Clinical Trial RESULTS

What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in December 2015 and ended in April 2016. It included 80 participants at 1 study site in the United States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.

Why was the research needed?
Researchers in your study tested 2 drugs called dapagliflozin and metformin combined in 1 pill to see if they had a similar effect on participants, regardless of which of the 2 different manufacturing plants the pill came from. Dapagliflozin works through the kidneys to treat type 2 diabetes by allowing the body to get rid of extra sugar. Metformin treats the same disease by affecting the liver and causing blood sugar in the body to be lowered.

Researchers wanted to compare the same doses of the 2 different drugs from the 2 different facilities to see if they had a similar effect on the participants. To do this, researchers gave the participants the same doses of these drugs from the 2 different facilities and studied the drugs’ effects.

Specific questions researchers wanted to answer were:
- Does a pill with 5 milligrams (mg) of dapagliflozin and 500 mg of metformin (5/500 mg) made in Mount Vernon, Indiana have a similar effect on healthy participants as a pill with the same drugs and dose made in Humacao, Puerto Rico?
- Does a pill with 10 mg dapagliflozin and 1000 mg of metformin (10/1000 mg) made in Mount Vernon have a similar effect on healthy participants as a pill with the same drugs and dose made in Humacao?
- What medical problems did participants have?
Your study had 80 healthy men and women in it, aged 18 to 55.

What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study with 2 parts. “Open-label” means that both the researchers and the participants knew what drug each participant took.

This was also a “crossover” study. This means that all participants received each treatment in their treatment group in a random order. 40 participants took dapagliflozin and metformin 5/500 mg tablets from both the Mount Vernon and Humacao facilities, with and without food, and 40 participants took dapagliflozin and metformin 10/1000 mg tablets from both facilities, with and without food.

What happened during the study?
This study had 2 parts.