Clinical Study Results

What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.

What medical problems did participants have during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during this study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. These medical problems are called "adverse reactions". An adverse reaction is considered "serious" when it is life threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. The websites listed at the end of this summary may have more information about the adverse reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.

How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during the study.
None of the participants died during the study.

What adverse reactions did the participants have?
There were 50.0% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 14 out of 28 participants.
None of the participants stopped taking tralokinumab because of an adverse reaction they had during the study.
The most common adverse reaction was swelling, redness, burning, or itching where the injection was given. This happened in 35.7% of participants. This was 10 out of 28 participants.
The adverse reactions that happened during the study were:
- Swelling, redness, burning, or itching where the injection was given: 35.7% (10 participants)
- Pain where the injection was given: 3.6% (1 participant)
- Fever: 3.6% (1 participant)
- Joint pain: 3.6% (1 participant)
- Feeling weak: 3.6% (1 participant)