The table below shows the different methods the researchers used to find out if dapagliflozin was helping the participants.


KCCQ-TSS: Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire – Total Symptom Score 
KCCQ-PLS: Kansas City Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire – Physical Limitation Score 
6MWD: 6 Minute Walk Distance 


What does it stand for?
KCCQ-TSS: Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire – Total Symptom Score 
KCCQ-PLS: Cardiomyopathy Questionnaire – Physical Limitation Score 
6MWD: 6 Minute Walk Distance 


What does it measure?
KCCQ-TSS: Overall heart failure symptoms 
KCCQ-PLS: Physical symptoms caused by heart failure 
6MWD: How far a person can walk in 6 minutes 


What does the test involve?
KCCQ-TSS: Answering 7 questions about overall heart failure symptoms 
KCCQ-PLS: Answering 6 questions about physical symptoms 
6MWD: The participant walks for 6 minutes and the study doctor measures how far they walked 


What do the scores mean?
The questionnaires are scored from 0 to 100. A higher score means fewer heart failure symptoms or less severe physical symptoms. The distance the participant walked is measured in meters, also called m. A longer distance means less impact of severe symptoms on the participant’s ability to walk 


When were these tests done during the study?
At study site visits or a phone call if a site visit was not possible due to the COVID-19 pandemic 


Which participants’ results were included?
The participant’s results were included if they had completed the tests at the start and end of the study, and before the COVID-19 pandemic started, or 6MWD at the start and end of the study, or died during the study 


How did the researchers use these test results in the study?
For all 3 tests, the study doctors compared the participants’ scores at the start of the study with their scores 16 weeks after starting study treatment. Then, they compared the results between the participants who took dapagliflozin and those who took a placebo. To do this, they used a type of average called a median. In a set of numbers, the median is the middle number between the lowest and highest numbers.