What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
What signs and symptoms did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the study doctors did tests and measurements before and after the participants got tezepelumab. The doctors did physical exams and tested the participants' blood and urine samples to check their overall health. They also did ECGs to check the participants' heart health. Overall, the study doctors did not think that there were any meaningful changes in the results of these tests and measurements.
The study doctors also kept track of the "adverse events" that the participants had. An adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a study. Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even if they do not think the adverse events might be related to the study drug.
Later in this document, there will be a summary of the adverse events that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. This section is a summary of all the adverse events, whether they might be related to the study drug or not. An adverse event is considered "serious" when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or the participant needs hospital care.
Adverse events may or may not be caused by the drug in the study. A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse event.
There were 1.5% of participants who stopped getting tezepelumab due to adverse events. This was 1 out of 65 participants.