Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was a "double-blind" study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
This study had 2 parts. All 4 participants were in both parts of the study. A computer program was used to randomly choose the order that each participant took each study treatment. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible. By the end of the study, all the participants had taken both study treatments.
In Part 1, the participants took either GFF or a placebo through an inhaler. A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take a study drug are actually caused by the study drug.
The participants took 2 puffs of the inhaler twice a day for 1 week. Doses of GFF were measured in micrograms, also called µg. The GFF inhaler had 14.4 µg of glycopyrronium and 9.6 µg of formoterol fumarate.
In Part 2, the participants took either GFF or a placebo through an inhaler. In this part of the study, the participants took the treatment that they did not take in Part 1. They took 2 puffs of the inhaler twice a day for 1 week.
What happened during the study?
Before the study, the participants visited the study site 2 times. At these visits, the doctors checked the participants' overall health and lungs to make sure they could join the study. If participants were able to join the study, the doctors may have asked them to stop taking certain medicines. This helped make sure any effects the researchers saw in the participants were due to the treatment in the study.
At the first visit, the doctors took a picture of each participant's heart using magnetic resonance imaging, also called MRI. The doctors used the MRI to measure the amount of blood in different parts of the heart.