What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
The results below are for the 30 out of 35 participants who completed both study treatments.
Did BFF MDI affect how much air the participants could breathe out compared with BFF DPI?
Overall, BFF delivered through either an MDI or a DPI increased the amount of air the participants could breathe out. The researchers found that the MDI and DPI worked equally well, and did not find a difference between the MDI and DPI in the amount of air the participants could breathe out.
To answer this question, the study doctors measured the amount of air the participants breathed out in 1 second. This was measured in liters, also called L. The study doctors measured the average amount of air breathed out after the participants took each of the study treatments for 1 week. Then, they compared these measurements to the average amount of air breathed out before the participants took the study treatments and calculated the average change. They compared the results from when the participants took BFF MDI with the results from when they took BFF DPI.
After 1 week of treatment, the amount of air that the participants breathed out in 1 second:
- Increased by 0.26L with BFF MDI
- Increased by 0.27L with BFF DPI
Overall, the difference between the 2 treatments was too small for the researchers to know if BFF MDI affected how much air the participants could breathe out compared with BFF DPI.