Clinical Study Results

Did the different treatments affect the participants in other ways?
Researchers wanted to know if the study treatment helped participants' COPD symptoms and their ability to do daily activities. To find out, the doctors asked the participants to complete a survey at each of their study visits.

At 12 weeks of treatment, the doctors compared the participants' survey answers to the answers from the first week. The doctors did this again over 24 weeks of treatment.

At 12 weeks and over 24 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that both 320 µg budesonide plus 9.6 µg formoterol fumarate and 160 µg budesonide plus 9.6 µg formoterol fumarate treatments helped improve participants' COPD symptoms and their ability to do daily activities compared with formoterol fumarate by itself.

Researchers also wanted to know if the study treatment helped prevent exacerbations and decrease the need to use rescue medicines over 24 weeks of treatment. An exacerbation is a worsening of COPD symptoms that needs to be treated with corticosteroids and/or antibiotics for at least 3 days, requires hospitalization, or results in death. Doctors kept track of the number of exacerbations that each participant had in the study and of how much rescue medicine each participant used each day. Researchers found that budesonide plus formoterol fumarate helped prevent exacerbations and reduce how often rescue medicine was needed.

What medical problems did participants have during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during this study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study medicines. These medical problems are called "adverse reactions". An adverse reaction is considered "serious" when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.

These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study medicines. A lot of research is needed to know whether a medicine causes an adverse reaction. The websites listed at the end of this summary may have more information about the adverse reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.

Some of the participants did not get any doses of study medicines or were not able to complete all study visits, so their information could not be used. Therefore, the researchers studied the medical problems for 1,843 of the 1,876 participants.

How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
There were 0.2% of participants who had serious adverse reactions during this study. This was 3 out of 1,843 participants. The only serious adverse reaction that happened to more than 1 participant was that their COPD symptoms got worse. This happened in 2 participants.