Clinical Study Results

The figure below shows how this study was done. 

Double-blind study: 1,864 participants 

Screening Treatment Follow-up 

2 visits 
6 visits and 5 phone calls 
1 phone call 

Doctors checked the health of participants. 

Participants took a lower dose of budesonide and formoterol fumarate together, a higher dose of budesonide and formoterol fumarate together, or formoterol fumarate by itself twice a day. 

Participants completed surveys about how they were feeling and had their lung function tested. 

about 2 weeks after the last treatment visit 

4 weeks 
Up to 52 weeks 

What were the results of the study? 

This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.

Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.

How did the treatments affect lung function of the participants? 

The researchers found that the participants who took either dose of budesonide and formoterol fumarate together had improved lung function compared with the participants who took formoterol fumarate by itself.

To answer this question, the researchers measured participants' lung function before and after they took the inhaler treatments. This was measured in milliliters, or mL for short.

Lung function at 12 weeks: 

- The participants who took 320 µg of budesonide and 9.6 µg of formoterol fumarate together had increased lung function before taking a treatment dose than participants who took formoterol fumarate by itself. They were able to exhale an average of 34 mL more air than participants who took formoterol fumarate by itself.

- The participants who took 160 µg of budesonide and 9.6 µg of formoterol fumarate together had increased lung function before taking a treatment dose than participants who took formoterol fumarate by itself. They were able to exhale an average of 32 mL more air than participants who took formoterol fumarate by itself.