Clinical Study Results
Research Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB
Drug Studied: Epoetin alfa
Study Title: A study to learn how much of different forms of epoetin alfa are in the blood of healthy participants over time

Thank you!
Thank you to the participants who took part in the clinical trial to study different forms of epoetin alfa.
AstraZeneca AB sponsored this study and thinks it is important to share the results. An independent non-profit organization called CISCRP helped prepare this summary of the study results for you.
If you participated in the study and have questions about the results, please speak with the doctor or staff at your study site.

What is happening with the study now?
The study started in June 2018 and ended in November 2018. The sponsor reviewed the data collected when the study ended and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
The study included 53 participants in Germany.

Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for ways to treat anemia in people with chronic kidney disease. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
Anemia develops when there are not enough red blood cells in the blood to carry oxygen throughout the body. People with anemia can feel tired or weak because their cells are not getting enough oxygen. Anemia often occurs in people with chronic kidney disease. This is because the kidney is not making enough of a protein called erythropoietin, which helps make red blood cells.
Epoetin alfa is a drug similar to erythropoietin that helps the body make more red blood cells. There are different forms of epoetin alfa available in Europe and in the United States to treat anemia.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if similar amounts of the different forms of epoetin alfa were in the blood of healthy participants over time.

The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
- Was the amount of the US and European forms of epoetin alfa in the blood similar over time?
- Was the amount of two different batches of the US form of epoetin alfa in the blood similar over time?
- What medical problems did the participants have during the study?