Did the participants feel that treatment with acalabrutinib, when given with obinutuzumab, rituximab, or venetoclax, affected their symptoms and quality of life?
During the trial, participants were asked to complete questionnaires about how they felt their treatment was affecting their symptoms and quality of life. Through these questionnaires, the researchers wanted to learn whether the participants thought their symptoms were getting better or worse. They also wanted to learn about the effect that the treatment was having on participants' daily lives, as well as the social and emotional effects. Questionnaire answers helped the researchers get a score of the participants' quality of life. The higher the score, the better the participant felt their symptoms were. With a higher score, there may have been a smaller effect of treatment on the participants' daily life.
The participants in Group 1 and Group 2 felt that treatment with acalabrutinib with obinutuzumab did not lower their quality of life and make their symptoms worse after 2 years of treatment.
The participants in Group 3 felt that treatment with acalabrutinib with rituximab and venetoclax did not lower their quality of life and make their symptoms worse after 2 years of treatment.
The participants in Group 4 felt that treatment with acalabrutinib with obinutuzumab and venetoclax did not lower their quality of life and make their symptoms worse after 2 years of treatment.
How did the participants' overall health change during the trial?
To answer this question, the doctors did tests and measurements of the participants' health throughout the trial. The doctors did physical exams and tested the participants' blood and urine samples to check their overall health. They also did ECGs to check the participants' heart health. The researchers compared the participants' results during the trial to their results from the start of the trial.
Overall, the researchers found that these tests and measurements showed small changes to the participants' health during this trial. But, the researchers did not consider these changes to be meaningful.
-