ABP 501 (AMJEVITA™ or AMGEVITA™) is another injected biologic. It also attaches to
TNF to keep it from triggering the immune system. ABP 501 was created to be highly
similar to adalimumab (HUMIRA®). Once a new biologic product has been tested and is
shown to be highly similar to a reference biologic product, it is called a “biosimilar.” In
clinical studies like this one, ABP 501 is called an investigational medicine, and
adalimumab is called the reference product:
Biologic Biosimilar
(Reference Product) (Investigational Medicine)
Complex mixture from human, animal, Similar structure and quality features as
or microscopic living sources the biologic
Approved for use by a country’s health Must be highly similar in makeup,
authority safety, and function to be approved for
use
Has been shown in studies to improve No clinically meaningful differences devorppA
specific health problems compared to results of the biologic
Has been tested for safety in clinical No clinically meaningful differences in
studies safety results compared to biologic
Adalimumab ABP 501
was the reference product in this study was tested as a biosimilar
in this study
This was a phase 3 study, which is usually the latest stage for testing investigational
medicines in humans before they are approved for use. The main purpose of the study
was to compare RA symptom improvement in participants who were given ABP 501 to
those who were given the adalimumab reference product, 24 weeks after starting
treatment.
4. What Patients/People Were Included in This Study?
Who took part in the study?
This study included 526 adult men and women with moderate to severe RA. Of the 526
participants, 426 participants (81%, or about 8 out of 10) were women and
100 participants (19%, or about 2 out of 10) were men. Participants ranged in age from
21 to 80 years old. The average age of all participants was about 56 years old.
The study took place at 92 study centers across Europe, North America, and Latin
America. The numbers of participants in each country are shown in the map below:
3