Clinical Study Results
chance (“randomized”) using an automated computer system. This is like flipping a
coin or drawing numbers out of a hat.
This was a “double-blinded” study, which means that the participants and the study
doctors could only find out whether the participant was given ABP 710 or infliximab
after the study was over. This was done to make sure the study results were not
influenced in any way.
Participants were examined by study doctors at each visit to the study center. At
some of these visits, participants answered questions on several different forms
about their RA symptoms. About half way through the study, some participants were
randomly chosen to be switched to receive a different treatment from what they
started. 4 weeks after the treatment finished, all participants had a final checkup to
see how they were feeling. This study had 2 main parts:
Part 1 – First 22 Weeks of Treatment
devorppA
After being randomly assigned to a treatment group, participants were given either
ABP 710 or the infliximab reference product as through an IV into their vein. The
amount of medicine (the dose) was calculated for each participant based on his or
her weight. Participants were given their first treatment at their first visit. They
continued their same treatment again at week 2, week 6, and once every 8 weeks
after that for 22 weeks.
Part 2 – After 22 Weeks of Treatment
After 22 weeks of treatment, participants who started in the infliximab group were
randomly separated into different treatment groups again. These participants had an
equal chance (about 50/50) to either stay on infliximab or be switched to ABP 710
until the study was over.
Participants who started in the ABP 710 group continued for another 24 weeks on
ABP 710. Treatment during the final 24 weeks was also blinded. Participants and
study doctors did not know who was being given ABP 710 and who was being given
infliximab. Participants received their assigned treatment once every 8 weeks for
another 24 weeks.
5