2. General Information About the Clinical Trial
Where and when was the study done?
 This study took place in Belgium, Germany, United Kingdom, and United States.
 The study began in March 2017 and ended in October 2018.
 The study was completed as planned.
Why was the study done?
Chronic kidney disease (also called “CKD”) is a serious health problem where the
kidneys are diseased or damaged. The kidneys are not able to control the amount of
water flowing through the body or filter waste out of the blood like they should. CKD will
continue to get worse over time. Once the kidneys fail, treatment includes hemodialysis.
Hemodialysis uses a machine to filter the blood like healthy kidneys would. About
2 million people around the world need hemodialysis.
Patients with CKD often have a problem called secondary hyperparathyroidism (also
called “SHPT”). SHPT is caused by too much of a certain hormone (called parathyroid
devorppA
hormone or “PTH”). PTH controls how much calcium is in the blood. Calcium is an
important mineral our body needs for a healthy heart, bones, nervous system, and
hormone control. PTH causes minerals, like calcium, to leave the bones and enter the
blood. About 88% of hemodialysis patients will get SHPT.
Standard care for patients with SHPT may include vitamin D and medicines that remove
extra salts and minerals from the blood if there is too much of it. Etelcalcetide is a
medicine that is approved by the health agencies in some countries to treat SHPT in
adults with CKD on hemodialysis. Etelcalcetide has not been tested or approved for
children or teenagers with SHPT. When a medication is used in a study like this one, it
is called an “investigational medicine.”
This was a phase 1 study conducted in participants with SHPT as part of the early
process to develop new medicines for children and teenagers. Researchers looked at
how this investigational medicine works in the body and the impact that it has in the
body, including side effects. This study did not test if etelcalcetide improves health.
This was called an “open-label” study. It was “open-label” because all of the study
doctors and participants knew the participants were taking etelcalcetide.
2