At a glance
Why was the research needed?
Researchers were looking for a better way to treat people hospitalized with COVID-19. Researchers
look at the results of many studies to understand if a medicine might work for a specific condition.
It takes a lot of people in many studies all around the world to advance medical science.
Who took part in the study?
Adults aged 18 years or over who were hospitalized with COVID-19 were
8
eligible to take part. A total of 515 people took part across 8 countries.
515 Countries
What study medicine did participants receive?
There were 3 investigational medications studied:
apremilast, lanadelumab-IV, and zilucoplan.
Participants were assigned to 1 of the 3
Apremilast Lanadelumab-IV Zilucoplan investigational medications or a placebo.
A placebo looks like an investigational medication, but has no actual medicine in it.
Placebo is used to better see the effects of the investigational medications being tested.
Any of the 3 investigational medications or the placebo may be referred to as the
Placebo
“study medicine”.
All participants also received the standard treatment (standard of care) for COVID-19 that
was available locally.
What were the main results of the study?
The main question the researchers wanted to answer was:
• D id any of the 3 investigational medications affect the time it took for people in the
hospital to recover from COVID-19?
Researchers also wanted to see if, after about a month from starting in the study, any of the
3 investigational medications affected the number of people who:
• i mproved or were able to leave the hospital
• h ad improved, been released from the hospital, and who no longer needed extra oxygen
• died.
Overall, researchers found that none of the investigational medications helped people any more
than the placebo.
What was learned about safety?
Some participants had unwanted health problems that may have been related to the study
medicines. These were called adverse reactions.
Researchers think most of the unwanted health problems reported by people were not related
to the investigational medications.
This is because the unwanted health problems seen in people who took 1 of the investigational
medicines were similar to those seen in people who took the placebo. They were also similar to
those seen in people with COVID-19 who were not in the study.
More details about the results of the study are included on the following pages.
2