What happened during the study?
The study started in November 2020 and ended in August 2021.
Before each participant received study medicine, the study doctor and study staff checked to
ensure the study was suitable for them.
Participants were checked daily while they were
in the hospital. For participants who went home,
they had up to 3 visits by video call. These visits
x3
happened about 2 weeks, 4 weeks, and 2 months
Hospital Home after they got the first dose of study medicine.
The researchers had planned for the study to last longer and enroll more participants, but:
• L anadelumab-IV was difficult to administer to some participants, which made it hard
to keep people from knowing whether they received the investigational medicine or
the placebo.
• A premilast was not helping the participants as much as expected.
• I t was difficult to enroll enough people who were hospitalized with COVID-19 into the
zilucoplan group in a timely manner. The sponsor and their industry partners also had
some difficulty finding people to enroll in the other medication groups.
Because of the issues noted above, researchers decided to end the study early for all of the
investigational medications.
Amgen and its industry partners reviewed the study data collected during the study and
created a full report of the results for each investigational medication. This document is
a summary of those reports.
What were the main results of the study?
This section is about the main results from each investigational medication in this study. The
websites listed at the end of this summary may have additional information about the results
of the study.
This summary only shows the results from this one study. Other studies may have different
results. Because this study ended early, the number of participants in each study medicine
group was smaller than originally expected.
Therefore, the only conclusion that could be drawn was that apremilast did not help people
with COVID-19 as much as expected.
No formal conclusions should be drawn from the other results of the study.
6