• had their cancer get worse with their other treatments, or if their treatment made
them too sick to continue it
• had not been given their cancer treatments in the last 2-3 weeks
• did not have cancer that spread to the brain
• had healthy enough blood, kidney, liver, and digestive activity for treatment
5. Which Medicines Were Studied?
What investigational medicines were studied?
Researchers looked at participants who were treated with best supportive care and those
who were given supportive care plus Vectibix. Best supportive care was a mix of
treatments that study doctors and the hospital thought would be best to control pain and
fight infections.
Supportive care included pain medicines, surgery, radiation treatment for bone tumors,
and getting blood from a donor. Supportive care did not include chemotherapy or any
other tumor-fighting medicines. All participants in this study were given the best
supportive care for their cancer.
About half of the participants in this study (1 in 2) were also given Vectibix every 2 weeks
devorppA
along with their supportive care. The amount of Vectibix (or “dose”) was decided by the
participant’s weight and was given into the vein through a needle (called intravenous or
“IV” treatment). In this study, participants had an equal chance of being treated with
Vectibix plus supportive care or best supportive care only.
Neither the participants nor the study doctor could choose who got Vectibix treatment.
Participants agreed to be put into 1 of the 2 treatment groups by chance (“randomized”).
This is like flipping a coin or drawing numbers out of a hat.
About every 8 weeks, each participant had tests like an x-ray (called “CT scan” or “MRI”)
to see if their tumor got smaller, stayed the same, or started growing again.
Participants taking Vectibix continued their treatments until they chose to stop or if their
cancer started growing again. Participants in the supportive care group also left the
study if their cancer started getting worse. 299 participants (79%, or about 8 out of
10 participants) stopped because their cancer started getting worse.
4