Page 1 of 7
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to compare a combination of dolutegravir and lamivudine with
current antiretroviral regimen in adults living with HIV.
Full Scientific Title: A phase III, randomised, multicentre, open-label, non-inferiority
study evaluating the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of switching to
dolutegravir/lamivudine fixed dose combination in HIV-1 infected adults who are
virologically suppressed (SALSA Study).
ViiV Healthcare Study Number: 208090
Who sponsored this study?
ViiV Healthcare
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in November 2019. Enrolment was closed, but the study was ongoing
when this summary was finalised.
What was the main objective of this study?
HIV (human immunodeficiency virus type 1) damages the body’s defence system
(immune system). It weakens the ability to fight infections and increases the risk of
developing diseases when not treated effectively. The HIV has ribonucleic acid (RNA) as
its genetic material. Doctors can check the amount of HIV in the body (viral load) by
measuring HIV RNA levels in the blood.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of ViiV Healthcare as the source of the data be
given. ViiV Healthcare/GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights
held by ViiV Healthcare/GSK are waived, licensed or otherwise affected.