Page 1 of 6
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summary of the study. A link to the summary is
provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to learn about the effect and safety of dolutegravir and lamivudine
in participants between 12 to less than 18 years of age with newly diagnosed HIV.
Full Scientific Title: An open-label, single arm study to evaluate the week 48 efficacy
and safety of a two-drug regimen of dolutegravir/lamivudine (DTG/3TC) as a fixed dose
combination (FDC), in antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naive HIV-1-infected adolescents,
≥12 to <18 years of age who weigh at least 25 kg.
ViiV Healthcare Study Number: 205861
Who sponsored this study?
ViiV Healthcare
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in April 2019. Enrolment was closed, but the study was ongoing when
this summary was finalised.
What was the main objective of this study?
Human immunodeficiency virus Type 1 (HIV) damages the body’s immune system. It
weakens the ability to fight infections and increases the risk of developing diseases
when not treated effectively. By measuring the genetic material called ribonucleic acid
(RNA) levels of HIV in the blood, doctors can check the amount of HIV in the body (viral
load).
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of ViiV Healthcare as the source of the data be
given. ViiV Healthcare/GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the
fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights
held by ViiV Healthcare/GSK are waived, licensed or otherwise affected.