A certain kind of germ called Streptococcus pneumoniae (also called the "pneumo" germ) can cause serious diseases including infection of the lung (pneumonia), brain lining (meningitis), blood (bacteremia), and ear (otitis). These infections can be very serious in children less than 2 years old. 
This study is about Prevenar 13, a vaccine that is also called 13vPnC. A vaccine is a kind of medicine that helps a person's body fight an infection. The Prevenar 13 vaccine helps people fight infections caused by the "pneumo" germ. The Prevenar 13 vaccine is part of the nurse's injection that every infant in The Gambia gets when they are 2, 3, and 4 months old. 
Usually, each injection of the vaccine is in its own single-dose syringe or in a single-dose vial. Another way to provide the vaccine is to put enough vaccine for several injections into 1 vial. This is called a multi-dose vial. When the vaccine is needed, a single dose is taken from the multi-dose vial and put into a syringe. Putting the vaccine into a multi-dose vial can make the vaccine less expensive and easier to send to the people who need it. But the multi-dose vaccine must be handled carefully between uses to make sure that the vaccine is safe. 
A preservative was added to the multi-dose vial of Prevenar 13 to keep the vaccine from going bad between uses. This preservative is already used in several other vaccines. The Sponsor needed to compare the vaccines from the multi-dose vial and the single-dose syringe. They needed to be sure that the vaccines worked the same way and were both safe to use. 
There were four questions that the Sponsor wanted to answer: 
1. Did the vaccine from the multi-dose vial work as well as the vaccine from the single-dose syringe? 
2. There are many types of "pneumo" germs. Prevenar 13 helps protect people from 13 types of the germ. Did the vaccine from the multi-dose vial work as well as the vaccine from the single-dose syringe for each of these types of "pneumo" germs? 
3. Any medical treatment can cause health problems. What medical problems did infants have during the study? 
4. Were there any serious health problems?
This study included 500 infants in The Gambia. The infants who took part in this study were healthy and were between 6 and 10 weeks old when the study started. The study was explained to the parents, and each of the parents could choose whether they wanted their infant to be part of the study. 
The infants received all other vaccines that were recommended for them in The Gambia. In addition, 250 of the infants received Prevenar 13 from a single-dose syringe, and the other 250 infants received Prevenar 13 from a multi-dose vial. All of the infants received their first dose of Prevenar 13 at about 2 months of age. 
