Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a virus that can cause an infection with symptoms 
that are similar to a bad cold, such as cough, fever, sore throat, and runny nose. This 
infection can be very serious in infants and young children.
This study is about a vaccine called the "respiratory syncytial virus stabilized prefusion 
F subunit vaccine", or RSVpreF. A vaccine is used to help prevent infection by 
helping the body to fight off germs. RSVpreF may be able to help prevent infections 
caused by RSV. 
After a vaccine is injected into a person's body, the body responds to help fight 
infections and prevent diseases. The response to vaccines includes making 
"antibodies", which are proteins that fight infections and help to prevent diseases.  
This is part of the body's "immune response".
The Sponsor of this study is developing RSVpreF for use in pregnant women.  
During pregnancy, vaccinated mothers may pass on antibodies to their baby. So, 
RSVpreF may be able to help to prevent infections caused by RSV in infants if it is 
given to the mother while she is pregnant.
RSVpreF is an investigational vaccine, which means that it has not been approved for 
general use and it is not yet known if it will protect against disease caused by RSV.
The study participants may have received RSVpreF, Tdap vaccine (a vaccine against 
diseases called tetanus, diphtheria, and pertussis), and/or placebo. A placebo looks 
like the study vaccine but does not contain any active ingredients. The purpose of 
this study was to learn about the safety of RSVpreF when given alone or together 
with Tdap, and to learn whether giving RSVpreF and Tdap together changes how well 
either vaccine works.
090177e19593bb30\Approved\Approved On: 20-Nov-2020 15:21 (GMT)
Researchers asked these main questions:
- One month after vaccination, did participants who received Tdap and RSVpreF
have a comparable level of Tdap antibodies to those who received Tdap and 
placebo?
- One month after vaccination, did participants who received Tdap and RSVpreF
have a comparable level of RSV antibodies to those who received RSVpreF
and placebo?
To answer these questions, the researchers measured the amount of antibodies in  
participants' blood 1 month after being vaccinated.
To learn about the safety of RSVpreF when given together with Tdap or placebo, 
researchers asked these questions:  
- What percentage of participants had "local reactions" (redness, swelling, or 
pain at the injection site) within 7 days after vaccination?
- What percentage of participants had "systemic events" (fever, headache, 
tiredness, muscle pain, joint pain, nausea, vomiting, or diarrhea) within 7 days 
after vaccination?
- What percentage of participants had medical problems within 1 month after 
vaccination?
- What percentage of participants had serious medical problems or medical 
problems that required treatment from a doctor during the study?