Candida is a type of fungus that is normally found in small amounts in the human body. Sometimes, too much Candida can grow in the body and cause health problems. This is known as a Candida infection.
The name "invasive Candida infection" is used when the infection has spread to other parts of the body through the bloodstream. Certain medicines or diseases, like cancer, may make a child more likely to develop an invasive Candida infection.
Anidulafungin is a medicine that is currently used to treat Candida infections in adults. This study was designed to learn more about using anidulafungin to treat Candida infections in children. Anidulafungin has not been approved for use in children, as it is still being studied.
The main purpose of this study was to learn more about the safety of anidulafungin in children with invasive Candida infection. The researchers wanted to answer this question:
• Did the children in this study have any new or worsening medical problems? If so, what new or worsening medical problems did the children have?
The researchers also wanted to learn more about how anidulafungin works to treat invasive Candida infection in children. The researchers wanted to answer this question:
• How many children were cured or had an improvement in Candida infection?
This study was for children who were diagnosed with invasive Candida infection, or who were at high risk for getting an invasive Candida infection. The children in this study were at least 1 month old, but younger than 18 years old when the study started. First, the children were checked by the study doctor to make sure they were a good fit for the study. This was called "screening". 

The children were grouped by age: 
- Group 1 (19 children): At least 1 month old, but younger than 2 years old 
- Group 2 (19 children): At least 2 years old, but younger than 5 years old 
- Group 3 (30 children): At least 5 years old, but younger than 18 years old 

All the children in this study were given anidulafungin by IV (a needle in the vein), and the doses were based on each child's weight. On the first day of treatment, children were given 3 milligrams (mg) of anidulafungin per kilogram (kg) of weight. From the second day of treatment onwards, children were given 1.5 mg of anidulafungin per kg of weight. Children were supposed to receive anidulafungin for at least 10 days if they had a Candida infection and at least 5 days if they were at high risk of getting a Candida infection. 

After the anidulafungin treatment, the study doctor may have decided to switch some of the children to another antifungal medicine called fluconazole, given by mouth, to continue treatment of the Candida infection. All children could receive up to 35 days of anidulafungin and up to 49 days of total treatment (anidulafungin + fluconazole). This was an "open-label" study, which means that the researchers, the children, and the children's parents/caregivers knew which medicines were being given.  

Safety was carefully considered throughout the study. The study doctors examined each child, did blood/urine tests, and watched for any medical problems. The study doctors also followed up with the children for 6 weeks after their last dose of study treatment. 

While children were only in the study for up to 13 weeks (treatment plus follow-up), the entire study took about 9 years to complete. Children joined the study at one of 26 locations in 10 countries (Brazil, Canada, Greece, Italy, Republic of Korea, Russia, Spain, Taiwan, United Kingdom, and United States). The first child joined the study on 27 February 2009 and the last child finished the study on 14 February 2018. A total of 30 girls and 38 boys joined the study.

Patients were supposed to receive study treatment for up to 35 days and come to two follow-up visits at week 2 and week 6 of the study. Of the 68 children who started the study, 58 children (85%) completed it. Ten (10) children (15%) did not finish the study by their choice or because they passed away. The study doctors determined that none of these deaths were related to the study treatment. 

When the study ended in February 2018, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.