Lung cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the lungs. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. Avastin® is one medicine that is currently used to treat NSCLC. Avastin may stop cancer tumors from growing. PF-06439535 is a medicine that is made to be similar to Avastin, and is being studied as a possible treatment for many cancers. In this specific study, Avastin was studied for NSCLC. The purpose of making a medicine similar to Avastin is to give patients another treatment option. A committee of doctors have reviewed the data and recommended that PF-06439535 be approved for use in Europe. PF-06439535 is still being tested and has not been approved for use in other regions.
The main goal of this study was to determine if PF-06439535 works in a similar way to Avastin. Patients in this study also received 2 other medicines for NSCLC, called paclitaxel and carboplatin. Researchers wanted to know:
At week 19 of the study, how many patients who took PF-06439535 would have a reduction in tumor size (tumor getting smaller), compared to patients who took Avastin?
This study compared two groups of patients taking either PF-06439535 plus paclitaxel and carboplatin or Avastin plus paclitaxel and carboplatin, to determine if PF-06439535 works in a similar way to Avastin. The study included adult patients with either newly diagnosed or recurring NSCLC. For patients with recurring NSCLC, the last systemic treatment (a treatment that affects the whole body) should have been received at least 6 months ago. The patients and researchers did not know who took which medicines. This is known as a “blinded” study.
Patients were screened by the study doctor to make sure they were a good fit to join the study. This was known as the “screening period”, which lasted up to 28 days. Next, patients were assigned to receive either PF-06439535 plus paclitaxel and carboplatin or Avastin plus paclitaxel and carboplatin. Patients were assigned to each group by chance alone. Putting people into groups by chance helps to make the groups more even to compare.
