Prostate cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the prostate, which is a small, walnut-sized gland that lies at the base of the bladder in men and is part of the male reproductive system.
Enzalutamide is a prescription medicine that is approved to treat men with prostate cancer that no longer responds to a medical or surgical treatment that lowers testosterone. Enzalutamide works by interfering with the connections between androgens (a type of hormone that plays a role in male traits and reproductive) and androgen receptors (a protein in the body that attaches to androgens). This may help to slow the growth of prostate cancer.
The main goal of this study was to learn more about the use of enzalutamide in patients with prostate cancer that was spreading to other parts of the body, despite receiving chemotherapy and treatment to block androgens. Chemotherapy is a type of medicine used to destroy cancer cells. Researchers wanted to answer this research question:
• How long did patients survive after receiving enzalutamide, compared to placebo?
This study compared two groups of patients to find out how long patients would survive after receiving enzalutamide, compared to placebo. A placebo does not have any active medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. The study included patients who had prostate cancer that was spreading to other parts of the body, despite receiving one or two prior chemotherapy regimens, including at least one regimen with a chemotherapy medicine called docetaxel. These patients were also receiving treatment to block androgens. 
Patients in this study were assigned to receive either enzalutamide or placebo. The patients and researchers did not know who took enzalutamide and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. Patients were assigned to each treatment group by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study. Putting people into groups by chance helps make the groups more similar so they can be compared. 
First, patients were checked by a study doctor to make sure they met the requirements to join the study. This was called the screening period. During the treatment period, patients received the following treatments:
- Group 1: 800 patients received enzalutamide at a dose of 160 milligrams, taken by mouth each day
- Group 2: 399 patients received placebo, taken by mouth each day
During the treatment period, patients came to study visits every four weeks for the first 49 weeks, then every 12 weeks thereafter. At the study visits, imaging tests were done and patients were checked by study doctors to determine if prostate cancer was getting worse (known as prostate cancer “progression”). Patients were also asked about any medical problems they were having.
Patients came to a follow-up visit 30 days after their last dose of enzalutamide or placebo (after prostate cancer progression). Next, patients who were receiving placebo had the option to enter the “open-label extension” part of the study. During this part of the study, all patients received enzalutamide and were followed-up every 12 weeks. “Open-label” means that the patients and researchers knew which medicine the patients were taking.
The figure on the following page shows what happened during this study. The amount of time that patients were in the study varied, but the entire study took more than eight years to complete, including both the main part of the study and the open-label extension part of the study. The sponsor ran this study at 156 locations in 15 countries in Africa, Australia, Europe, North America, and South America. It began 30 September 2009 and ended 02 November 2017. 1,199 men joined the study and received study treatment. All patients were between the ages of 41 and 92 years.
Patients were to continue receiving study treatment until it was confirmed that their prostate cancer had gotten worse, and they were scheduled to begin taking another treatment for prostate cancer. Of the 1,199 patients who started the study, 250 patients (21%) were still receiving study treatment when the main part of the study ended in September 2011. 949 patients (79%) stopped taking study treatment by their choice, because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study, because they had a medical problem, because prostate cancer got worse, or because they passed away. A total of 109 patients from the enzalutamide group and 50 patients from the placebo group entered the open-label extension part of the study.
