Chronic low back pain is pain in the lower back that lasts for 3 months or more. 
Doctors can prescribe medicines to manage this pain, but these medicines may not 
work well for all patients, so researchers are looking for additional treatment options. 
Tanezumab was evaluated in patients with chronic low back pain. Tanezumab is not 
approved for use in patients.
The main purpose of this study was to learn more about how tanezumab works to 
treat chronic low back pain symptoms. The researchers wanted to answer this 
question:
- Did patients who received tanezumab have an improvement in chronic low 
back pain symptoms, compared to patients who received placebo?
A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine.
This study compared four groups of patients to find out if patients taking tanezumab would have an improvement in chronic low back pain symptoms. To answer the research question, the researchers asked patients to rate their lower back pain each day, on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). The study included adult patients with chronic lower back pain that has been going on at least 3 months, who did not get adequate pain relief from certain other pain medicines. These patients had a back pain rating of 5 or more, on a scale from 0 to 10, at the beginning of the study. 
First, patients were screened by the study doctor to make sure they were appropriate to join the study. This was known as the “screening period”, which lasted up to 37 days. During this time, X-rays of the knees, hip joints, and shoulder joints were taken, and lower back pain was assessed.
- The next part of the study was the “treatment period”, which lasted up to 56 weeks. The treatments used in this study included: Tanezumab 5 mg, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; Tanezumab 10 mg, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; A placebo that looks like tanezumab, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; A medicine called tramadol that is used to treat chronic lower back pain, given as a pill by mouth every day; A placebo pill that looks like the tramadol pill, taken by mouth every day.
