What is atopic dermatitis? 
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare-ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time. 
What is crisaborole? 
Crisaborole is a medicine that is used to treat atopic dermatitis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment twice a day. Crisaborole may improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to symptoms such as redness. 
What was the purpose of this study? 
The purpose of the study was to see if the symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were reduced when crisaborole ointment was applied twice a day to the affected area compared to when a vehicle ointment was used. The vehicle ointment does not have any medicine in it, but it looks and feels just like the crisaborole ointment. Crisaborole is a licensed treatment for atopic dermatitis in adults and children in some countries (United States, Canada, China, Israel, and Australia). This study was conducted in China and Japan to allow data to be collected in these countries. 
Researchers wanted to know: 
Did the symptoms of atopic dermatitis in adults and children 2 years and older reduce in areas of skin treated with crisaborole, and did the condition get better compared to areas of skin treated with vehicle ointment?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested crisaborole ointment on adults and children 2 years and older in China and Japan to find out if participants who were treated with crisaborole had fewer symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis compared to participants who used a vehicle ointment. 
Participants went to the study center to be screened by the study doctor to make sure they were able to join the study. This was known as the "screening period" and this lasted up to 35 days. Participants then entered the treatment period, which started on Day 1 and lasted 28 days. During the treatment period, participants (or their parents or caregivers if the participant was a child) were to apply the ointment twice a day to an area or areas of skin affected by the atopic dermatitis. Treatment was to be continued even if the participant had no symptoms of atopic dermatitis.
The study participants and researchers did not know who used the crisaborole ointment and who used the vehicle ointment. The study staff who looked at the participant’s skin to assess how the treatment was working also did not know what treatment each participant had been given. This is known as an “double-blinded” study. Study participants were assigned to treatment with crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment by chance alone. This was done to make sure that the study results were not influenced in any way.
Each participant visited the study center on Day 1, Day 8, Day 15, Day 22, and Day 29 for the study doctors to assess their atopic dermatitis and their general health. Participants were not treated on or after Day 29 but were to remain in the study until Day 60. Participants then received a follow-up telephone call on Day 36 and on Day 60 (or a month after their last treatment if the participant stopped treatment early). This telephone call was to check for any medical problems. This was considered the end of the study.
The following figure shows what happened during this study.
Where did this study take place?
The Sponsor ran this study at 38 locations in China and Japan .
When did this study take place?
It began on 27 July 2020 and ended on 08 September 2021.
Who participated in this study?
The study included participants who had mild to moderate atopic dermatitis and were adults or children 2 years and older.
A total of 205 men and boys participated
A total of 186 women and girls participated
All participants were between the ages of 2 and 71 years.
Participants were to be treated for 28 days. Of the 391 participants who were treated with crisaborole or vehicle ointment, 353 out of the 391 participants, or 90%, finished study treatment. There were 345 out of the 391 participants, or 88%, who finished the follow-up part of the study (some of these participants stopped treatment early while others completed the study treatment part).
