"Persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn" (PPHN) is a serious condition that can affect the breathing of newborn infants and prevent them from getting enough "oxygen". Oxygen is a gas that is present in the air and all human and animals need this gas to live and grow. The main symptoms of PPHN include fast breathing and increased heart rate as well as a blue tint to the skin, flaring of the nostrils in the nose, and sometimes the baby can make a grunting noise. PPHN is seen in about 2 births in every 1000 births, and around 1 in 10 babies who have breathing problems will have PPHN.
The normal treatment for PPHN is to give babies nitric oxide gas to breathe. This inhaled nitric oxide only helps 2 out of every 3 babies to get enough oxygen. If the inhaled nitric oxide doesn't help the baby, the next step for doctors is to try "extracorporeal membrane oxygenation" or ECMO. ECMO is a way of getting oxygen into the baby's blood with a machine and can help if the lungs and/or heart aren't working properly. The lungs are air sacs that fill with oxygen-containing air, and the lungs are used to get oxygen into the blood.
Sometimes babies with PPHN will pass away even if they receive treatment with inhaled nitric oxide and/or ECMO. Other babies will survive, but they may have developmental problems that make it hard for them to grow, learn things, and hear sounds. New treatment options are needed to help the heart and lungs get enough oxygen into the baby's blood.
Revatio® (sildenafil citrate) is a medicine that can help blood vessels in the lungs relax. By doing this, the amount of blood that can flow to and from the lungs in these blood vessels is increased, which may help get oxygen to where it is needed. The researchers did this study to see if sildenafil given by infusion along with inhaled nitric oxide was able to help improve breathing in babies with PPHN or babies with hypoxic respiratory failure (HRF) who are likely to get PPHN. In an infusion, the medicine is slowly dripped from a bag into a tube that is connected to a needle, which has been injected or pushed through a patient's skin into a vein. The vein then carries the medicine in the blood around the body.
This study compared two groups of patients to find out if patients with Persistent Pulmonary Hypertension of the Newborn (PPHN) or at risk of getting PPHN who received an infusion of sildenafil compared with patients given a placebo had: a lower treatment failure rate, and inhaled nitric oxide therapy for a shorter amount of time. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. Treatment failure was said to have occurred if the patient needed additional treatment for their PPHN or if they needed Extracorporeal Membrane Oxygenation (ECMO), or if the patient passed away. 
The study included patients who were four days old or younger and who had PPHN or Hypoxic Respiratory Failure (HRF) and who were at risk of getting PPHN. The PPHN could be of no known cause or could be due to meconium aspiration syndrome (breathing in fecal matter produced by the baby while in the womb), sepsis (blood poisoning caused by bacteria) or pneumonia (infection in the lungs caused by bacteria or a virus). 
The patients and researchers did not know who was given sildenafil and who was given placebo. This is known as a blinded study. Volunteers were assigned to each group by chance alone. This is done to make the groups more similar, which makes comparing the groups more fair. 
While patients were only in the main study for up to six weeks, this part of the study took over five and a half years to complete. Follow-up is continuing for an additional one and two years and this phase of the study is ongoing. The sponsor ran this study at 25 locations in 11 countries in Europe and North America. It began on August 05, 2013, and ended on December 31, 2019. A total of 33 boys and 26 girls participated. All patients were four days old or younger. 
