Some women with breast cancer have high levels of a certain protein receptor on the surface of their cancer cells. This protein is called HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2). A cell with too many HER2 receptors is stimulated to grow and multiply too fast and can become a cancer. When women with breast cancer have too much of this protein, their cancer is called "HER2-positive".
Trastuzumab is an approved drug for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive cancer and has been available for patient use by prescription for several years. The name for trastuzumab, which is approved for sale, is Herceptin®. PF-05280014 was the investigational drug in this study. An investigational drug is one that is not approved for sale.
Researchers think that PF-05280014 works like Herceptin® in the body. Herceptin® is an antibody, which is a type of protein. Herceptin® binds to the HER2 receptor on the surface of cells. By attaching to the HER2 receptor, this medicine can block the signals that cause the cells to grow and multiply.
Patients who were in this study received either PF-05280014 or Herceptin® in combination with Taxotere® and carboplatin. Taxotere® and carboplatin are standard chemotherapy treatments for breast cancer. They were used in this study because they are commonly given to patients by doctors for the treatment of breast cancer. In this study, women were given these medicines as a first step to shrink the tumor before surgery (neoadjuvant). All women in this study were planned to have surgery after treatment.
090177e18f226adc\Approved\Approved On: 27-Aug-2018 02:45 (GMT)
This study compared two groups of patients. Researchers wanted to find out if PF-05280014 worked similarly to Herceptin® in patients with breast cancer. This study included adult women who had newly diagnosed, early breast cancer, did not receive prior treatment for their breast cancer, planned to get surgery for their breast cancer tumor after chemotherapy. The patients and researchers did not know who took PF-05280014 and who took Herceptin®. This is known as a “double-blinded” study. Researchers use “double-blinded” studies to make sure that the results of the study are not influenced in any way. Patients were put into one of two treatment groups by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study. This is done to make the groups more similar for things like age and race. Reducing differences between the groups makes the groups more even to compare. Patients had a 50% chance (1 in 2 chances, like the flip of a coin) of getting either treatment. 

For four weeks, patients were checked (screened) to make sure they met all the requirements to be in the study. Then, patients were put into one of two groups and were given six cycles of treatment. Each cycle occurred every three weeks. After taking the study medicines, patients were followed by researchers for four weeks (follow-up phase) to see how they did after taking study medicines. 

While patients were only in the study for about seven months, the entire study took 17 months to complete. Pfizer ran this study at 46 locations in ten countries in Europe and the United States. It began on 23 September 2014 and ended on 09 March 2016. 226 women participated. One patient was randomized, but did not receive any study drug. All patients were between the ages of 24 and 79.

The diagram below shows what happened to patients in the study. Patients were supposed to be treated through six cycles of treatment. Of the 225 patients who got at least one cycle of treatment, 215 finished the study. Ten patients left before the study was over by their choice or because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study. 

When the study ended in March 2016, Pfizer began reviewing the information collected. Pfizer then created a report of the results. The following is a summary of that report.