What is acute myeloid leukemia?
Acute myeloid leukemia is also known as AML and is a common cancer of the blood.  
AML starts when myeloid cells in the bone marrow begin to grow out of control.  
The bone marrow is the soft inner part of certain bones, and it is where new blood 
cells are made. The myeloid cells would normally develop into red blood cells, certain 
types of white blood cells, and platelets. Red blood cells are used to carry oxygen 
from the lungs around the body to where it is needed. These red blood cells also take 
carbon dioxide back to the lungs so it can be breathed out. White blood cells are used 
to fight infections. Platelets help to stop bleeding when blood vessels are damaged.  
While AML starts in the bone marrow, it often spreads to other areas of the body.
What is glasdegib?
This study investigated the use of glasdegib, which is a new type of treatment known as 
a hedgehog or smoothened (SMO) inhibitors. Glasdegib is designed to reduce or stop 
the growth of cancer cells. At the time this study began, glasdegib was an 
investigational (or experimental) drug. An investigational drug is one that is not 
approved for sale in the country where it is being used. During this study, the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) gave their approval for glasdegib to be used 
with low dose cytarabine to treat newly diagnosed AML. This was in November 
2018. The European Medicines Agency (EMA) gave their approval in June 2020. 
Glasdegib is sold in these countries as DAURISMO®.
The other treatments used in this study are cytarabine, daunorubicin, and azacitidine.  
These are all licensed cancer treatments for AML and are often described as 
chemotherapy.  
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this research study is to compare the effects of the study drug, 
glasdegib, with a placebo, to find out how well glasdegib worked in combination with 
chemotherapy to help participants live longer. Two different types of chemotherapy 
were tested in this study: 
- Intensive chemotherapy with cytarabine and daunorubicin. These treatments are 
often used to treat patients with AML in the US and Europe, but this type of 
chemotherapy is quite aggressive. This means the medicines are strong and quite 
toxic and not all patients with AML are suitable for this intensive chemotherapy. 
- Standard chemotherapy with azacitidine. This is one of the medicines used to 
treat patients with AML in the US and Europe if the patient is not suitable for 
intensive chemotherapy.
Researchers wanted to know: 
Did the participants taking glasdegib with chemotherapy live 
longer compared to participants not taking glasdegib?
How was the study done?
This study included participants with AML who had not previously been treated for their cancer. The participants were split into 2 groups:
- An Intensive Treatment Group – this included participants who were suitable for intensive chemotherapy with cytarabine and daunorubicin
- A Non-Intensive Treatment Group – this included participants who were not suitable for intensive chemotherapy and who were given standard chemotherapy with azacitidine.
The researchers then tested glasdegib on each group of study participants to find out if study participants taking glasdegib plus chemotherapy lived longer compared to study participants given placebo plus chemotherapy. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but it looks just like the study medication. Participants took glasdegib or placebo tablets once a day and this treatment could be continued for up to 2 years.
