Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is the most common type of arthritis in children. The term "idiopathic" means "of unknown origin", and the term "juvenile" means that disease symptoms start before a person is 16 years old. This disease causes swelling, pain, and stiffness in the joints. JIA is an "autoimmune disease", which means that patients with JIA have an overactive immune system that mistakenly attacks healthy parts of the body, such as the joints. JIA can cause permanent damage to the joints if it goes unchecked, so researchers are looking for new treatment options for polyarticular course JIA. The study drug, tofacitinib, is an oral (taken by mouth) medication that has been approved to treat adults with other types of arthritis. The body normally makes special proteins called "cytokines" that trigger activity in the immune system. In patients with JIA, the body makes too many cytokines, which causes the immune system to become overactive. Researchers think that the study drug works by lowering the amount of cytokines in the body, which helps to calm the activity of the immune system and decrease JIA symptoms. The main purpose of this study was to find out if the study drug works to treat polyarticular course JIA. Some patients in this study also received placebo to find out if the study drug works in comparison with receiving no treatment at all. A placebo looks just like the medication but doesn't have any medication in it. Researchers wanted to know: 
- Did the study drug work to prevent JIA flares, improve JIA symptoms, and ease or reduce overall disability compared to placebo? 
To answer this question, researchers looked at how many patients had disease flares by the end of the study after being treated with the study drug, compared to patients who received placebo. A flare is a sudden, temporary episode of pain and inflammation which is usually associated with tiredness, stiffness or joint swelling. Researchers also looked at how many patients had 30%, 50%, and 70% improvement in their JIA symptoms and if there was any change in their overall disability by asking the patients or their parents certain questions. 090177e1931b7a82\Approved\Approved On: 26-Mar-2020 02:20 (GMT) 3
This study consisted of 2 parts. In the first part of the study, all patients received treatment with the study drug 2 times per day, for 18 weeks. This was called the “run-in phase”. Only the patients who had at least 30% improvement in their symptoms after the run-in phase took part in the second part of the study, called the “double-blind phase”.  
