What is atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis?
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare-ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time.
Plaque psoriasis is a common type of psoriasis seen by doctors. People with this disease, also have flare-ups where their symptoms worsen. The skin, during a flare-up, is usually red and scaly with raised plaques or patches on the skin.
What is PF-07038124?
The study drug (PF-07038124) is an investigational drug because it is not approved for use in people with atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment once a day. The researchers wanted to know if treatment with PF-07038124 ointment was able to improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to the symptoms seen in atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of PF-07038124 ointment with a plain ointment to see if there are any differences between these ointments when used to treat atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. The plain ointment looks and feels like the PF-07038124 ointment but does not contain any medicine. The researchers compared PF-07038124 ointment with plain ointment by measuring the amount and severity of atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. They did this by calculating the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) score or the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score. These measures are used to estimate how much of a person's body is affected by atopic dermatitis (EASI score) or plaque psoriasis (PASI score) and also the severity of the atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. The researchers also wanted to find out about the safety of PF-07038124.
Researchers wanted to know:
Did participants using PF-07038124 ointment have less severe atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis and/or the area affected was reduced compared to participants using plain ointment?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested PF-07038124 ointment on a group of study participants to find out 
if study participants treated with this ointment had fewer symptoms of atopic 
dermatitis or plaque psoriasis than participants who used a plain ointment. 
Participants went to the study center to be screened by the study doctor to make sure 
they were able to join the study and to see if they had mild to moderate atopic 
dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. This was known as the “screening period” and this 
lasted up to 6 weeks. Participants then entered the treatment period, which started on 
Day 1 and lasted 6 weeks. During the treatment period, participants were to apply the 
ointment once a day to an area or areas of skin affected by their atopic dermatitis or 
plaque psoriasis.

The study participants and researchers did not know who used PF-07038124 
ointment and who used the plain ointment. This is known as a “blinded” study.  
Study participants were assigned to each group by chance alone. Each participant visited the study center on Day 1, and then on Week 1, Week 2, 
Week 4, and Week 6. During these visits, the study doctors assessed the participant’s 
atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis and general health. Participants were also asked 
to provide blood and urine samples for testing. Participants were not treated after
Week 6 but were to remain in the study for the next 4 to 5 weeks for safety 
monitoring and questioning about their health. Participants then returned to the 
study center for the final study assessments. 

The following figure shows what happened during this study:
Note: Not all participants were available to attend the follow-up visit.

Where did this study take place?
The Sponsor ran this study at 34 locations in 4 countries in North America, Australia,
and Europe.

When did this study take place?
It began 21st December 2020 and ended 18th August 2021.

Who participated in this study?
The study included adult participants who had mild or moderate atopic dermatitis or 
mild or moderate plaque psoriasis. 
 A total of 49 men participated
 A total of 55 women participated
 All participants were between the ages of 19 and 70 years
Participants were to be treated for 6 weeks. Of the 152 participants who were 
screened, 104 participants (70 [67%] with atopic dermatitis and 34 [33%] with plaque 
psoriasis) started the study, 88 participants (60 [58%] with atopic dermatitis and 
28 [27%] with plaque psoriasis) completed treatment, and 91 participants (61 [59%] 
with atopic dermatitis and 30 [29%] with plaque psoriasis) finished the safety follow 
up phase of the study.

There were 16 participants (10 [10%] with atopic dermatitis and 6 [6%] with plaque 
psoriasis) who did not finish treatment, and 7 participants (5 [5%] with atopic 
dermatitis and 2 [2%] with plaque psoriasis) who did not finish the safety follow up 
part of the study. Most participants stopped study treatment because of medical 
problems or because they no longer wanted to continue in the study.

How long did the study last?
Study participants were in the study for 16 to 17 weeks. The entire study took just 
over 34 weeks to complete. When the study ended in August 2021, the Sponsor began reviewing the information 
collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that 
report.
