Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. In some patients with NSCLC, the patient’s liver may not work properly. Doctors often describe this as "hepatic impairment". Hepatic is a Latin word for things that are related to the liver and impairment means something that is not working properly. The liver is a large organ in the body that has many different jobs including cleaning the blood and making different proteins and chemicals, as well as acting as a store for other chemicals and energy. If the liver is not working properly, it can mean a patient is not able to take certain types of drugs. This is because the drug could build up in the body and cause medical problems or that not enough drug is able to get into the blood to treat the patient’s disease.
Dacomitinib (Vizimpro®) is a medicine that has been approved in the United States, Japan, and the European Union as treatment for patients with a certain type of advanced NSCLC that is known as epithelial growth factor receptor positive (EGFR+). Advanced NSCLC means the lung cancer has spread to other parts of the body. EGFR+ means the tumor has a mutation (or change) in the gene that makes EGFR proteins. These are proteins on the surface of cells that can stimulate cancer cells to grow and multiply. Dacomitinib works by blocking the activity of a group of proteins called the human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family that includes EGFR (also known as HER1, HER2, and HER4) in patients who are EGFR+. By blocking the activity of these proteins, dacomitinib may be able to help limit the growth and spread of cancer cells. Dacomitinib is given as a tablet once a day to be taken by mouth.
The researchers wanted to know what could happen to dacomitinib in the blood of participants with severe hepatic impairment (e.g., a liver that is hardly working). They also wanted to know if severe hepatic impairment altered how quickly dacomitinib got into the blood and if the amount of drug in the blood changed.
To answer this question, the researchers collected blood samples over several days from participants with severe hepatic impairment and from participants with no hepatic impairment (e.g., livers that were working properly). The researchers then measured the amount of dacomitinib in the samples to see if it was different in participants with severe hepatic impairment compared to participants with properly working livers. As food can change how long it takes a drug to reach the blood, this study looked at what happened to dacomitinib in the blood of participants who had not eaten for at least 10 hours. By doing this, the researchers knew that the food the participant had eaten previously was unlikely to change how much dacomitinib got into the blood and how quickly this happened.
This study compared two groups of participants to find out what happens to dacomitinib in the body of participants who have severe hepatic impairment compared to participants with no hepatic impairment. The study included adult participants who weighed more than 50 kg (110 lb) with severe hepatic impairment or with no hepatic impairment. Participants were put into one of two treatment groups according to how well their liver was working. Participants with severe hepatic impairment joined the study first and patients with no hepatic impairment joined afterwards. The researchers tried to match the two groups so that the average age and average body weight of each group were similar. This meant the two groups were similar except for how well their livers were working. All participants in the study took dacomitinib.
While participants were only in the study for eight days (i.e., from the day before treatment until seven days after treatment), the entire study took just over six months to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at two locations in the US. It began on 05 April 2019 and ended on 24 October 2019. Sixteen men participated and all were between the ages of 52 and 68 years.
