A "neutrophil" is a type of white blood cell that fights infections in the body. Certain chemotherapy medicines that are used for treating cancer can cause the number of neutrophils in the body to be too low. This is known as "chemotherapy-induced neutropenia", or CIN. Patients with CIN are at increased risk for fever and serious infections.
There are medicines that can be used to treat CIN. One medicine that is used is called Neulasta®. Neulasta may increase the number of neutrophils in the blood.
This study was designed to study a new medicine being developed for CIN. This medicine is called HSP-130 (PF-06881894), and it is similar to Neulasta. The reason for studying HSP-130 is to give patients another treatment option. HSP-130 is still being studied and has not been approved for use outside of clinical studies.
For this study, researchers were interested in learning how HSP-130 affects the body, when given as a single dose or as multiple doses. This information is important to help determine the right dose of HSP-130. The study was for women with breast cancer that had not spread to other parts of the body. It was divided into 2 parts. In the first part of the study, researchers wanted to answer this question:
- What effect did HSP-130 have on the number of neutrophils in patients' blood, if they were not getting chemotherapy?
For the second part of the study, researchers wanted to answer this question:
- How many days did patients have severely low neutrophil counts (neutropenia) during their first chemotherapy cycle?
This study looked at how HSP-130 affects the body. The study included women with breast cancer who had never before taken chemotherapy. This was an “open-label” study, which means that both the patients and researchers knew what treatment was being given.
Since the study was divided into 2 parts, each patient took part in only Part 1 or Part 2. Patients were checked by the study doctor to make sure they were a good fit to join the study. This was called “screening”.
Part 1 - Without Chemotherapy: Part 1 lasted about 30 days and included 12 patients with breast cancer. The first 6 patients received 1 dose (3 mg) of HSP-130. The next 6 patients received 1 dose (6 mg) of HSP-130. HSP-130 was given as an injection just under the skin. The researchers tested patients’ blood throughout the study to see how the body responds to the HSP-130, and to decide if the lower dose (3 mg) would be used during Part 2 of the study.
Part 2 - With Chemotherapy: Part 2 lasted about 94 days and included 13 patients who had already had surgery for their breast cancer. This part of the study was divided into 4 “chemotherapy treatment cycles” that each lasted about 3 weeks. During each cycle, patients received 1 dose (6 mg) of HSP-130 (for a total of 4 doses), and chemotherapy as prescribed by their study doctor. The researchers tested patients’ blood throughout the study to learn how the body responds to the HSP-130. 
