What is type 2 diabetes mellitus?
Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a common form of diabetes. A person with T2DM either does not make enough insulin or their body cannot use the insulin it makes properly. Insulin is a hormone or chemical messenger that controls the amount of sugar in the blood after eating. Every person needs some sugar in the blood as their body uses this sugar for energy. If a person has T2DM, there is too much sugar in their blood and this can cause lots of different health problems, including stroke, and may even lead to death. Some people with T2DM can control the amount of sugar in their blood with diet but others will need medicine to help them do this. Obesity can increase the risk of developing T2DM.
What is danuglipron?
Danuglipron, also known by the name PF-06882961, is a new type of glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) receptor agonist that is being developed. Some GLP-1 receptor agonists have been licensed for use in people with T2DM, and these are given by injection. Danuglipron is a tablet that is taken twice a day.
GLP-1 is a hormone produced by the body that increases the amount of insulin that is produced after a meal. The word agonist means the medicine needs to bind to something in the body to have an effect, which in this case is to mimic or copy GLP-1. GLP-1 receptor agonists cause the body to release more insulin, which may help control the amount of sugar in the blood in T2DM. GLP-1 receptor agonists also help to increase satiety, which means the person feels fuller after eating and may not eat as much at meals.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study was to compare levels of rosuvastatin in the blood when 2 different doses of danuglipron were taken or when danuglipron was not taken with the rosuvastatin. Rosuvastatin is a medicine used to reduce cholesterol in the blood. The researchers also wanted to compare levels of midazolam in the blood when 2 different doses of danuglipron were taken or when danuglipron was not taken with the midazolam. Midazolam is a medicine used to help with anxiety.
