Prostate cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the prostate, which is a small, walnut-sized gland that lies at the base of the bladder in men and is part of the male reproductive system.
Prostate cancer is a common cancer in men, and it is often a slow-growing cancer with few symptoms.
Enzalutamide is a prescription medicine that is approved to treat men with prostate cancer that no longer responds to a medical or surgical treatment that lowers testosterone. Enzalutamide works by interfering with the connections between androgens (a type of hormone that plays a role in male traits and reproduction) and androgen receptors (a protein in the body that attaches to androgens). This may help to slow the growth of prostate cancer.
The main goal of this study was to learn more about the use of enzalutamide in patients with prostate cancer that was spreading to other parts of the body, despite receiving treatment to block androgens. Researchers wanted to answer these research questions:
• How long did patients survive after receiving enzalutamide, compared to placebo?
• How long did patients survive without cancer getting worse after receiving enzalutamide, compared to placebo?
This study compared two groups of patients to find out how long patients taking enzalutamide would survive, and how long they would survive without cancer getting worse, compared to patients taking a placebo. A placebo does not have any active medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. The study included patients who had prostate cancer that was spreading to other parts of the body, despite receiving treatment to block androgens. The patients had either mild symptoms or no symptoms due to prostate cancer when the study began. To be eligible to join the study, patients must have never used a type of medicine called “cytotoxic chemotherapy”, which is used to destroy cancer cells.
Patients in this study were assigned to receive either enzalutamide or placebo. The patients and researchers did not know who took enzalutamide and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. Patients were assigned to each treatment group by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study. Putting people into groups by chance helps make the groups more similar so they can be compared. 
