```Prostate cancer is common in men and happens when the cells of the "prostate" start to grow out of control. The prostate is a gland that is part of the male reproductive system. Patients with prostate cancer are often treated with hormone therapy and/or "orchiectomy". Orchiectomy is the surgical removal of 1 or both testicles (sometimes called castration). Even with hormone therapy and/or surgery, the cancer can come back. If this happens, it is called castration-resistant prostate cancer and hormone therapy, immunotherapy, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy may be given. Prostate cancer may also "metastasize" or spread to other areas of the body. Often new cancers will develop in the bone and these cancers are described as metastatic bone tumors. 
One type of hormone therapy that can be given to patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer is Xtandi® (enzalutamide). This medicine can be used to treat metastatic as well as non-metastatic disease in many countries around the world, including the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
This study used 18F-sodium fluoride positron-emission tomography/computed tomography (18F-NaF PET-CT) to look at the effect of enzalutamide treatment on metastatic bone tumors in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer. 18F-NaF PET-CT is an imaging test that can be used to see what is happening to a tumor and if the tumor is responding to treatment. Patients in this study were treated with enzalutamide and the researchers looked to see if the tumor was shrinking, staying the same, or getting bigger after treatment. If the tumor gets bigger, different treatment options may be needed.```
This study compared a single group of patients to find out if 18F-NaF PET-CT imaging could be used to look at treatment response in metastatic bone tumors in patients taking enzalutamide. The study included patients who had castration-resistant prostate cancer with metastatic bone tumors and who were "chemotherapy naive in this setting". This means that the patient must not have been previously treated with chemotherapy for their castration-resistant prostate cancer. 
While patients were only in the study for up to 36 months, the entire study took 3 years and 5 months to complete. The sponsor ran this study at three locations in the United States. It began on 07 December 2015 and ended on 03 May 2019. A total of 23 men participated. All patients were between the ages of 51 and 93 years. Patients were to be initially treated until Week 13 and have Scan 1 performed at screening and Scan 2 at Week 13. At the Week 13 visit, the doctor decided if the patient’s enzalutamide treatment was to be stopped due to “disease progression”, which means the cancer was getting worse, or if enzalutamide could be continued. 
Disease progression could be determined by looking at scans or from the patient’s symptoms. If disease progression occurred either at Week 13 or after this time point, the patient was removed from the study. If the patient was removed from the study after Week 13, Scan 3 was performed. Patients who remained in the study and were treated with enzalutamide beyond Week 13 were regularly monitored. In patients with no disease progression, the final Scan 3 was performed 2 years after the patient had first started treatment with enzalutamide. The doctor could also stop a patient’s enzalutamide treatment during the study if the patient had medical problems that they could not tolerate like feeling too tired all the time or if their blood pressure was too high. 
Of the 23 patients who started the study and had Scan 1, 20 patients had Scan 1 and Scan 2, 22 patients had Scan 1 and Scan 3, and 20 patients had all 3 scans. 16 patients left before the study was over by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for the patient to stop the study, 1 patient left because of medical problems, and 1 patient passed away. There were 5 patients who were transferred by their doctor to an extension study so they could continue enzalutamide treatment.
