What is alopecia areata? 
Alopecia areata is an autoimmune disorder, which may be chronic and recurring, 
where a patient experiences non-scarring hair loss. It can affect adults and children 
across all ages, races, and sexes. Alopecia areata can have a large impact on the 
psychological health of both adult and pediatric patients, including damage to the 
patient’s self-esteem, an increased occurrence of anxiety and depression, and other 
psychological conditions, problems with social relationships, decreased health-related 
quality of life, and a general decline in quality of life. 
Patchy alopecia areata is the most common form of alopecia areata, which may 
develop into more widespread and often treatment-resistant forms of alopecia areata, 
especially when the disease starts at an earlier age. Alopecia areata involving 50% or 
greater scalp hair loss, including the loss of all the hair on the scalp (alopecia totalis) 
and the loss of all scalp, face, and body hair (alopecia universalis) can be considered 
extensive forms of alopecia areata. 
What is Ritlecitinib? 
Ritlecitinib is a small molecule oral medication. Small molecules can move easily 
through the cell membrane to interact with targeted molecules present inside a cell. 
Ritlecitinib inhibits the enzymes (protein molecule in cells which speed up chemical 
reactions in the body) known as Janus kinase 3 (JAK3) and tyrosine kinase 
expressed in hepatocellular carcinoma (TEC) family. These enzymes are important 
regulators of inflammatory pathways in the cell and cause the production of molecules 
known as cytokines. It is believed that these inflammatory pathways and cytokines are 
involved in dermatologic diseases such as vitiligo, atopic dermatitis, as well as alopecia 
areata. What was the purpose of this study? 
The purpose of this study was to compare ritlecitinib with a placebo to determine 
ritlecitinib’s efficacy and safety in treating alopecia areata patients. Ritlecitinib is an 
investigational medication because it is not approved for use. The placebo looks like 
the study medication but does not contain any active ingredients. Researchers 
compared the results of taking the placebo to the results of taking ritlecitinib to see if 
there were any differences. 
Researchers wanted to know: 
Did the participants taking ritlecitinib have a better response than 
the participants taking placebo at Week 24?
How was the study done? 
Researchers tested ritlecitinib on a group of study participants to find out if study participants taking ritlecitinib had a better response as measured by the Severity Alopecia Tool (SALT) in comparison to placebo at Week 24. Following Week 24, participants taking placebo were switched to ritlecitinib during the extension period. The SALT score measures the severity of alopecia by capturing the percentage of hair loss. It was calculated by dividing the scalp into 4 quadrants with allocated percentage scalp surface area in each area. The study was carried out as shown in Figure 1 below. 
