Atopic dermatitis (or "AD"), which is also sometimes called atopic eczema, is a common skin disorder that causes patches of flaky, red, and very itchy skin. AD occurs in 1% to 3% of adults and 15% to 20% of children worldwide. Some of the current medicines available for AD can only be used for short time periods or can cause other health problems. Researchers are looking for new treatments for AD that can be taken for long periods of time.
While researchers think that many things cause AD, it is made worse by the body's immune system (the body's defense against infection) causing redness and swelling (inflammation). Cells in the immune system cause inflammation by making special proteins called "cytokines". Researchers think that medicines that lower the amount of cytokines that the body makes could help treat patients with AD.
The drug tested in this study was PF-04965842, which now has the generic name abrocitinib. Abrocitinib is an experimental drug that has not been approved for sale. Abrocitinib blocks the activity of a protein called "Janus kinase 1", which acts like a switch for the cells of the immune system. By turning off this switch, the cells of the immune system are expected to produce fewer cytokines that are believed to make AD worse. The researchers wanted to ask:
- Are patients who take abrocitinib more likely to have their AD improve compared to patients who are treated with a placebo?
To do this, researchers used 2 tests to measure the severity of each patient's AD at the beginning of the study. The researchers measured the severity of AD during 12 weeks of study treatment. The difference in severity was used to decide if a patient's AD had improved or not.
This study compared three groups of patients to find out if patients taking abrocitinib had their AD improved compared to patients taking placebo. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. The study included adult men and women, and adolescents who were aged 12 years and older. Patients included in the study:
