Plaque psoriasis is a disease that can cause a red, scaly rash to form on the skin. The 
rash may be painful or itchy. Plaque psoriasis can also affect other parts of the body, 
such as the joints or nails. These problems are because the immune system, whose 
job is to attack foreign invaders like viruses and other germs, mistakenly attacks the 
body instead.
There is no cure for plaque psoriasis at this time, but common treatments include 
medicines that may control pain, reduce inflammation, and help prevent the immune 
system from attacking the body. 
PF-06700841 is a medicine that is being studied as a possible treatment for moderate 
to severe plaque psoriasis. PF-06700841 may help to stop the immune system from 
attacking the body and reduce inflammation. Because it is still being tested, 
PF-06700841 has not been approved for use in patients.
The main purpose of this study was to find out how PF-06700841 works to treat 
moderate to severe plaque psoriasis, compared to a placebo. A placebo looks just like 
the medicine but doesn't have any medicine in it.
Researchers wanted to know:
- At week 12 of the study, did patients who took PF-06700841 have an 
improvement in psoriasis symptoms compared to patients who took placebo? 
To answer this question, the researchers used a tool called the PASI (Psoriasis Area 
and Severity Index) to measure plaque psoriasis symptoms. The PASI looks at the 
redness, thickness, and scaling of the rash, as well as how much of the body is covered 
by the rash.
This study compared patients taking different dose strengths of PF-06700841 to patients taking placebo, to find out if they would have an improvement in psoriasis symptoms. The study included adult patients with moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. The patients and researchers did not know who took PF-06700841 and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. Patients were assigned to each group by chance alone. Putting people into groups by chance helps to make the groups easier to compare. 
