Psoriatic arthritis (also known as "PsA") is a disease that can cause pain and swelling (inflammation) in or around the joints, tendon areas, fingers, toes, and back, and is often combined with itchy, scaly rashes on the skin. These problems are because the immune system, whose job is to attack foreign invaders like viruses and other germs, mistakenly attacks other parts of the body instead. If PsA inflammation is left untreated, joints, tendon areas, fingers, and toes may become painful or swollen; skin rashes may occur; and people may become extremely tired. There is no cure for PsA at this time, but common treatments for PsA include medicines that control pain, reduce inflammation, and prevent the immune system from attacking the joints. Tofacitinib is a medicine that may reduce the activity of the immune system. It is an oral (taken by mouth) medication used to treat adults with PsA. In this study, researchers wanted to learn more about the use of tofacitinib in people who had not been helped by conventional synthetic disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs (csDMARDs) like methotrexate, which were being used to treat PsA. Researchers did this study to find out if tofacitinib, when compared to placebo, in patients on background therapy of csDMARD, reduced PsA symptoms and improved a patient's ability to perform physical activities (improved physical functioning). Researchers wanted to answer this question: Does tofacitinib help reduce pain, inflammation, and other symptoms caused by PsA in patients that were not helped by other drugs (csDMARDs) previously being used to treat PsA?
This study compared 5 groups of patients to find out if patients who took tofacitinib had an improvement in PsA symptoms and physical functioning, compared to patients who took placebo. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine being tested. Using a placebo helps researchers learn if the study drug works better than no treatment at all. In this study, all patients (including those taking placebo) received 1 csDMARD as background therapy; thus, patients taking placebo did take some medicine in this study. Background therapy is the standard treatment routinely used to treat a disease or condition.
In this study, some patients were given adalimumab, which is a medication that is used to treat PsA. Adalimumab is a biologic DMARD (bDMARD) and has been shown to reduce pain and inflammation in patients with PsA. Researchers also wanted to find out if patients who took adalimumab, an active control, had an improvement in the same symptoms and functioning compared to patients who took placebo. An active control is a drug that is already being used to treat patients with the disease being studied. In this study, the active control was tested against placebo to see if the standard treatment available to patients worked better than no treatment at all.
