What is atopic dermatitis? 
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare-ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time. 
What is crisaborole? 
Crisaborole is a medicine that is used to treat atopic dermatitis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment twice a day. Crisaborole may improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to symptoms such as redness. 
What was the purpose of this study? 
The purpose of the study was to see if the symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were reduced when crisaborole ointment was applied twice a day to the affected area compared to when a vehicle ointment was used. The vehicle ointment does not have any medicine in it, but it looks and feels just like the crisaborole ointment. Crisaborole is a licensed treatment for atopic dermatitis in adults and children in some countries (United States, Canada, China, Israel, and Australia). This study was conducted in China and Japan to allow data to be collected in these countries. 
Researchers wanted to know: 
Did the symptoms of atopic dermatitis in adults and children 2 years and older reduce in areas of skin treated with crisaborole, and did the condition get better compared to areas of skin treated with vehicle ointment?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested crisaborole ointment on adults and children 2 years and older in China and Japan to find out if participants who were treated with crisaborole had fewer symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis compared to participants who used a vehicle ointment. 
Participants went to the study center to be screened by the study doctor to make sure they were able to join the study. This was known as the "screening period" and this lasted up to 35 days. Participants then entered the treatment period, which started on Day 1 and lasted 28 days. During the treatment period, participants (or their parents or caregivers if the participant was a child) were to apply the ointment twice a day to an area or areas of skin affected by the atopic dermatitis. Treatment was to be continued even if the participant had no symptoms of atopic dermatitis.
The study participants and researchers did not know who used the crisaborole ointment and who used the vehicle ointment. The study staff who looked at the participant’s skin to assess how the treatment was working also did not know what treatment each participant had been given. This is known as an “double-blinded” study. Study participants were assigned to treatment with crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment by chance alone. This was done to make sure that the study results were not influenced in any way.
