What is atopic dermatitis? 
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. There is no known cure for this condition. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time.  
What is crisaborole? 
Crisaborole is a medicine that is used to treat atopic dermatitis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment twice a day. Crisaborole may improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to symptoms such as redness.  
What was the purpose of this study?  
The purpose of the study was to see if the symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were reduced when crisaborole ointment was applied twice a day to the affected area compared to when a vehicle ointment was used. The vehicle ointment does not have any medicine in it, but it looks and feels just like the crisaborole ointment. Some participants in the study were given hydrocortisone butyrate cream (a topical corticosteroid) and others used pimecrolimus cream (a topical calcineurin inhibitor) rather than the crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment. Topical means a treatment that is used on the skin. Corticosteroid and calcineurin inhibitor creams are commonly used to treat atopic dermatitis. The researchers also included treatment with these 2 creams in the study because they also wanted to see what happened when hydrocortisone butyrate cream and pimecrolimus cream were used instead of crisaborole or vehicle ointment.  
Researchers wanted to know:  
Did symptoms of atopic dermatitis improve in areas of skin treated with crisaborole, compared to areas of skin treated with vehicle ointment or the comparator creams?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested crisaborole ointment on a group of study participants to find out if study participants treated with crisaborole had fewer symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis than participants who used a vehicle ointment. Researchers also wanted to see what would happen when hydrocortisone butyrate cream or pimecrolimus cream were used by participants instead of crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment.
Participants went to the study center to be screened by the study doctor to make sure they were able to join the study. This was known as the “screening period” and this lasted up to 35 days. 
Participants then entered the treatment period, which started on Day 1 and lasted 28 days. During the treatment period, participants (or their parents or caregivers if the participant was a child) were to apply the ointment or cream twice a day to an area or areas of skin affected by the atopic dermatitis. 
The study participants and researchers did not know who used the crisaborole ointment and who used the vehicle ointment. Study participants would have been able to tell if they were given an ointment instead of one of the “comparator” creams as the treatment would have felt different. 
A comparator treatment is usually a treatment that is commonly given to participants with the disease being investigated. In this study, hydrocortisone butyrate cream and pimecrolimus cream were the comparator creams. The study doctors who looked at the participant’s skin to assess how the treatment was working did not know what treatment each participant had been given. This is known as an “assessor blinded” study. 
