What was the purpose of this study?
Myelofibrosis (MF) is a type of bone marrow cancer, characterized by uncontrolled production of abnormal, undifferentiated (stem cells) bone marrow cells leading to development of scar tissue in bone marrow. This can change the body's normal production of blood cells. Clinical features include abnormal blood counts, enlarged spleen and/or liver, bleeding, thrombosis, and debilitating constitutional symptoms such as fatigue, weight loss, night sweats, fever, itchiness, bone pain, abdominal pain, and feeling "full" quicker when eating.
Glasdegib was the medicine tested in this study. Glasdegib has been developed to help reduce the proliferation and growth of abnormal bone marrow stem cells which may allow this cancer to grow. Cancer stem cells are cells that self-regenerate and contribute to tumor growth. The cancer stem cells can lead to tumor resistance to treatment, and spread of the tumor (metastasis). It can also impact a patient's overall survival.
This study was planned to be conducted in two parts: a "Lead-In" phase and a "Randomized" phase. All enrolled patients participated in the "Lead-In" phase of the study only.
The primary purpose of the 'Lead-In' phase of this study was to see if glasdegib (also known as PF-04449913), 100 mg daily dose, taken by mouth, was safe and tolerated in patients with MF who had previously taken ruxolitinib. Ruxolitinib is a medicine, approved for use, to treat MF. Ruxolitinib is sold under the name of Jakafi® or Jakavi®, depending on where you live.
In addition, to determine how their disease responded following 24 weeks of glasdegib study treatment, patients were evaluated to assess if their spleen volume had changed by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or computed tomography (CT).
090177e1923a94a9\Approved\Approved On: 28-Nov-2019 05:51 (GMT)
Who was eligible to take part in the study?
The study included adult patients who:
Were diagnosed with MF;
Have previously been treated with ruxolitinib for MF, for which they had to stop due to not working well enough, or because it was causing medical problems; and
Have symptoms of MF
oSymptoms could include feeling "full" quicker when eating, abdominal discomfort, itchiness, night sweats, bone pain, and shortness of breath.
These were just some of the main criteria patients needed to have to enter the study. There were other criteria to be in the study which are not listed here.
First researchers checked to see if patients were eligible to enter the study at the screening visit. Next, eligible patients were enrolled into the “Lead In” phase of the study and started the study medicine, Glasdegib at the Baseline visit. Over the course of the Glasdegib treatment, patients were evaluated for safety and remained on treatment for as long as they tolerated and derived clinical benefit from the treatment as determined by their study doctor. 

The picture below shows what happened during the study. Although the safety of Glasdegib was considered acceptable in the “Lead-In” phase of the study, the study did not proceed into the “Randomized” phase because Glasdegib did not appear to reduce the spleen volume. 

While patients were only in the study for about 8 months, the entire study took 4 years to complete. Some patients were in the study for longer than 8 months because they took the medicine as long as they were having clinical benefit from the study medicine.

The sponsor ran this study at 10 locations in 2 countries, in Japan and the United States. It began 06 October 2014 and ended 31 October 2018. 13 men and 8 women participated. All patients were between the ages of 58 and 83 years.

Patients were supposed to be treated with Glasdegib for at least 6 months. Of the 21 patients who started the study, 4 finished the 6 months of treatment with Glasdegib. 17 patients did not finish the study. 1 patient died before finishing the study due to progression of their disease. 12 patients did not finish the study because they discontinued due to a medical problem they experienced. 4 patients left before the study was over by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study.

When the study ended in October 2018, the sponsor reviewed the information collected. The sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.