What is atopic dermatitis?
Atopic dermatitis (or "AD"), which is also sometimes called atopic eczema, is a common skin disorder that causes patches of flaky, red, and very itchy skin. AD occurs in 5% to 10% of adults and 15% to 20% of children worldwide. Some of the current medicines available for AD can only be used for short time periods or can cause other health problems. Researchers are looking for new treatments for AD that can be taken safely for long periods of time.
While researchers think that many things cause AD, it is made worse by the body's immune system (the body's defense against infection) causing redness and swelling (inflammation). Cells in the immune system cause inflammation by making special proteins called "cytokines". Researchers think that medicines that lower the amount of cytokines that the body makes could help treat patients with AD.
What is abrocitinib?
The drug tested in this study was abrocitinib. Abrocitinib has been approved for sale and can be used by adults in some countries around the world. Abrocitinib blocks the activity of a protein called "Janus kinase 1", which acts like a switch for the cells of the immune system. By turning off this switch, the cells of the immune system are expected to produce fewer cytokines that are believed to make AD worse.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study was to compare the levels of abrocitinib seen in the blood after participants had taken abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid, and abrocitinib tablets taken 2 hours after the medicine famotidine. Famotidine is an antacid. It is used to treat and prevent heartburn, indigestion, and other symptoms caused by too much stomach acid such as stomach ulcers and reflux disease. The researchers did this study as they wanted to develop a new liquid preparation or formulation of abrocitinib as an alternative to taking tablets. Researchers wanted to know:
- Part A: How did the amount of abrocitinib in the blood change when this treatment was given as a tablet or as a liquid or when abrocitinib tablets were taken after the antacid famotidine?
- Part B: What did participants think of the taste of the abrocitinib liquid?
- What medical problems did participants have during the study?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested the study treatments of abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid (Liquid 1), and abrocitinib tablets when taken 2 hours after famotidine on groups of healthy participants to learn how abrocitinib acted in the body in Part A. The researchers also wanted to know what the participants thought about the taste of different abrocitinib liquids in Part B. Participants had to stay at the study center for the entire study (Part A and Part B). Participants were assigned to each group by chance alone and the treatments in Part A and in Part B were given in a random order as shown in the following figure. In Part A, participants were to take abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid (Liquid 1), and abrocitinib tablets 2 hours after having taken famotidine tablets. The dose of abrocitinib was 200 milligrams or mg and this was taken after an overnight fast (nothing to eat or drink except water). The participants took the study treatments in a random order. The participants and the researchers knew who was taking what treatment and this is known as an “open-label study”. There was to be at least 3 days between each dose in Part A, and also 3 days between Period 3 of Part A and Period 4 of Part B. 

In Part B, participants were to take all 6 different liquid formulations of 200mg abrocitinib and were asked about the taste. The 6 liquids were to be taken in a random order with at least 1 day between each dose. Some participants also took famotidine. The participants did not know what was in each formulation of abrocitinib, but the researchers knew what was in the liquids. This is known as a “single-blind study”. The results of this taste testing are not included in this report. 

Researchers took samples of blood and urine from participants during the study for safety tests and for testing for abrocitinib. Researchers then compared the levels of abrocitinib in the blood of the participants. Researchers also checked the participants’ health during the study and asked them how they were feeling.

Where did this study take place?
The Sponsor ran this study at 1 location in the United States of America.

When did this study take place?
It began 04 June 2021 and ended 26 October 2021.

Who participated in this study?
The study included healthy adult participants.
A total of 14 men participated.
A total of 5 women participated.
All participants were between the ages of 22 and 55 years. Of the 19 participants who started the study, 18 finished the study. One (1) participant did not finish the study because they wanted to leave the study.

How long did the study last?
Study participants were in the study for about 52 days. The entire study took almost 5 months to complete.

When the study ended in October 2021, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.