Breast cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer in women. In 2012, around 1.7 million women were diagnosed with this disease around the world. Men can also get breast cancer, though this is quite rare. Some breast cancers are caused by "mutations" in "DNA" in the Breast Cancer "genes" 1 and 2, which are more commonly known as BRCA1 and BRCA2. DNA is a material inside the cells of all living things that controls how cells in the body grow. Genes are parts of DNA that contain the code for a specific feature, like eye color. Mutations are changes in the DNA that can alter how a cell will behave. If the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes have mutations then this may cause breast cancer. These mutations can be inherited from a parent with this mutation or through chance, which is like the roll of a dice. Special proteins known as "poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase" or "PARP" are found in all cells, and these proteins can help damaged cells fix or repair themselves so that the cell survives. When PARP helps cancer cells fix or repair themselves, it means that the cancer cell (and the tumor it is part of) can continue to grow and spread. Talazoparib is a "PARP inhibitor," which means it is a drug that can help stop the normal activity of PARP. At the time of this study, talazoparib was an "investigational drug". An investigational drug means that the treatment has not been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), or other regulatory agencies. This study was carried out to see if talazoparib could help reduce tumor size and slow growth in people with advanced breast cancer who have inherited mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes from a parent. On 16 October 2018, talazoparib received approval from the FDA for use in some people with breast cancer. While this study was taking place, the sponsor decided it was better to recruit patients into a Phase 3 study that compared talazoparib with usual treatment for breast cancer rather than enroll patients into this study. This study was stopped early on 31 October 2018, and the sponsor transferred patients who were still being treated with talazoparib into another study.
