Streptococcus pneumoniae is a bacteria that can cause serious diseases, including infections 
of the lung (pneumonia), brain lining (meningitis), blood (bacteremia), or ear (otitis).  
These infections may be very serious in young children and older adults. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae is also known as S. pneumoniae. There are 100 types of S. pneumoniae.
This study is about a vaccine called the “20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, 
or 20vPnC. A vaccine is used to help prevent infection by helping the body to fight 
off germs. 20vPnC may help to prevent infections caused by S. pneumoniae. It is called 
"20-valent" because 20vPnC prevents 20 of the most common types of S. pneumoniae.
20vPnC is an investigational vaccine, which means that it has not been approved for 
general use and it is not yet known if it will protect against disease caused by 
S. pneumoniae, although studies are ongoing to assess how well 20vPnC works.
After a vaccine is injected into a person’s body, the body responds to help fight 
infections and prevent diseases. The response to vaccines includes making 
“antibodies”, which are proteins that fight infections and help to prevent diseases.  
In the United States, the “13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, or 13vPnC, is 
currently approved for preventing S. pneumoniae diseases in children and adults.  
13vPnC is made up of components to prevent diseases caused by 13 types of 
S. pneumoniae. 20vPnC has the same components found in 13vPnC, plus 7 additional 
components that may widen protection. The Pneumovax 23 vaccine, or PPSV23, is 
made up of components to prevent diseases caused by 23 types of S. pneumoniae.
The purpose of this study was to learn about the safety and about the antibody 
response to 20vPnC.  
To learn about the antibody response, researchers asked these questions:
- For the 13 components found in both 13vPnC and 20vPnC, did participants 
aged 60 or older who received 20vPnC have antibody responses that were 
within a range considered to be comparable (noninferior) to those who 
received 13vPnC?
- For the 7 additional components found in both PPSV23 and 20vPnC, did 
participants aged 60 or older who received 20vPnC have antibody responses 
that were within a range comparable to those who received PPSV23?
To answer this question, the researchers measured the amount of antibodies in 
participants’ blood 1 month after being vaccinated.
To learn about the safety of 20vPnC, researchers asked these questions:  
- What percentage of participants had redness, swelling, or pain at the injection 
site within 10 days after being vaccinated?
- What percentage of participants had fever, headache, tiredness, muscle pain, or 
joint pain within 7 days after being vaccinated?
- What significant medical problems did participants have within 1 month after 
being vaccinated?
- Did participants have any newly diagnosed chronic medical problems or any 
serious medical problems within 6 months after being vaccinated?
This study included three different age ranges of participants to learn about the safety and about the antibody response to 20vPnC. The main age range studied was participants 60 years old and above. The vaccines used in this study included 20vPnC, 13vPnC, PPSV23, and salt water (saline) placebo. A placebo is given in the same way as the vaccines used in study but does not have active ingredients. 20vPnC and 13vPnC looked the same, however, the saline and PPSV23 looked different and were injected by staff that were not involved in other aspects of the study. Participants were asked to turn their heads when the PPSV23 or saline was injected so they would not know which one they had received.
Participants were checked (screened) to make sure they were a good fit for the study. This study included adult men and women who: were at least 18 years old, were considered to be healthy or with stable chronic disease by the study doctors, did not have a disease or take medicine that would be associated with a weakened immune system, never received any vaccine for S.pneumoniae, never had a disease caused by S.pneumoniae, never had a severe medical problem caused by a vaccine or an allergic reaction to any of the components in the vaccines used in this study.
Participants of three different age ranges were entered into the study: 60 years of age and older (3009 participants), 50 through 59 years of age (445 participants), 18 through 49 years of age (448 participants). Next, participants in the three age ranges were assigned to vaccine groups by chance alone and received the following vaccinations: 
60 years and older: Vaccine Group 1: 20vPnC at Visit 1 and placebo at Visit 2 one month later (1507 participants), Vaccine Group 2: 13vPnC at Visit 1 and PPSV23 at Visit 2 one month later (1490 participants).
50 through 59 years of age: Vaccine Group 1: 20vPnC at Visit 1 (334 participants), Vaccine Group 2: 13vPnC at Visit 1 (111 participants).
18 through 49 years of age: Vaccine Group 1: 20vPnC at Visit 1 (335 participants), Vaccine Group 2: 13vPnC at Visit 1 (112 participants).
This was a “randomized” study, which means that participants were assigned to groups based on chance alone. Randomization is done to make the groups similar so that differences in antibody response or safety are most likely due to the different vaccines participants received.
This study was also “double-blinded”. This means that participants and study staff members who administered the vaccine did not know who was given which vaccine. This was done to make sure that the study results were not influenced in any way.
Participants 60 years of age and older were expected to participate in three study visits. At the first visit, blood samples were collected first and then participants received either 20vPnC or 13vPnC. The second visit was done about one month after the first visit. Blood samples were collected before the participants received either saline placebo or PPSV23, and they were checked for medical problems. The third visit was done about one month after the second visit. Blood samples were collected and participants were asked about medical problems.
Participants 18 to 59 years of age were expected to participate in two study visits. At the first visit, blood samples were collected first and then participants received either 20vPnC or 13vPnC. The second visit was done about one month after the first visit. Blood samples were collected and participants were asked about medical problems.
All participants were also contacted over the phone about six months after Visit 1. The participants were asked about medical problems and whether they had received any other vaccines besides the study vaccines.
While participants were in this study for about six months, the entire study took more than a year to complete as participants entered the study at different times. The sponsor ran this study at 61 locations in the United States and Sweden. It began 12 December 2018 and ended 16 December 2019. 1558 men (40%) and 2331 women (60%) received the study vaccines. All participants were between the ages of 18 and 91 years.
