Non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. In some patients with NSCLC, their cancer cells have changes in their DNA (genes) where 2 genes combine to create a new gene. When this happens with the gene that makes the protein "ALK", the new gene is called an "ALK gene fusion". This ALK gene fusion can cause tumors to form or can help existing cancer cells grow faster. Researchers are looking for better treatments for patients with NSCLC whose cancer cells have an ALK gene fusion.
Crizotinib (also known as XALKORI®) is a drug that is now approved for use in many countries including East Asian countries to treat NSCLC with ALK gene fusions. Crizotinib works by blocking the activity of ALK, which is thought to slow or stop the growth of cancer cells with an ALK gene fusion. This study compared crizotinib treatment to "platinum-based chemotherapy", which is a medicine combination that was used as a first-line treatment for patients with NSCLC. Platinum-based chemotherapy is made up of the combination of the drug pemetrexed with either cisplatin or carboplatin.
The main purpose of this study was to see whether crizotinib treatment would keep patients' cancer from growing for a longer period of time compared to patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. To do this the researchers asked,
Do patients treated with crizotinib have more time before their cancer begins to grow, or before they pass away from any cause, compared to patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy?
The researchers measured the "progression-free survival time" which was defined as the time between starting the study and the patients' NSCLC getting worse, or the patient passing away from any cause (such as from disease or an accident). The researchers then calculated the "median" progression-free survival time, which was the time point where half (50%) of the patients in a study group had their NSCLC start to grow, or had passed away from any cause.
Researchers were also interested in learning more about the safety of crizotinib. They monitored the patients for any medical problems that happened while they were taking crizotinib or after they stopped taking crizotinib.
This study compared two groups of patients to find out if patients treated with crizotinib would have more time before their cancer began to grow, or before they passed away from any cause, compared to patients treated with platinum-based chemotherapy. The study included men and women who were 18 to 70 years of age who met the following criteria:
