Anemia is a condition when a person has a low amount of red blood cells in their body. Anemia is common in patients with chronic kidney disease because their bodies may not make enough erythropoietin, a hormone that is needed to make red blood cells. Patients who have anemia can feel weak or very tired, have trouble breathing, or have headaches.
There are a variety of ways to treat anemia. One medicine that is used is called Epogen® (epoetin alfa). Epogen may help the body make red blood cells.
Retacrit® (epoetin alfa-epbx) is a new medicine for anemia. Retacrit was made to be similar to Epogen. The reason for making a drug that is similar to Epogen is to help give patients access to a comparable but less expensive medicine. At the time of this study, Retacrit was still being tested and was not yet approved for use. Retacrit is now approved for use in Europe and the United States.
The purpose of this study was to learn more about switching from Epogen to Retacrit for patients with anemia and chronic kidney disease.
Patients who take medicines like Epogen or Retacrit must have blood tests regularly. These tests measure the amount of a protein in the blood called "hemoglobin", which tells doctors how well the medicine is working. Hemoglobin contains iron and helps to carry oxygen from the lungs to the body.
Usually, doctors look for a hemoglobin "target range" of 9 to 11 g/dL. Patients with hemoglobin levels below this range often have anemia symptoms.
For this study, researchers wanted to know:
Over the last 8 weeks of the study, what proportion of time were hemoglobin levels in the target range, for patients who took Retacrit compared to those who took Epogen?
090177e18f333f93\Approved\Approved On: 28-Aug-2018 05:41 (GMT)
This study compared two groups of patients to learn more about switching from Epogen to Retacrit. All patients in this study were adults with anemia and chronic kidney disease who were receiving a treatment called dialysis. Dialysis is used to remove extra water and waste from the body when the kidneys don’t work well. At the time the study started, all patients were also receiving Epogen.
The first group of patients continued receiving Epogen throughout the study. There were 206 patients in this group. The second group of patients stopped taking Epogen and took Retacrit throughout the study. There were 212 patients in this group. Both Epogen and Retacrit were given as an injection. Study doctors used a standard formula to determine the appropriate dose of Epogen or Retacrit for each patient.
