Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a disease that can cause pain and swelling (inflammation) in the joints around the spine. This is because the immune system, whose job is to attack foreign invaders like viruses and other germs, mistakenly attacks the joints instead. Patients with AS may have pain and stiffness in the lower back, buttocks, or neck, along with mild fever and fatigue. There is no cure for AS at this time, but common treatments for AS include medicines that control pain, reduce inflammation, and prevent the immune system from attacking the joints. Tofacitinib is an oral (taken by mouth) medicine that may reduce the activity of the immune system. It is being studied as a possible treatment for adults with AS, but is not approved for this use outside of research studies like this one. In this study, researchers wanted to learn more about the use of tofacitinib in people who had not been helped by or could not tolerate other drugs for AS, including non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and/or tumor necrosis factor (TNF) inhibitors. Researchers did this study to find out if tofacitinib, when compared to placebo, reduced AS symptoms and improved a patient’s ability to perform physical activities (improved physical functioning). Researchers wanted to answer this question: 
- Does tofacitinib 5 mg given twice per day improve pain, inflammation, and physical functioning in patients with AS who were not helped by other drugs, compared to placebo?
This study compared two groups of patients to find out if patients who took tofacitinib 5 mg twice per day had an improvement in AS symptoms and physical functioning, compared to patients who took placebo. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine being tested. Using a placebo helps researchers learn if the study drug works better than no treatment at all.

This study included adult men and women who: 
- Had AS that was confirmed by X-ray
- Were not helped by or could not tolerate treatment with NSAIDs, or treatment with both NSAIDs and TNF inhibitors 

Patients were checked (screened) to make sure they were a good fit for the study. Patients who were a good fit were assigned by chance alone to receive either tofacitinib or placebo for 16 weeks. This is known as a "randomized" study. This is done to make the groups more similar. Reducing differences between the groups (like age or the number of men and women) makes the groups more even to compare. This part of the trial was also "double-blinded". This means that patients and doctors did not know who was given which treatment. This was done to make sure that the trial results were not influenced in any way.

After 16 weeks of double-blinded treatment, all patients were switched to "open-label" treatment with tofacitinib for 32 weeks. Open-label means that both the doctors and patients knew which treatment they received. Finally, patients were expected to complete a 28-day follow-up period after they finish study treatment.

Patients were expected to be in the study for about 56 weeks total. The sponsor ran this study at 95 locations in Asia, Australia, Europe, and North America. It began on 7 June 2018 and ended on 20 August 2020. A total of 224 men (83%) and 45 women (17%) participated. All patients were between the ages of 20 and 70 years.

Of the 269 patients who started the study and received treatment, 252 (94%) completed it. A total of 17 patients (6%) left the study early by their choice or because a doctor decided it was best for them to stop the study.

When the study ended in August 2020, the sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.