Prostate cancer is the second most common type of cancer in men worldwide, and the sixth most common cause of cancer death in men. Most prostate cancers depend on the male sex hormone testosterone to grow. Early prostate cancer is treated by surgically removing the prostate gland, or by treating the prostate with radiation. If the cancer comes back or is more advanced, most men with prostate cancer will be treated by "castration", or lowering the amount of testosterone that their body makes. This is done either by surgery to remove the testicles, or by taking drugs that stop the testicles from making testosterone. However, about 10-20% of men will have prostate cancer that continues to get worse, even with surgery or drugs to lower testosterone. This type of prostate cancer is called "castration-resistant" prostate cancer.
Enzalutamide is an investigational medicine that reduces the activity of testosterone in the body. It does this by decreasing the ability of testosterone to connect with "androgen receptors", which are proteins on the surface of cells in the body that sense testosterone. At the time of this study, enzalutamide was approved in the United States of America (USA) and the European Union (EU) for the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer that has spread to other parts of the body (also called "metastatic" prostate cancer). However, there were no drugs approved to stop castration-resistant prostate cancer from beginning to spread to other parts of the body when this study was conducted.
The patients enrolled in this trial were men with a certain type of prostate cancer, called "castration-resistant with no evidence of metastasis". This means that their prostate cancer was getting worse, even with surgery or drugs to lower testosterone, but had not yet started to spread to other parts of the body. The researchers in this study wanted to ask:
- Do patients taking enzalutamide treatment go longer without their prostate cancer spreading to other parts of the body, or dying from any cause?
Researchers were also interested in learning more about the safety of enzalutamide. They monitored the patients for any medical problems that happened while they were taking enzalutamide, and for 30 days after they stopped taking enzalutamide. 090177e192787ea2\Approved\Approved On: 18-Dec-2019 08:19 (GMT)
This study compared two groups of patients to find out if patients taking enzalutamide went longer without their prostate cancer spreading to other parts of the body or dying from any cause, compared to patients taking a placebo. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. 
