What are HER2-positive, HER2-negative, and HER2-low tumors? Cancer is the name for a group of diseases in which abnormal cells divide without control. Most types of cancer cause solid tumors to form, which are masses of these abnormal cells. Breast cancer is cancer that begins in the breast. Gastric cancer is cancer that begins in the stomach. Some people with cancer have high levels of a certain protein receptor on the surface of their cancer cells. This protein is called HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2). A cell with too many HER2 receptors is stimulated to grow and multiply too fast and can become a cancer. When people with cancer have too much of this protein their cancer is called “HER2-positive”. When people with cancer do not have too much of this protein their cancer is called “HER2-negative”. Some people with cancer are considered to have “HER2-low” cancer, which means that their cancer is HER2-positive, but with lower amounts of HER2. What is PF-06804103? PF-06804103 is an investigational drug that was being studied for the treatment of HER2-positive breast and gastric cancers. An investigational drug is one that has not been approved for use outside of research studies. PF-06804103 is given as an IV (intravenous; through a needle in the vein) on Day 1 of 21-day or 28-day “treatment cycles”. What was the purpose of this study? The main purposes of this study were to learn more about the safety and about the possible effectiveness of PF-06804103, and to determine the recommended dose of PF-06804103 to study further. Researchers wanted to know: What medical problems did participants have? During Part 1, did participants have any “dose-limiting toxicities”? During Part 2, how many participants had a reduction in tumor size? During Part 2, how long did it take for cancer to get worse? During Part 2, how long did participants survive without cancer getting worse? During Part 2, how long did PF-06804103 continue to help cancer? “Dose-limiting toxicities” (DLTs) are certain medical problems caused by taking PF-06804103 which require the patient to lower the dose or stop taking the medicine (permanently or temporarily).
How was the study done? 
Researchers studied a group of participants to learn more about the safety and the possible effectiveness of PF-06804103, and to determine the recommended dose of PF-06804103 to study further. Participants included in the study were examined by a study doctor and determined to be appropriate to participate. They were adults. Men could join Part 1A of the study; other parts of this study enrolled women only. They had breast cancer that was estrogen-receptor or progesterone-receptor positive (meaning that hormones stimulate the growth of the tumor); Part 1A also enrolled participants with gastric cancer. They had cancer that was HER2-positive or HER2-low assessed by a diagnostic test. They had cancer that either did not adequately improve with standard treatments, returned after initially improving with standard treatments, or for which no standard treatments were available. They had cancer that was considered to be advanced (unlikely to be cured), or that had spread to other parts of the body beyond the breast or stomach.
Part 1A
This part of the study included men and women with breast cancer or stomach cancer. Participants received increasing doses of PF-06804103, starting with 0.15 milligrams (mg) per kilogram (kg) of body weight every 3 weeks, to help determine the recommended dose to study further. Part 1A participants were assigned to “cohorts” (smaller groups) of about 2 to 4 participants. So, the first cohort received 0.15 mg/kg, the second cohort received 0.5 mg/kg, and so on. The study doctors monitored the participants for DLTs. If participants from a cohort had too many DLTs, PF-06804103 doses would not be increased any further.
