What is atopic dermatitis? 
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. There is no known cure for this condition. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time.  
What is crisaborole? 
Crisaborole is a medicine that is used to treat atopic dermatitis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment twice a day. Crisaborole may improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to symptoms such as redness.  
What was the purpose of this study?  
The purpose of the study was to see if the symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis were reduced when crisaborole ointment was applied twice a day to the affected area compared to when a vehicle ointment was used. The vehicle ointment does not have any medicine in it, but it looks and feels just like the crisaborole ointment. Some participants in the study were given hydrocortisone butyrate cream (a topical corticosteroid) and others used pimecrolimus cream (a topical calcineurin inhibitor) rather than the crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment. Topical means a treatment that is used on the skin. Corticosteroid and calcineurin inhibitor creams are commonly used to treat atopic dermatitis. The researchers also included treatment with these 2 creams in the study because they also wanted to see what happened when hydrocortisone butyrate cream and pimecrolimus cream were used instead of crisaborole or vehicle ointment.  
Researchers wanted to know:  
Did symptoms of atopic dermatitis improve in areas of skin treated with crisaborole, compared to areas of skin treated with vehicle ointment or the comparator creams?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested crisaborole ointment on a group of study participants to find out if study participants treated with crisaborole had fewer symptoms of mild to moderate atopic dermatitis than participants who used a vehicle ointment. Researchers also wanted to see what would happen when hydrocortisone butyrate cream or pimecrolimus cream were used by participants instead of crisaborole ointment or vehicle ointment.
Participants went to the study center to be screened by the study doctor to make sure they were able to join the study. This was known as the “screening period” and this lasted up to 35 days. 

Participants then entered the treatment period, which started on Day 1 and lasted 28 days. During the treatment period, participants (or their parents or caregivers if the participant was a child) were to apply the ointment or cream twice a day to an area or areas of skin affected by the atopic dermatitis. 

The study participants and researchers did not know who used the crisaborole ointment and who used the vehicle ointment. Study participants would have been able to tell if they were given an ointment instead of one of the “comparator” creams as the treatment would have felt different. 

A comparator treatment is usually a treatment that is commonly given to participants with the disease being investigated. In this study, hydrocortisone butyrate cream and pimecrolimus cream were the comparator creams. The study doctors who looked at the participant’s skin to assess how the treatment was working did not know what treatment each participant had been given. This is known as an “assessor blinded” study. 

Study participants were assigned to treatment with crisaborole ointment, vehicle ointment, or the comparator treatment by chance alone. This was done to make sure that the study results were not influenced in any way. 

Each participant visited the study center on Day 1, Day 8, Day 15, Day 22, and Day 29 for the study doctors to assess their atopic dermatitis and their general health. Participants were not treated on or after Day 29 but were to remain in the study until Day 60. The participants visited the study center on Day 43 for the final study assessments. If the participant stopped treatment early, these final study assessments were done 14 days after they last used the treatment. 

Participants then received a follow-up telephone call on Day 60 (or a month after their last treatment if the participant stopped treatment early). This telephone call was to check for any medical problems. This was considered the end of the study. 

The following figure shows what happened during this study. 

Where did this study take place?
The Sponsor ran this study at 26 locations in 7 countries in Europe and in the US. 

When did this study take place?
It began on 14 May 2018 and ended on 11 December 2020. 

Who participated in this study?
The study included participants who were 2 years or older and who had mild or moderate atopic dermatitis. 
• A total of 30 men and 66 boys participated  
• A total of 61 women and 78 girls participated  
• All participants were between the ages of 2 and 78 years.  

Participants were to be treated for 28 days. Of the 235 participants who started the study, 207 completed the treatment period, and 217 finished the study. 

There were 28 participants who did not finish the treatment period because of:
• Medical problems (11 participants)  
• Not wanting to continue with treatment (13 participants)  
• Not thinking the treatment was working (3 participants), or  
• Other reasons (1 participant) 

There were 18 participants who left before the study was over by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a participant to stop being in the study. 

How long did the study last?
Study participants were in the study for 60 days or approximately 2 months. The entire study took around 2 years and 7 months to complete. 

Pfizer stopped this study before the planned end due to a business decision and not because of any concerns about how well crisaborole ointment worked in clinical studies or due to safety problems. As not all the planned participants were able to join the study because it was stopped early, the researchers did not have enough data for their analyses. This meant the researchers were not able to compare the different treatments used in this study. 

When the study ended in December 2020, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.