Invasive meningococcal disease is an illness which may cause a serious infection in the blood, as well as swelling around the brain and spinal cord. People who get this illness are at risk for disabilities such as hearing loss and loss of limbs, and even death. However, invasive meningococcal disease may be prevented with a vaccine. A vaccine is a type of medicine that helps people fight off germs.
Meningococcal disease is caused by the meningococcus germ. There are different types of this germ. For example, meningococcal type A disease is caused by the meningococcus A germ. MenACWY-TT (Nimenrix) is a vaccine approved in Europe for the prevention of meningococcal disease. This vaccine targets 4 common types of meningococcus germ: types A, C, Y, and W-135. It is given by injection into the muscle.
The main purpose of this study was to learn more about the long-term effects of Nimenrix in healthy participants, compared to another vaccine against meningococcal disease, called Mencevax® ACWY. Mencevax is also aimed at preventing meningococcal diseases caused by the meningococcus A, C, Y, and W-135 germs. Researchers wanted to know:
- Would participants who received Nimenrix still have antibodies against meningococcus germs at 6, 7, 8, 9, and 10 years after vaccination, compared to participants who received Mencevax?
To answer this question, researchers collected blood samples from the participants. The researchers looked for antibodies in the blood against the 4 different types of meningococcus germ. Antibodies are special proteins that can recognize and help kill germs. These antibodies can protect people from getting sick if they ever do come into contact with meningococcus germs.
090177e191b7d48c\Approved\Approved On: 29-Aug-2019 02:19 (GMT)
This study compared two groups of participants to learn more about the long-term effects of MenACWY-TT. The sponsor asked participants who participated in a previous study on Nimenrix to join this study. All the participants were healthy and had received vaccination with Nimenrix or Mencevax during the previous study. The participants were placed in two groups (the same groups as the previous study):
- Group 1: Participants who received Nimenrix in the previous study (235 participants)  
- Group 2: Participants who received Mencevax in the previous study (76 participants)
The participants were asked to come to up to 5 visits, each a year apart, at the study center. This was known as the “persistence phase” of the study. During these visits, the researchers collected blood samples from the participants. The researchers looked for antibodies in the blood against the four different types of meningococcus germ. 164 participants from the Nimenrix group and 56 participants from the Mencevax group received a booster dose of Nimenrix at study visit 5. This was known as the “booster phase” of the study.
This was an “open label” study, which means that the participants and the researchers knew which vaccine the participants received. 
Participants were in this study for up to four years, and the entire study took a little more than four years to complete. Participants joined the study at one of two locations in the Philippines. The first participant joined the study on 29 April 2014 and the last participant finished the study on 10 August 2018. A total of 163 men (52%) and 148 women (48%) joined the study. All participants were between 18 and 60 years old.
