What is advanced lung and breast cancer?
The participants in this study had cancer that was either non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) or triple negative breast cancer (TNBC). These are special kinds of cancer that affect the lung or the breast. Both cancer types were advanced and/or metastatic. This means the cancer had spread to other areas of the body from the lung or the breast. This makes the cancer very difficult to treat and the person will usually pass away from the cancer.
What is Vaccine-Based Immunotherapy Regimen 2?
Vaccine-Based Immunotherapy Regimen-2 (VBIR-2) is a new type of treatment being tested in patients with cancer that consists of 4 different components. Treatments are given by injection (either under the skin or into the muscle). One of the main defenses of cancer cells is the ability to hide from and avoid being destroyed by the body's immune system. The aim of VBIR-2 is to boost the participant's immune system to help it destroy some of the cancer cells.
VBIR-2 includes a cancer vaccine and a cancer vaccine booster (or booster). The cancer vaccine works to try and train immune cells in the body to recognize proteins that are used by cancer cells. Immune cells are cells that fight infections and cancer. Both the cancer vaccine and the booster work in a similar way. Once immune cells have been trained to recognize proteins used by the cancer cell, it may be able to kill that cancer cell.
VBIR-2 also includes tremelimumab and sasanlimab. These treatments are special types of protein known as "immune checkpoint inhibitors". These treatments may stop cancer cells from preventing or turning down the body's own immune response. This could mean the body's immune system is better able to see and therefore kill the cancer cell. What was the purpose of this study?
This study looked at the safety and tolerability of VBIR-2 treatment in participants with advanced cancer. The researchers did this by giving participants increasing doses of VBIR-2 and seeing if there were any dose limiting toxicities (DLTs) after treatment with VBIR-2 as well as looking at the general safety of this treatment. DLTs are medical problems that can be seen at some doses of cancer treatments; if DLTs are seen, this means that the dose of the drug needs to be reduced or stopped as it is making the patient very ill. If a patient experiences a DLT, the cancer treatment is often delayed until the patient's body can recover.
Researchers wanted to know:
- Did participants given VBIR-2 treatment have DLTs?
- What medical problems did participants have during the study?
How was the study done? Researchers tested VBIR-2 on a group of participants with advanced NSCLC or metastatic TNBC to learn about the tolerability and safety of this treatment. This was done by looking first at the safety of the vaccine and booster components of VBIR-2 and then at what would happen when the third (tremelimumab) and fourth (sasanlimab) component of the VBIR-2 treatment were added. This was Part 1 of the study. The researchers also planned to look at the effect of VBIR-2 treatment followed by maintenance therapy in participants with NSCLC in Part 2 of the study. The study was stopped before this could happen. Participants were split into groups and given injections of the components of VBIR-2 as shown in the following figure. The participants and researchers knew who took each type of study medication. This is known as an "open-label" study. The cancer vaccine was given on Day 1 and then this was repeated 4 months later. The booster was given on Day 29 and then this treatment was repeated every 4 weeks for up to 8 months. Tremelimumab (if given) and sasanlimab (if given) were administered on Day 1 and then every 4 weeks. Treatment was to be continued for up to 8 months. Researchers took samples of blood from each participant during the study and checked the participant's health. 
