```Lung cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the lungs. Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. Some patients have NSCLC that is referred to as "anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK)-negative" or "c-ros oncogene 1 (ROS1)-positive". These patients have changes in their genes that can cause cancer cells to grow.
The Sponsor is developing an anti-cancer medication called crizotinib to treat ALK-negative and ROS1-positive lung cancers. ALK and ROS1 belong to a certain group of proteins called "kinases". These proteins can help cancer cells to grow. As they grow, the cancer cells can form into a tumor and spread to other parts of the body. Crizotinib may be able to block kinases, potentially reducing tumor size and stopping ALK-negative and ROS1-positive lung cancers from being able to grow and spread. Crizotinib is known as an "ALK-inhibitor and ROS1-inhibitor" medication.
Xalkori® (crizotinib) is approved in the United States (US), Europe, and countries in East Asia including South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and China, for treatment of locally advanced (cancer has not spread to distant regions of the body but has spread to nearby organs) or metastatic (cancer has spread outside lungs) NSCLC that are ALK-positive. Crizotinib is also approved in the US and Europe for advanced (metastatic) NSCLC whose tumors have an ROS1 gene alteration, resulting in ROS1-positive NSCLC. Crizotinib is given in a capsule and is taken by mouth twice daily at around the same time every morning and every evening.
The main purpose of this study was to see if treatment with crizotinib is useful in patients in East-Asia, including South Korea, Taiwan, Japan, and China, with ROS1-positive and ALK-negative NSCLC. To do this, researchers asked:
How well did crizotinib treatment work to keep ROS1-positive and ALK-negative NSCLC from growing?
The researchers also wanted to know if any of the patients' cancer got smaller during the study. To do this, they measured many things, including the "Objective Response Rate". This is the percentage of patients whose cancer disappeared or got smaller during treatment.
Researchers were also interested in learning more about the safety of crizotinib. They monitored the patients for any medical problems that happened while they were taking crizotinib or after they stopped taking crizotinib.```
The study included patients who had NSCLC (referred to as “disease” in this summary) that was advanced or has spread to other parts of the body during or after earlier treatment and was caused by a defect in a gene called receptor tyrosine kinase (C-ROS1). 
A total of 129 patients with ALK-negative and ROS1-positive NSCLC joined this study and 127 patients were treated with crizotinib. 
This was an open-label study, which means that both the patients and researchers knew which study drug and dose they received. The figure below shows what happened during this study. 
Patients in this study took crizotinib 2 times per day in “cycles” that lasted 28 days. They began with a dose of 250 mg. The patients were watched closely for any medical problems. 
While patients were only in the study for an average of 102 weeks, the entire study took almost 7 years to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at 40 locations in 4 countries in East Asia (Japan, China, South Korea, and Taiwan). It began 25 September 2013 and ended 22 January 2020. Fifty-four (54) men and seventy-three (73) women participated. All patients were between the ages of 23 and 80. 
Patients were to be treated until their cancer stopped responding or got worse, until they developed unacceptable medical problems, or until they chose to stop treatment. 
Of the 127 patients who started the study, all patients stopped the study; 65 patients (51%) died. A total of 18 patients (14%) had stopped the study by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study. Forty-four (44) patients (35%) were still ongoing in the study when the study was closed and, if they were still on treatment, they were moved to either commercial treatment available in their country or they enrolled into another study (Study A8081067). 
