Some women with breast cancer have high levels of a certain protein receptor on the surface of their cancer cells. This protein is called HER2 (human epidermal growth factor receptor 2). A cell with too many HER2 receptors is stimulated to grow and multiply too fast and can become a cancer tumor. When women with breast cancer have too much of this protein, their cancer is called "HER2-positive".
Trastuzumab (Herceptin®) is an approved drug for the treatment of patients with HER2-positive breast cancer. PF-05280014 was the investigational drug in this study. An investigational drug is one that is not approved for sale.
Researchers think that PF-05280014 may work like Herceptin in the body. Herceptin is an antibody, which is a type of protein. Herceptin binds to the HER2 receptor on the surface of cells. By attaching to the HER2 receptor, this medicine can block the signals that cause the cells to grow and multiply.
Patients who were in this study received either PF-05280014 or Herceptin in combination with paclitaxel. Paclitaxel is a standard chemotherapy treatment for breast cancer. It was used in this study because it is commonly given to patients by doctors for the treatment of breast cancer.
The main purpose of this study was to find out if PF-05280014 worked similarly to Herceptin in patients with breast cancer. Researchers wanted to answer this question:
- What percentage of patients who received PF-05280014 and paclitaxel had a reduction in tumor size, compared to patients who received Herceptin and paclitaxel?
This study compared two groups of patients. Researchers wanted to find out if PF-05280014 worked similarly to Herceptin in patients with breast cancer. This study included adult women who: had HER2-positive breast cancer, had breast cancer that had spread to another part of the body, had at least one breast cancer tumor that could be measured. The patients and researchers did not know who received PF-05280014 and who received Herceptin. This is known as a “double-blinded” study. Researchers use “double-blinded” studies to make sure that the results of the study are not influenced in any way.
First, patients were checked (screened) to make sure they met all the requirements to be in the study. Then, patients were put into one of two treatment groups by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study. This is done to make the groups more similar for things like age and race. Reducing differences between the groups makes the groups more even to compare. Patients had a 50% chance (1 in 2 chances, like the flip of a coin) of getting either treatment.
For at least the first 33 weeks of the study, patients were treated with PF-05280014 or Herceptin every week. Depending on how the patient was doing, the treatments were given in at least 6 “cycles”, with a new cycle starting every 4 weeks. Paclitaxel was given weekly for the first 3 weeks of each cycle. After 33 weeks and treatment with paclitaxel had stopped, depending on how the patient was doing, the study doctor could change the PF-05280014 or Herceptin treatment schedule to every 3 weeks.
After completing study treatment, patients were followed by researchers to see how they did after taking study medicines. Patients were expected to receive study treatment until their breast cancer worsened. The entire study took more than 6 years to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at 168 locations in 25 countries in North America, South America, Europe, and Asia. It began 24 February 2014 and ended 27 June 2020. All patients were women between the ages of 19 and 85 years.
The figure below shows what happened in the study. A total of 707 patients joined the study, but 5 patients (1%) did not receive any study treatment. 451 patients (64%) finished the study. 251 patients (35%) left before the study was over by their choice, because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study, because they passed away, or because the Sponsor stopped the study.
