What is metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer?
Prostate cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the prostate, which is a small, walnut-sized gland that lies at the base of the bladder in men and is part of the male reproductive system. Prostate cancer is a common cancer in men, and it is often a slow-growing cancer with few symptoms.
"Metastatic" means that the cancer has spread to a part of the body beyond the prostate. In earlier stages of the disease, male hormones, or "androgens", are usually stimulating prostate cancer cells to grow. "Castration-resistant" means that the prostate cancer continued to worsen despite receiving treatment that reduces androgen production from the testis.
What is talazoparib?
Talazoparib (Talzenna®) is known as a PARP inhibitor. PARP inhibitors are drugs that stop the normal activity of certain proteins called "Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases", also called "PARPs". PARPs are proteins that are found in all normal and cancer cells, and that are involved in the repair of DNA. PARPs are needed to repair mistakes that can happen in DNA when cells divide. If the mistakes are not repaired, the cell will usually die and be replaced. Cells with mistakes in their DNA that do not die can become cancer cells. This is known as a "DNA-repair defect". PARP inhibitors selectively kill specific cancer cells through a mechanism called "synthetic lethality", in which loss of function in 2 genes together causes cell death, but a loss of function in either gene alone would not. Clinical trials have shown that the use of talazoparib, as well as other PARP inhibitors, may reduce tumor size and slow tumor growth in some men with prostate cancer. Talazoparib is given in a capsule and is taken by mouth once daily at around the same time every day.
What was the purpose of this study?
The main purposes of this study were to learn more about the safety and about the possible effectiveness of talazoparib in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and DNA-repair defects.
Researchers wanted to know:
How many participants had a partial or complete response to talazoparib treatment?
What medical problems did participants have or report during the study?
How was the study done?
Researchers studied a group of participants to learn more about the safety and the possible effectiveness of talazoparib in men with metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer and DNA-repair defects. Participants included in the study were examined by a study doctor and determined to be appropriate to participate, were adult men. They had a recent biopsy of their prostate cancer, had confirmed prostate cancer with a DNA-repair defect (mistake in DNA), and were currently either receiving drugs or had their testes removed with the aim to reduce androgen in the body. This strategy is called ADT (androgen deprivation therapy). They had prostate cancer that was metastatic and was progressive (getting worse). They had previously been treated with 1 or 2 different chemotherapy regimens.
First, a study doctor checked each potential participant to make sure they were appropriate to join the study. This is known as the screening period. Most participants received 1 milligram (mg) talazoparib once a day (participants with moderate kidney disease received 0.75 mg talazoparib once a day), and could continue receiving talazoparib until their cancer worsened, they had unacceptable medical problems, they chose to stop taking talazoparib, they passed away, or they were no longer benefitting from talazoparib. Participants also continued to take ADT throughout the study. This was an open-label study, which means that the participants, researchers, and study doctors knew which treatment the participants received.
