```Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a common "inherited" blood disorder. Inherited means it is passed down from parents to their children and so runs in families. In the United States, approximately 100,000 people have SCD while around the world it is estimated that at least 5 million people have SCD. A further 100 million people worldwide are thought to carry the SCD trait. This means they may pass SCD to their children, although they do not have any symptoms of SCD themselves. While most people with SCD in the United States are African-American or African, the disease can affect many different ethnic groups including people from the Middle East, India, and the Southern Mediterranean. 
Many people with SCD will develop a condition known as an "acute pain crisis" or "vaso-occlusive crisis" (VOC). This happens when cells in the blood of a person with SCD block blood vessels ("vascular occlusion"). This limits blood flow and oxygen delivery to areas of the body ("tissue ischemia"), which causes pain. 
Rivipansel is a new type of treatment that was expected to be able to interrupt or lessen the events in the blood vessels that lead to a VOC. The researchers in this study wanted to see if rivipansel treatment could shorten the time that patients had to stay in the hospital for treatment of a VOC.```
This study compared two groups of patients who had SCD to find out if patients given rivipansel spent less time in the hospital before they were ready to be discharged than patients given a “placebo”. A placebo does not have any medicine in it but it looks just like the medicine. The study included patients who were admitted to hospital for treatment of a VOC and needed “intravenous” opioids to provide pain relief. Intravenous means the drug is given into a vein. The patients and researchers did not know who was given rivipansel and who was given placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. Patients who opted to join the study were assigned to each group randomly (by chance alone) making this a randomized study. Randomization allows researchers to better compare the two treatment groups (rivipansel versus placebo).
While individual patients were only in the study for up to 43 days (up to 8 days of treatment with rivipansel or placebo while in the hospital followed by safety assessments for up to 35 days after discharge), the entire study took four years to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at 62 locations in the United States and Canada. It began on 17 June 2015 and ended on 27 June 2019. 162 men or boys and 183 women or girls participated. All patients who participated were between the ages of 6 and 59 years. Patients were to be treated with up to 15 doses of rivipansel or placebo, which was given every 12 hours. Treatment was stopped when a patient was ready to be discharged from the hospital. There were 345 patients who were randomized and started the study and 320 patients who received at least one dose of study treatment.
