Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. There is no known cure for this condition. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time.
Researchers are looking for treatments for atopic dermatitis. Crisaborole is a medicine that is used to treat atopic dermatitis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment. Crisaborole may improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to symptoms such as redness.
The main goal of this study was to learn more about how crisaborole works by taking skin samples to analyze for "biomarkers", which are special substances in the skin related to inflammation. Researchers wanted to answer these main questions:
- Did atopic dermatitis "biomarkers" change in areas of skin that were treated with crisaborole, compared to areas of skin that were treated with plain ointment?
- Did symptoms of atopic dermatitis improve in areas of skin that were treated with crisaborole, compared to areas of skin that were treated with plain ointment?
This study included patients who were treated with both crisaborole and plain ointment on 2 different areas of the skin. The areas of skin were then compared to see if atopic dermatitis symptoms would improve in the areas that were treated with crisaborole. The study included adult patients with atopic dermatitis. To join the study, patients must have had at least 2 areas of atopic dermatitis that were 3 centimeters x 3 centimeters or larger, and at least 5 centimeters apart. Symptoms must have started at least 6 months before the study began, and must have been stable for at least 1 month. 
Patients were screened by the study doctor to make sure they were able to join the study. This was known as the “screening period”, which lasted up to 30 days. Patients then entered the “double-blind” treatment period, which lasted 15 days. Double-blind means that patients and doctors did not know which area of skin was treated with which medicine. This was done to make sure that the trial results were not influenced in any way. For each patient, 1 area of skin was treated with crisaborole, and 1 area of skin was treated with plain ointment. Patients came to the study center twice per day during this part of the study, so that they could receive treatment and be checked by the study doctor.
On day 15 of the study, samples of the treated skin were collected to be used for testing. Patients then entered the “open-label” treatment period, which lasted another 28 days until day 43 of the study. During this part of the study, patients stopped using the plain ointment and could use crisaborole to treat all areas of the skin affected by atopic dermatitis (except the scalp). Open-label means that patients and doctors knew which medicine was being used.
Patients received a follow-up phone call on day 71 to check for any medical problems. This was considered the end of the study. The figure below shows what happened during this study.
While patients were only in the study for 71 days, the entire study lasted about 9 months from start to finish. The sponsor ran this study at 1 location in Canada. It began 31 July 2017 and ended 4 May 2018. A total of 13 men (33%) and 27 women (68%) participated. All patients were between the ages of 18 and 57.
