Streptococcus pneumoniae is a bacteria that can cause serious diseases, including infections 
of the lung (pneumonia), brain lining (meningitis), blood (bacteremia), or ear (otitis).  
These infections may be very serious in young children and older adults. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae is also known as S. pneumoniae. There are 100 types of S. pneumoniae.
This study is about a vaccine called the “20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, 
or 20vPnC. A vaccine is used to help prevent infection by helping the body to fight 
off germs. 20vPnC may help to prevent infections caused by S. pneumoniae. It is called 
"20-valent" because 20vPnC prevents 20 of the most common types of S. pneumoniae.
20vPnC is an investigational vaccine, which means that it has not been approved for 
general use and it is not yet known if it will protect against disease
caused by S. pneumoniae, although studies are ongoing to assess how well 20vPnC 
works.
After a vaccine is injected into a person’s body, the body responds to help fight 
infections and prevent diseases. The response to vaccines includes making 
“antibodies”, which are proteins that fight infections and help to prevent diseases.  
In the United States, the “13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, or 13vPnC, is 
currently approved for preventing S. pneumoniae diseases in children and adults.  
13vPnC is made up of components to prevent diseases caused by 13 types of 
S. pneumoniae. 20vPnC has the same components found in 13vPnC, plus 7 additional 
components that may widen protection. 
The purpose of this study was to learn about the safety of 20vPnC and about the 
body’s antibody response to 3 different batches, or “lots”, of 20vPnC. These 
3 different lots contained the same components and were made in the same way. The 
researchers needed to compare 3 different lots of vaccine to be sure that the vaccines 
worked the same way and were safe to use.
090177e194c1db5b\Approved\Approved On: 27-Aug-2020 05:48 (GMT)
To learn about the body’s antibody response, researchers asked this question:
Did 20vPnC produce similar antibody responses in participants when it was
manufactured in 3 different lots?
To answer this question, the researchers measured the amount of antibodies in 
participants’ blood 1 month after being vaccinated.
To learn about the safety of 20vPnC, researchers asked these questions:  
What was the percentage of participants that had redness, swelling, or pain at 
the injection site within 10 days after being vaccinated with 20vPnC?
What was the percentage of participants that had fever, headache, tiredness, 
muscle pain, or joint pain within 7 days after being vaccinated with 20vPnC?
What medical problems did participants have within 1 month after being 
vaccinated with 20vPnC?
Did participants have any serious medical problems or any newly diagnosed 
chronic medical problems within 6 months after being vaccinated with 
20vPnC?
This study compared 3 groups of participants to learn about the body’s antibody response to 20vPnC. The information from the combined 20vPnC groups and a “control group” that received 13vPnC were used to learn about safety. A control group is a group of participants that do not receive the vaccine being studied. In this study, 13vPnC was used as the control because it is commonly used for preventing S. pneumoniae diseases.

Participants were checked (screened) to make sure they were a good fit for the study. This study included adult men and women who:
- Were between the ages of 18 and 49 years
- Were considered to be healthy or with stable chronic disease by the study doctors
- Did not have a disease or take medicine that would be associated with a weakened immune system
- Had never received any vaccine for S.pneumoniae

This was a “randomized” study, which means that participants were assigned to groups based on chance alone. Randomization is done to make the groups similar so that differences in antibody response or safety are most likely due to the different vaccines people received. 

This study was also “double-blinded”. This means that participants and study staff members who administered the vaccine did not know who was given which vaccine. This was done to make sure that the study results were not influenced in any way.

Participants who were a good fit for the study were assigned by chance alone to receive 1 of 4 vaccines:
- 20vPnC, Lot 1 (488 participants)
- 20vPnC, Lot 2 (489 participants)
- 20vPnC, Lot 3 (486 participants)
- 13vPnC (245 participants)

Participants were expected to participate in 3 study visits. At the first visit, blood samples were collected, and the participants received the vaccine. The second visit was done about 1 month after the first visit. Blood samples were collected, and participants were checked for any medical problems. The third visit was done over the phone at the end of the study, and participants were asked about any medical problems.

While participants were in this study for about 6 months, the entire study took about 9 months to complete since not all participants entered the study at the same time. The Sponsor ran this study at 21 locations in the United States. It began 14 February 2019 and ended 9 October 2019. 593 men (35%) and 1115 women (65%) participated. All participants were between the ages of 18 and 49 years.

Of the 1708 participants who joined the study and received vaccine, 1635 (96%) finished it. A total of 73 participants (4%) left the study early by their choice or because a doctor decided it was best for them to stop the study.

Throughout the course of the study, the Sponsor reviewed the data. When the study ended in October 2019 and after antibody testing was completed, the Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.