The 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (13vPnC) may help prevent pneumococcal disease caused by the "bacteria", or germ, Streptococcus pneumoniae. This germ is also known as S. pneumoniae, pneumococcus, or pneumococci. S. pneumoniae can spread from person to person through coughing and sneezing. Sometimes the S. pneumoniae can cause pneumococcal disease. This can include infections in the ear and/or in the "sinuses", which are the spaces in the bones behind the nose, as well as more serious conditions such as "meningitis" or "pneumonia". Meningitis happens when S. pneumoniae infects the coverings around the brain and spinal cord, and pneumonia happens when the pneumococcal infection is in the lungs.
When given the 13vPnC vaccine, a person's immune system makes antibodies against 13 different sugars in the vaccine. These sugars are like the ones found on the surface of S. pneumoniae, with a different sugar on the surface of each strain or type of S. pneumoniae. The immune system is what defends the body from germs like S. pneumoniae. Antibodies are germ-fighting proteins that can recognize 13 common strains of S. pneumoniae that cause people to become sick. Once the immune system recognizes the pneumococci, the immune system can then kill the pneumococci and stop an infection from developing in someone who has been vaccinated. This will only happen if the infection is caused by 1 of the 13 most common types of S. pneumoniae that the vaccine protects against.
13vPnC is a vaccine that has been approved for sale in many countries, including Europe and Japan where it is sold as Prevenar 13® and the United States where it is known as Prevnar 13®. In Japan, the 13vPnC vaccine can be given to infants and children under 6 years and to people who are aged 65 years and older. This vaccine is not currently licensed for use in people aged 6 to 64 years in Japan. The researchers did this study to learn more about how this vaccine works in Japanese people aged 6 to 64 years.
This study compared two groups of participants, children and adolescents aged 6 to under 18 years and adults aged 18 to under 65 years, to find out if participants given 13vPnC were able to make antibodies that recognize 13 common types of S. pneumoniae. The researchers also wanted to see if the participants had any safety issues in the month after having the 13vPnC vaccine. The study participants were all Japanese people with illnesses that mean they are more likely to get pneumococcal disease. 
All participants in this study received a single dose of 13vPnC on day 1 at the start of the study. While participants were only in the study for approximately one month, the entire study took approximately four months to complete. The sponsor ran this study at eight locations across Japan. It began on 12 July 2018 and ended on 16 November 2018. There were 31 boys and 22 girls aged 7 to 17 years as well as 76 men and 77 women aged 18 to 64 years who participated. All of the 206 participants were between the ages of 7 and 64 years. 
