Parkinson's disease is a disease of the nervous system that affects movement. Patients with Parkinson's disease can have many symptoms, such as weakness, tremor, stiff muscles, and slowed movements. These are known as "motor symptoms." The symptoms of Parkinson's disease usually develop slowly over several years. Doctors aren't sure exactly what causes Parkinson's disease, but it occurs when certain nerve cells in the brain die. These nerve cells are found in the part of the brain that controls movement, and they make a chemical called "dopamine." Many medicines used to treat Parkinson's disease work by increasing the amount of dopamine in the brain, which could help decrease Parkinson's symptoms.
PF-06649751 was studied as a possible treatment for Parkinson's disease. The main goal of this study was to learn more about the use of PF-06649751 in patients with Parkinson's disease who were at an early stage of the disease. Researchers wanted to answer this question:
- Did motor symptoms decrease in patients who received PF-06649751, compared to patients who received placebo?
A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine.
This study compared two groups of patients to find out if motor symptoms would decrease in patients taking PF-06649751, compared to patients taking placebo. The study included patients with early stage Parkinson’s disease who had motor symptoms. To be eligible to join the study, patients must not have used a dopamine medicine for longer than 28 days, or within 7 days of beginning the study. Patients in this study were assigned to receive either PF-06649751 or placebo. The patients and researchers did not know who took PF-06649751 and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. Patients were assigned to each treatment group by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study. Putting people into groups by chance helps make the groups more similar so they can be compared.
First, patients were checked by a study doctor to make sure they met the requirements to join the study. This was called the screening period, which lasted 30 days. During the treatment period, which lasted 15 weeks, patients received either PF-06649751 or placebo. The treatment period included two parts: a 9-week “dose optimization period”. During this part of the study, the dose was gradually increased each week, as tolerated by the patient. The target dose was 3 to 15 milligrams of PF-06649751 or matching placebo, taken each day. And a 6-week “maintenance period”. During this part of the study, patients were to receive the target dose of PF-06649751 or matching placebo each day. During the treatment period, patients had study appointment visits to be checked by study doctors to determine if motor symptoms were improving. Patients were also asked about any medical problems they were having.
