Streptococcus pneumoniae is a bacteria that can cause serious diseases, including infections 
of the lung (pneumonia), brain lining (meningitis), blood (bacteremia), or ear (otitis).  
These infections may be very serious in young children and older adults. Streptococcus 
pneumoniae is also known as S. pneumoniae. There are 100 types of S. pneumoniae.
This study is about a vaccine called the “20-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, 
or 20vPnC. A vaccine is used to help prevent infection by helping the body to fight 
off germs. 20vPnC may help to prevent infections caused by S. pneumoniae. It is called 
"20-valent" because 20vPnC prevents 20 of the most common types of S. pneumoniae.
20vPnC is an investigational vaccine, which means that it has not been approved for 
general use and it is not yet known if it will protect against disease caused by 
S. pneumoniae, although studies are ongoing to assess how well 20vPnC works.
After a vaccine is injected into a person’s body, the body responds to help fight 
infections and prevent diseases. The response to vaccines includes making 
“antibodies”, which are proteins that fight infections and help to prevent diseases.  
In the United States, the “13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine”, or 13vPnC, is 
currently approved for preventing S. pneumoniae diseases in children and adults.  
13vPnC is made up of components to prevent diseases caused by 13 types of 
S. pneumoniae. 20vPnC has the same components found in 13vPnC, plus 7 additional 
components that may widen protection. The Pneumovax 23 vaccine, or PPSV23, is 
made up of components to prevent diseases caused by 23 types of S. pneumoniae.
The purpose of this study was to learn about the safety and about the antibody 
response to 20vPnC.  
To learn about the antibody response, researchers asked these questions:
- For the 13 components found in both 13vPnC and 20vPnC, did participants 
aged 60 or older who received 20vPnC have antibody responses that were 
within a range considered to be comparable (noninferior) to those who 
received 13vPnC?
- For the 7 additional components found in both PPSV23 and 20vPnC, did 
participants aged 60 or older who received 20vPnC have antibody responses 
that were within a range comparable to those who received PPSV23?
To answer this question, the researchers measured the amount of antibodies in 
participants’ blood 1 month after being vaccinated.
To learn about the safety of 20vPnC, researchers asked these questions:  
- What percentage of participants had redness, swelling, or pain at the injection 
site within 10 days after being vaccinated?
- What percentage of participants had fever, headache, tiredness, muscle pain, or 
joint pain within 7 days after being vaccinated?
- What significant medical problems did participants have within 1 month after 
being vaccinated?
- Did participants have any newly diagnosed chronic medical problems or any 
serious medical problems within 6 months after being vaccinated?
This study included three different age ranges of participants to learn about the safety and about the antibody response to 20vPnC. The main age range studied was participants 60 years old and above. The vaccines used in this study included 20vPnC, 13vPnC, PPSV23, and salt water (saline) placebo. A placebo is given in the same way as the vaccines used in study but does not have active ingredients. 20vPnC and 13vPnC looked the same, however, the saline and PPSV23 looked different and were injected by staff that were not involved in other aspects of the study. Participants were asked to turn their heads when the PPSV23 or saline was injected so they would not know which one they had received.
