Breast cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer in women. In 2012, around 1.7 million women were diagnosed with this disease around the world. Men can also get breast cancer, though this is quite rare. Some breast cancers are caused by "mutations" in "DNA" in the Breast Cancer "genes" 1 and 2, which are more commonly known as BRCA1 and BRCA2. DNA is a material inside the cells of all living things that controls how cells in the body grow. Genes are parts of DNA that contain the code for a specific feature, like eye color. Mutations are changes in the DNA that can alter how a cell will behave. If the BRCA1 and BRCA2 genes have mutations then this may cause breast cancer. These mutations can be inherited from a parent with this mutation or through chance, which is like the roll of a dice. Special proteins known as "poly (ADP-ribose) polymerase" or "PARP" are found in all cells, and these proteins can help damaged cells fix or repair themselves so that the cell survives. When PARP helps cancer cells fix or repair themselves, it means that the cancer cell (and the tumor it is part of) can continue to grow and spread. Talazoparib is a "PARP inhibitor," which means it is a drug that can help stop the normal activity of PARP. At the time of this study, talazoparib was an "investigational drug". An investigational drug means that the treatment has not been approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA), the European Medicines Agency (EMA), or other regulatory agencies. This study was carried out to see if talazoparib could help reduce tumor size and slow growth in people with advanced breast cancer who have inherited mutations in the BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes from a parent. On 16 October 2018, talazoparib received approval from the FDA for use in some people with breast cancer. While this study was taking place, the sponsor decided it was better to recruit patients into a Phase 3 study that compared talazoparib with usual treatment for breast cancer rather than enroll patients into this study. This study was stopped early on 31 October 2018, and the sponsor transferred patients who were still being treated with talazoparib into another study.
All patients in this study received talazoparib. The researchers wanted to find out if a patient’s previous breast cancer treatment could change the way talazoparib was able to treat the tumor. Some patients with cancer are given chemotherapy with drugs containing platinum while others are given chemotherapy with drugs that do not contain platinum. This study included 2 different groups of patients previously treated for breast cancer as shown in the table below. The patients in both of these groups had breast cancer that was advanced and difficult to treat.
Description of Treatment Groups:
Group 1: Previous Treatment for Breast Cancer - Prior chemotherapy with drugs containing platinum (platinum-based therapy) like cisplatin or carboplatin. Patients initially responded to treatment, and while the cancer came back, this occurred more than 8 weeks after the last dose of platinum-therapy. The number of patients treated was 48b.
Group 2: Previous treatment with 3 or more courses of chemotherapy with drugs like docetaxel, paclitaxel, doxorubicin, capecitabine, vinorelbine, or eribulin that are not based on a platinum drug. Use of a platinum-based therapy before or after surgery was allowed providing the cancer did not return within 6  
The study included patients who: Were 18 years or older, Had breast cancer that was advanced and not suitable for radiotherapy or surgery or had “metastatic disease”, which is when the cancer has spread to other parts of the body, Inherited the BRCA 1 or BRCA 2 gene mutation.
Patients joined the study at 1 of 34 sites in the United States (US), United Kingdom (UK), France, Germany, and Spain. The study began on 13 December 2013 when the first patient had their first visit. All patients were aged between 31 years and 75 years, and nearly all were women. There were 2 men treated in the study, with 1 in each group. There were originally 84 patients who joined the study, but 1 patient left before receiving treatment with talazoparib. A total of 83 patients were treated with talazoparib in this study until their doctor determined their cancer was getting worse, the side effects were too severe, the patient decided they wanted to leave the study, or the study was closed by the Sponsor. The main reason patients treated with talazoparib left the study was because they passed away (81%, or 67 out of the 83 treated patients).
As of 01 September 2016 (the data cutoff date for the full report), 10 patients from the group previously treated with platinum-based treatment (21%, or 10 out of the 48 treated patients) and 16 patients from the group previously treated with 3 or more chemotherapy courses with non- platinum drugs (46%, or 16 out of the 35 treated patients) were still in the study but were “off-treatment” and not taking talazoparib. In addition, 5 patients from the group previously treated with platinum-based treatment (10%, or 5 out of 48 treated patients) and 4 patients from the group previously treated with 3 or more chemotherapy courses with non- platinum drugs (11%, or 4 out of 35 treated patients) were “on-treatment” and taking talazoparib. These on-treatment patients were followed until 31 October 2018, when the study was closed early by the Sponsor. At the time the study ended, 2 out of these 9 patients were continuing to receive talazoparib treatment. As these 2 patients were benefitting from talazoparib, the Sponsor transferred them into another study so they could continue this treatment.
