Transthyretin amyloid polyneuropathy (ATTR-PN) is a rare and life-threatening medical condition which worsens over time. There are about 10,000 people in the world known to have ATTR-PN. People with this condition have a particular protein, known as transthyretin amyloid, in their nerves. This can lead to problems with the nervous system, such as weakness, numbness, or pain in the hands and feet (known as "neuropathy") and difficulty walking. ATTR-PN is caused by a genetic mutation (change) in the transthyretin (TTR) gene. The most common genetic mutation that causes ATTR-PN is called "Val30Met".
Tafamidis is a study drug approved in some countries to treat adult patients with ATTR-PN to delay neurological symptoms. The researchers in this study were interested in learning more about the long-term safety and effects of tafamidis.
This study had several purposes:
• To continue to study if tafamidis is safe and the potential effects of tafamidis in patients with ATTR-PN over the long-term.
• To continue to provide tafamidis to patients with ATTR-PN who had participated in previous clinical trials for tafamidis and were benefiting from taking it.
This study included adult patients with ATTR-PN who had participated in prior studies with tafamidis and never had a heart or liver transplant. All patients in this study received tafamidis 20 milligrams, taken once per day every day by mouth. Patients were asked to attend clinic visits every 6 months, and were contacted by phone 3 months after each clinic visit. There was also a follow-up contact 30 days after patients stopped taking tafamidis to check for any medical problems. This was an "open-label" study, which means that both the patients and researchers knew what medicine was being given.
The figure below shows what happened during this study. There was no specific amount of time that patients were required to stay in the study, but the time from when the first patient started to when the last patient ended was about 11 years. The Sponsor ran this study at 9 locations in North America, South America, and Europe. It began 5 August 2009 and ended 8 July 2020. 47 patients (51%) were women and 46 patients (49%) were men. All patients were between the ages of 26 and 78 years old when they started in this study.
Patients could be treated for up to 10 years or until tafamidis became available by prescription in their country. Patients who left the study when they got a prescription for tafamidis were called completers. Of the 93 patients who started the study, 68 patients (73%) were completers. 25 patients (27%) left before the study was over by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study, or because they passed away.
When the study ended in July 2020, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report. WHAT MEDICAL PROBLEMS DID PATIENTS HAVE DURING THE STUDY? The researchers recorded any medical problems the patients had during the study. Patients could have had medical problems for reasons not related to the study (for example, caused by another illness they have or by chance). Or, medical problems could also have been caused by a study treatment or by another medicine the patient was taking. Sometimes the cause of a medical problem is unknown. By comparing medical problems across many treatment groups in many studies, doctors try to understand what the side effects of an experimental drug might be.
86 out of 93 patients (93%) had at least 1 medical problem, including 35 out of 38 patients (92%) with Val30Met who received tafamidis only in their previous study, 33 out of 37 patients (89%) with Val30Met who received placebo followed by tafamidis in their previous study, and 18 out of 18 patients (100%) without Val30Met who received tafamidis in their previous study.
A total of 6 patients (7%) left the study due to medical problems, including 3 patients (8%) with Val30Met who received tafamidis in their previous study, 1 patient (3%) with Val30Met who received placebo followed by tafamidis in their previous study, and 2 patients (11%) without Val30Met who received tafamidis in their previous study.
