Non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. In some patients with NSCLC, their cancer cells have changes (mutations) in the gene that makes a protein called epidermal growth factor receptor, or "EGFR". These mutations in EGFR help stimulate cancer cells to grow and multiply. Researchers are looking for better treatments for patients with NSCLC whose cancer cells have mutations in the EGFR gene.
Dacomitinib (Vizimpro®) is a medicine that has been approved in the United States, Japan, and the European Union as a treatment for patients with NSCLC. At the time of this study, dacomitinib was not yet approved for the treatment of patients with NSCLC. Dacomitinib works by blocking the activity of a group of proteins called the human epidermal growth factor receptor (HER) family (including EGFR [also known as HER1], HER2, and HER4). These are proteins on the surface of cells that can stimulate cancer cells to grow and multiply. By blocking the activity of these proteins, dacomitinib may be able to help limit the growth and spread of cancer cells. Dacomitinib is given as a tablet once a day to be taken by mouth.
The purpose of this study was to provide continued access to dacomitinib for patients who participated in other dacomitinib studies in Japan and would be deemed to derive benefit from continued dacomitinib treatment.
Researchers also wanted to learn more about the safety of dacomitinib. They monitored the patients for any medical problems that happened while they were in the study.
This study evaluated a group of patients who received dacomitinib in previous studies for advanced NSCLC to have them continue treatment with dacomitinib. The study included patients who had advanced NSCLC and who received dacomitinib in a previous study in Japan (Study A7471009 or Study A7471050) without unpleasant side effects based on the researcher’s evaluation. For this study, three different dose strengths of dacomitinib oral tablets were planned, 45 mg per day, 30 mg per day, and 15 mg per day. The dose strength patients started on in this study was the same as the dose the patient ended on in the previous study. There were seven patients included in this study; five patients started at a dose of 15 mg once a day and two patients started at a dose of 30mg once a day. 
