Breast cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer deaths in women. In 2012, about 1.7 million women were diagnosed with breast cancer and over 522,000 women died due to the disease. Some people carry changes or "mutations" in their DNA in genes called breast cancer susceptibility (BRCA) genes 1 and 2, or "BRCA1" and "BRCA2". BRCA gene mutations can be inherited by a child from one of their parents (germline). When a person's BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes contain mutations, it can cause breast cancer. Researchers are looking for treatments for breast cancer patients with BRCA mutations that can help them have more time without their cancer getting worse.
Talazoparib (Talzenna®) is a drug that inhibits (stops) the normal activity of certain proteins called "Poly (ADP-ribose) polymerases", also called "PARPs". PARPs are proteins (made from genes which are part of DNA) that are found in all normal and cancer cells that are involved in the repair of DNA. PARPs are needed to repair mistakes that can happen in DNA when cells divide. If the mistakes are not repaired, the cell will usually die and be replaced. Cells with mistakes in their DNA (like cells with BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutations) that do not die can become cancer cells. Clinical trials have shown that the use of talazoparib, as well as other PARP inhibitors, can reduce tumor size or delay the cancer getting worse, and slow tumor growth in some cancer patients with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations. Talazoparib is given in a capsule and is taken by mouth once daily at around the same time every day. Talazoparib is now approved in the United States, the European Union, and other countries for the treatment of patients with a certain type of breast cancer that has spread beyond the original tumor ("advanced") or has spread to other parts of the body ("metastatic") and have an inherited BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation. This study was done to see if talazoparib treatment could help patients with advanced or metastatic breast cancer, and have inherited a BRCA1 or BRCA2 gene mutation, have more time without their cancer getting worse when compared to commonly used chemotherapies.
