Prostate cancer is the name for cancer that starts in the prostate, which is a small, walnut-sized gland that lies at the base of the bladder in men and is part of the male reproductive system.
Prostate cancer is a common cancer in men, and it is often a slow-growing cancer with few symptoms.
Enzalutamide is a prescription medicine that is approved to treat men with prostate cancer. Enzalutamide works by interfering with the connections between androgens (a type of hormone that plays a role in male traits and reproductive) and androgen receptors (a protein in the body that attaches to androgens). This may help to slow the growth of prostate cancer.
The main goal of this study was to learn more about the use of enzalutamide in patients with prostate cancer that did not sufficiently improve after receiving treatment to block androgens. Researchers wanted to answer this research question:
- How long did patients survive without prostate cancer getting worse after receiving enzalutamide, compared to bicalutamide?
Bicalutamide is a medicine approved to treat men with prostate cancer.
This study compared two groups of patients to find out how long patients would survive without prostate cancer getting worse after receiving enzalutamide, compared to bicalutamide. The study included patients who had prostate cancer that did not sufficiently improve after receiving treatment to block androgens. These patients had either mild prostate cancer symptoms or no prostate cancer symptoms when the study began. Patients in this study were assigned to receive either enzalutamide or bicalutamide. The patients and researchers did not know who took enzalutamide and who took bicalutamide. This is known as a "blinded" study. Patients were assigned to each treatment group by chance alone. This is known as a "randomized" study. Putting people into groups by chance helps make the groups more similar so they can be compared.

First, patients were checked by a study doctor to make sure they met the requirements to join the study. This was called the screening period. During the treatment period, patients received the following treatments:
- Group 1: 197 patients received enzalutamide at a dose of 160 milligrams (mg), taken by mouth each day
- Group 2: 198 patients received bicalutamide at a dose of 50 mg, taken by mouth each day

Patients in both groups also received placebo pills. A placebo does not have any active medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine. The placebo pills were given so that both treatments would look the same, and the study would remain blinded. During the treatment period, patients came to study visits at week 1, week 5, and week 13, then every 12 weeks thereafter. At the study visits, imaging tests were done and patients were checked by study doctors to determine if prostate cancer was getting worse. Patients were also asked about any medical problems they were having. 

After researchers reviewed results from the treatment period, patients had the option to enter the "open-label extension" part of the study. During this part of the study, all patients received enzalutamide and came to study visits at week 1, week 5, week 17, and then every 16 weeks thereafter. "Open-label" means that the patients and researchers knew which medicine the patients were taking. Patients came to a follow-up visit 30 days after their last dose of study treatment.

The amount of time that patients were in the study varied, but the entire study took more than 5 years to complete, including both the main part of the study and the open-label extension part of the study. The sponsor ran this study at 62 locations in the United States. It began 07 August 2012 and ended 17 January 2018. 396 men joined the study, and 395 men received study treatment. All patients were between the ages of 46 and 92. 

Patients were to continue receiving study treatment until it was confirmed that their prostate cancer had gotten worse. Of the 396 patients who started the study, 145 patients (37%) were still receiving study treatment when the main part of the study ended in February 2015. 251 patients (63%) stopped taking study treatment by their choice, because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study, because they had a medical problem, because prostate cancer got worse, or because they passed away. A total of 93 patients from the enzalutamide group and 37 patients from the bicalutamide group entered the open-label extension part of the study and received enzalutamide. 

When the study ended in January 2018, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.