What is atopic dermatitis?
Atopic dermatitis (or "AD"), which is also sometimes called atopic eczema, is a common skin disorder that causes patches of flaky, red, and very itchy skin. AD occurs in 5% to 10% of adults and 15% to 20% of children worldwide. Some of the current medicines available for AD can only be used for short time periods or can cause other health problems. Researchers are looking for new treatments for AD that can be taken safely for long periods of time.
While researchers think that many things cause AD, it is made worse by the body's immune system (the body's defense against infection) causing redness and swelling (inflammation). Cells in the immune system cause inflammation by making special proteins called "cytokines". Researchers think that medicines that lower the amount of cytokines that the body makes could help treat patients with AD.
What is abrocitinib?
The drug tested in this study was abrocitinib. Abrocitinib has been approved for sale and can be used by adults in some countries around the world. Abrocitinib blocks the activity of a protein called "Janus kinase 1", which acts like a switch for the cells of the immune system. By turning off this switch, the cells of the immune system are expected to produce fewer cytokines that are believed to make AD worse.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study was to compare the levels of abrocitinib seen in the blood after participants had taken abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid, and abrocitinib tablets taken 2 hours after the medicine famotidine. Famotidine is an antacid. It is used to treat and prevent heartburn, indigestion, and other symptoms caused by too much stomach acid such as stomach ulcers and reflux disease. The researchers did this study as they wanted to develop a new liquid preparation or formulation of abrocitinib as an alternative to taking tablets. Researchers wanted to know:
- Part A: How did the amount of abrocitinib in the blood change when this treatment was given as a tablet or as a liquid or when abrocitinib tablets were taken after the antacid famotidine?
- Part B: What did participants think of the taste of the abrocitinib liquid?
- What medical problems did participants have during the study?
How was the study done?
Researchers tested the study treatments of abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid (Liquid 1), and abrocitinib tablets when taken 2 hours after famotidine on groups of healthy participants to learn how abrocitinib acted in the body in Part A. The researchers also wanted to know what the participants thought about the taste of different abrocitinib liquids in Part B. Participants had to stay at the study center for the entire study (Part A and Part B). Participants were assigned to each group by chance alone and the treatments in Part A and in Part B were given in a random order as shown in the following figure. In Part A, participants were to take abrocitinib tablets, abrocitinib liquid (Liquid 1), and abrocitinib tablets 2 hours after having taken famotidine tablets. The dose of abrocitinib was 200 milligrams or mg and this was taken after an overnight fast (nothing to eat or drink except water). The participants took the study treatments in a random order. The participants and the researchers knew who was taking what treatment and this is known as an “open-label study”. There was to be at least 3 days between each dose in Part A, and also 3 days between Period 3 of Part A and Period 4 of Part B. 
