```Osteoarthritis is a common joint condition that affects millions of people around the 
world. Osteoarthritis happens when the "cartilage" in the joint wears down through 
overuse, injury or patient age. Cartilage is the rubbery material that acts as padding, or 
a cushion, between the bones in the joint and stops the bones from rubbing together. 
When the cartilage wears down, the joint can become stiff and painful. Osteoarthritis 
often affects the knees and hips but can be seen in other joints. 
Researchers did this study to compare the long-term pain relief and "joint safety" of 
non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (also known as NSAIDs) with tanezumab in 
patients with osteoarthritis of the hips or knees. Joint safety is a measure of how well 
the bone and joint are doing and whether there are any safety problems. Doctors 
often prescribe NSAIDs like naproxen, celecoxib, or diclofenac to help patients with 
their osteoarthritis. Tanezumab is an "investigational drug", which means it is not 
approved for use in the countries where the patients in this study live. It is a new type 
of drug that is being studied to see if it may be able to help patients with osteoarthritis 
pain.```
This study compared 3 groups of patients to find out if patients receiving a subcutaneous injection or shot of tanezumab that was given under the skin every 8 weeks had the same safety and pain relief compared to patients taking a comparator medicine. In this study, the comparator medicine was tablets or capsules of NSAIDs that were to be taken twice a day. The NSAIDs were naproxen 500 mg, celecoxib 100 mg, or diclofenac ER 75 mg. 

The study included patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee who were 18 years of age or older and who were taking NSAIDs for their osteoarthritis because acetaminophen (also known as paracetamol) had not provided enough pain relief. The patient also had to be unable to take tramadol or opioids for pain relief or had tried these treatments but found they did not work, or was unwilling to take opioids. 

The patients and researchers did not know who took tanezumab and who took the comparator treatment in this study. This is known as a “blinded” study. Studies such as this will often use a “placebo” to help evaluate drug effects. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine being studied. In this study, placebo treatment was given as either an injection, tablets or capsules so that everyone in the study received an injection (tanezumab or placebo) every 8 weeks and tablets or capsules (placebo or NSAIDs) that they had to take twice a day. 

Patients were put into 1 of 3 treatment groups by chance alone (see table below). This is known as a randomized study. Putting people into groups by chance helps to make the groups more equal and easier to compare.

Description of Medicines Given in Each Group:

- Group 1: Tanezumab 2.5 mg injection. Up to 7 injections were given during the study with 1 injection given every 8 weeks. Plus Placebo tablets/capsules twice a day. 1002 patients were treated per group.
- Group 2: Tanezumab 5 mg injection. Up to 7 injections were given during the study with 1 injection given every 8 weeks. Plus Placebo tablets/capsules twice a day. 998 patients were treated per group.
- Group 3: Placebo injection given. Up to 7 injections were given during the study with 1 injection given every 8 weeks. Plus NSAIDs (naproxen 500 mg, celecoxib 100 mg, or diclofenac ER 75 mg) tablets/capsules taken twice a day. 996 patients were treated per group.

While patients were only in the study for about 21 months (80 weeks), the entire study took over 3 and a half years to complete. The sponsor ran this study at 307 locations in 17 countries in Europe, North and South America, and in the Asia-Pacific area. It began on 21 July 2015 and ended on 27 February 2019. 1043 men and 1953 women participated. All patients were between the ages of 28 and 90 years. 

Patients were to be treated for up to 56 weeks and this was then followed by a 24-week safety follow-up period when the patients were observed and no treatment was given (total of 80 weeks). Of the 2996 patients who started the study and received at least 1 injection in the study, 1312 patients finished the treatment period and 1684 patients did not finish the treatment period. A total of 2227 patients completed the safety follow-up part of the study, whether or not they completed the treatment period. A total of 769 patients left before the study was over by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study. 

When the study ended in February 2019, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.