Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a virus that can cause an infection with symptoms 
that are similar to a bad cold, such as cough, fever, sore throat, and runny nose. This infection can be very serious in infants and young children. 
This study is about a vaccine called the "respiratory syncytial virus stabilized 
prefusion F subunit vaccine", or RSVpreF. A vaccine is used to help prevent 
infection by helping the body to fight off germs. RSVpreF may be able to help 
prevent infections caused by RSV. 
RSVpreF is an investigational vaccine, which means that it has not been approved for 
general use and it is not yet known if it will protect against disease caused by RSV. 
This study is the first time this vaccine has been tested in people. To learn about the 
safety of this RSVpreF vaccine, the researchers asked these questions: 
- What percentage of participants had "local reactions" (redness, swelling, or pain at 
the injection site) within 14 days after vaccination 1? 
- What percentage of participants had "systemic events" (nausea, headache, muscle 
pain, diarrhea, tiredness, joint pain, vomiting, or fever) within 14 days after 
vaccination 1? 
- What percentage of participants had medical problems within 1 month after vaccination 1? 
- What percentage of participants had serious medical problems or medical 
problems that required treatment from a doctor within 12 months after 
vaccination 1? 
- For some participants only, the researchers were also interested in the percentage 
of participants that had medical problems within 1 month after Vaccination 2.
This study compared two different groups of participants to find out if participants reacted differently to the RSVpreF vaccine by itself, the RSVpreF vaccine that included aluminum hydroxide, the RSVpreF vaccine plus a flu (influenza) vaccine, or placebo. The aluminum hydroxide is an ingredient that is commonly included in vaccines to make the immune system react more strongly to the vaccine. A placebo does not have any active ingredients in it but is given in the same way as the study vaccine. Some participants were given a placebo instead of the vaccine to see what would happen if the new vaccine was not given. The two different groups of participants were called the Sentinel Cohort and the Expanded Cohort. A cohort is just another word for a group of people in a clinical study.
