Breast cancer is one of the most common types of cancer in women and there were over 2 million new cases worldwide in 2018. Lots of different types of breast cancer exist, so a range of treatment options are needed. One treatment option for a specific type of advanced or "metastatic" breast cancer is IBRANCE® (palbociclib). Metastatic means that the cancer has spread to other areas of the body. IBRANCE (palbociclib) treatment was first approved for use in 2015. The researchers did this study so that they could offer patients with specific types of advanced breast cancer treatment with palbociclib if this treatment was not commercially approved or if patients were not eligible for clinical trials. This study ended when palbociclib became commercially available in participating countries and doctors were able to prescribe this treatment for their patients.
This study provided palbociclib alongside letrozole therapy to all patients who entered the study as follows:
- Palbociclib 125 mg once a day for 21 days and then nothing for 7 days every 28-day cycle, and
- Letrozole 2.5 mg once a day throughout the study. 
The study provided access to palbociclib for patients who were post-menopausal women with “hormone receptor-positive (HR-positive)” and “human epidermal growth factor-negative (HER2-negative)” advanced breast cancer and who lived in Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico. HR-positive and HER2-negative breast cancer means that the cancer can grow and spread if certain “hormones” are present. Hormones are chemicals produced in the body that carry messages from one area to another. If the chemical messenger comes into contact with the cancer cell, then sometimes, if the cancer is positive for that chemical messenger, the cancer will grow and spread. For patients in this study, their cancer would grow and spread if female hormones (estrogen and progesterone) were present in their blood. Palbociclib is one option available to patients with HR-positive breast cancer. 
Most patients (90%) in this study had been treated with a systemic anti-cancer therapies before they joined the study and received palbociclib. This included 35% who had been given 1 previous anti-cancer therapy, 20% who had been given 2 previous anti-cancer therapies, and 35% who had been given 3 or more previous anti-cancer therapies. 
While patients were in the study for an average of around 11 months, the entire study took over 4 years to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at sites in Latin American countries (Argentina, Brazil, Colombia, and Mexico). It began 15 April 2016 and ended on 28 May 2019 and 131 women participated. All patients were between the ages of 28 and 83 years. 
Of the 131 patients who started the study, 130 patients received treatment with palbociclib and letrozole and 1 patient left the study before being treated. The study was closed by the Sponsor when palbociclib was approved by the regulatory authorities and doctors were able to prescribe this treatment for their patients. Most patients left the study for this reason or because their cancer had progressed. 
