How was the study done? Researchers tested GO on a group of study participants with CD33-positive AML to find out if study participants taking GO had a change in their heart function. This was an “open-label” study, which means that the researchers and the participants knew what study medication they were receiving. Apart from GO, participants also received their normal medications to relieve their cancer symptoms. Participants were also given medicines to help reduce symptoms such as fever and chills, known as “infusion reactions”, before receiving GO. Before being included in the study, participants were “screened” to see if they qualify to be in the study. During screening, a bone marrow or blood samples were collected to see if participants had CD33 on their cancer cells. Participants were given 3mg/m2 of GO via intravenous (IV) infusion (using a “drip”) on Days 1, 4 and 7 per cycle for 1 or 2 cycles. Infusion of the study medication took about 2 hours on each day. Some participants received GO for 1 cycle, and others for 2 cycles, depending on what the research doctors felt was best, and how side effects the participants were having due to receiving GO.
Participants returned to the study unit for tests and biological sample collection on Days 10, 15 and 21 of each cycle, and had a final end-of-treatment (EoT) visit, 36 days after the last dose of GO, or start of new/other anticancer treatment. After the EoT visit, participants were monitored every 12 weeks for 12 months, either via phone call or by being asked to return to the study unit for assessments, during a follow-up Period. Participants had regular ECGs to monitor changes in their heart. Participants also had other tests, and blood samples collected to monitor their safety, check the level of GO in their blood and how GO was processed by their body. Some participants also had urine samples collected. Participants were also asked about how well they were feeling, and about any other medications they were taking. The schematic of the basic study plan is shown below. 
Where did this study take place? The Sponsor ran this study at 17 locations in 6 countries in Europe and North America. When did this study take place? It began on 03 July 2019 and ended on 27 April 2021.
Who participated in this study? A total of 66 potential participants were screened to see if they qualify to be in the study. In total, 52 participants (51 adults and 1 teenager) who had CD33-positive AML that was either relapsed or refractory, qualified to be in the study. Only results for the 51 adult participants are shown in this report. Participants included in the study also met specific criteria with regards to the status of their leukemia, their heart rate measurements (specifically, QT interval), and their current and previous treatments for their cancer.
