Juvenile idiopathic arthritis (JIA) is the most common type of arthritis in children. The term "idiopathic" means "of unknown origin", and the term "juvenile" means that disease symptoms start before a person is 16 years old. This disease causes swelling, pain, and stiffness in the joints. JIA is an "autoimmune disease", which means that patients with JIA have an overactive immune system that mistakenly attacks healthy parts of the body, such as the joints. JIA can cause permanent damage to the joints if it goes unchecked, so researchers are looking for new treatment options for polyarticular course JIA. The study drug, tofacitinib, is an oral (taken by mouth) medication that has been approved to treat adults with other types of arthritis. The body normally makes special proteins called "cytokines" that trigger activity in the immune system. In patients with JIA, the body makes too many cytokines, which causes the immune system to become overactive. Researchers think that the study drug works by lowering the amount of cytokines in the body, which helps to calm the activity of the immune system and decrease JIA symptoms. The main purpose of this study was to find out if the study drug works to treat polyarticular course JIA. Some patients in this study also received placebo to find out if the study drug works in comparison with receiving no treatment at all. A placebo looks just like the medication but doesn't have any medication in it. Researchers wanted to know: 
- Did the study drug work to prevent JIA flares, improve JIA symptoms, and ease or reduce overall disability compared to placebo? 
To answer this question, researchers looked at how many patients had disease flares by the end of the study after being treated with the study drug, compared to patients who received placebo. A flare is a sudden, temporary episode of pain and inflammation which is usually associated with tiredness, stiffness or joint swelling. Researchers also looked at how many patients had 30%, 50%, and 70% improvement in their JIA symptoms and if there was any change in their overall disability by asking the patients or their parents certain questions. 090177e1931b7a82\Approved\Approved On: 26-Mar-2020 02:20 (GMT) 3
This study consisted of 2 parts. In the first part of the study, all patients received treatment with the study drug 2 times per day, for 18 weeks. This was called the “run-in phase”. Only the patients who had at least 30% improvement in their symptoms after the run-in phase took part in the second part of the study, called the “double-blind phase”.  
The double-blind phase of the study compared 2 groups of patients to find out if the study drug works to treat JIA compared to placebo:
- Study drug (tofacitinib): 5 mg tablets or oral solution (1 mg/mL) 2 times per day
- Placebo: tablets or oral solution 2 times per day
The study included patients with JIA who were 2 years and older, but less than 18 years old.  The patient’s JIA symptoms had to start before they were 16 years old.  Patients were assigned to one of the 2 groups by chance alone. This is known as a “randomized” study.  “Randomization” is done to make comparing the groups more fair.
The patients and researchers did not know who took the study drug and who took the placebo during the study. This is known as a “blinded” study. This was done to make sure the results of the study could not be unfairly influenced by anyone. In case of urgent need, the study team could learn quickly which study drug the patients were receiving.
While each patient was only in the study for up to approximately 44 weeks, the entire study took almost 3 years to complete. The Sponsor ran this study at 64 locations in 14 countries in different parts of the world. It began 10 June 2016 and ended 16 May 2019. In the run-in phase, 56 boys and 169 girls participated. In the double-blind phase, 43 boys and 130 girls participated. All patients were older than 2 and less than 18 years old. 
Patients were to be treated until the end of the double-blind phase, or until their symptoms worsened. Of the 225 patients who started the study, 185 finished the run-in phase. Forty (40) patients left by their own choice or because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study. Of the 185 patients who finished the run-in phase, 12 did not continue into the double-blind phase.
Of the 173 patients who started the double-blind phase of the study, 99 finished the double-blind phase. Seventy-four (74) patients left by their own choice or because a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study.
When the study ended in May 2019, the Sponsor reviewed the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.