What is atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis?
Atopic dermatitis is a common skin condition that can cause many symptoms, such as itching, redness, and a rash that is scaling or oozing. The symptoms can look different on different people. Atopic dermatitis is also known as eczema. People with atopic dermatitis often have this condition for many years, and may have "flare-ups", when their symptoms worsen for a time.
Plaque psoriasis is a common type of psoriasis seen by doctors. People with this disease, also have flare-ups where their symptoms worsen. The skin, during a flare-up, is usually red and scaly with raised plaques or patches on the skin.
What is PF-07038124?
The study drug (PF-07038124) is an investigational drug because it is not approved for use in people with atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. It is applied to the skin as an ointment once a day. The researchers wanted to know if treatment with PF-07038124 ointment was able to improve symptoms of atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis by decreasing inflammation in the skin. Inflammation is the body's immune system response, which can lead to the symptoms seen in atopic dermatitis and plaque psoriasis.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study is to compare the effects of PF-07038124 ointment with a plain ointment to see if there are any differences between these ointments when used to treat atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. The plain ointment looks and feels like the PF-07038124 ointment but does not contain any medicine. The researchers compared PF-07038124 ointment with plain ointment by measuring the amount and severity of atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. They did this by calculating the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI) score or the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) score. These measures are used to estimate how much of a person's body is affected by atopic dermatitis (EASI score) or plaque psoriasis (PASI score) and also the severity of the atopic dermatitis or plaque psoriasis. The researchers also wanted to find out about the safety of PF-07038124.
