This study evaluated three groups of participants to find out which study drug may be better for treating PGTC seizures: 
- Pregabalin 5 mg/kg/day, or 5 milligrams for each kilogram of body weight per day, to a maximum of 300 mg per day
- Pregabalin 10 mg/kg/day, or 10 milligrams for each kilogram of body weight per day, to a maximum of 600 mg per day
- Placebo
The study included participants between the ages of 5 and 65 years who were diagnosed with epilepsy with PGTC seizures. All of these participants were already taking 1 to 3 other treatments for epilepsy (antiepileptic drugs to help prevent seizures) in addition to Pregabalin or placebo. Participants continued to take their other antiepileptic drugs during the study. 
In this summary, results will be described by whether the participant was taking Pregabalin or placebo, although participants were also taking other antiepileptic drugs. Participants were assigned to each group by chance alone (like the flip of a coin). This is known as a “randomized” study. This is done to make the groups more similar, which makes comparing the groups more fair.
The participants and researchers did not know who took Pregabalin and who took placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. This was done to make sure the results of the study could not be unfairly influenced by anyone. In case of urgent need, the study team could learn quickly which study drug the participants were receiving.
The sponsor ran this study at 70 locations in 21 countries that included: Austria, Belarus, Bosnia and Herzegovina, Bulgaria, China, France, Greece, Hungary, India, South Korea, Malaysia, Montenegro, Poland, Romania, Russian Federation, Serbia, Slovakia, Turkey, Ukraine, United Kingdom, and United States. It began 03 April 2013 and ended 20 February 2019. A total of 98 (45%) males and 121 (55%) females participated.
Participants were in the study for a total of 21 weeks. In the first 8 weeks of the study (baseline), participants had tests and filled out forms to see if they qualified for the study. Participants were then to be treated for 13 weeks and then had the option to continue in the open-label study (the participants and researchers know who is taking which study drug), which is a separate study and not discussed in this report.
A total of 85% (187 of 219) of the participants who started the study finished the study. A total of 15% (32 of 219) of the participants did not finish the study because they left before the study was over by their choice, a doctor decided it was best that they stop the study, and 1 participant who received placebo died due to epilepsy.
When the study ended in February 2019, the Sponsor reviewed the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.