What is vitiligo?
Vitiligo is a chronic skin disorder that causes a patchy loss of skin color. This loss of 
skin color could be focused in one area of the body for some people (called 
“segmental vitiligo”) or could be located over various areas of the body for other 
people (called “non-segmental vitiligo”). Melanin is the name for a pigment that is 
found in the skin and is responsible for skin color. Melanin is made by certain types 
of cells in the body called melanocytes. In people with vitiligo, the skin loses these 
melanocytes, resulting in the patchy loss of skin color.
What are ritlecitinib and brepocitinib?
Ritlecitinib and brepocitinib are investigational treatments that are being studied for 
active, non-segmental vitiligo. An investigational treatment is one that is still being 
studied and is not approved for use outside of research studies. Ritlecitinib and 
brepocitinib may block the activity of certain cells and molecules that are responsible 
for the loss of melanocytes in the skin.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study was to learn about the safety and effects of ritlecitinib and 
brepocitinib in people with active, non-segmental vitiligo. 
Researchers wanted to know:
During Part 1, did participants have an improvement in facial 
vitiligo after taking study treatment for 24 weeks?
090177e199eda732\Approved\Approved On: 12-Apr-2022 05:40 (GMT)
How was the study done?
Researchers studied different doses of ritlecitinib and placebo in a group of study participants. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but it looks just like the study treatment. Researchers also studied a dose regimen of brepocitinib in a group of study participants during an extension period. The study participants and researchers did not know who took which study treatment/dose, and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. The study treatments were given as tablets. Study participants were assigned to each group by chance alone.
Participants were screened by a doctor to make sure they met the requirements to join the study. This study was done in 2 parts. Part 1 lasted 24 weeks, and looked at the safety and effects of different doses of ritlecitinib. Participants were assigned to 1 of 6 treatment groups:
- Part 1 Group 1 (65 participants): Ritlecitinib 200 mg for 4 weeks, followed by ritlecitinib 50 mg for 20 weeks
- Part 1 Group 2 (67 participants): Ritlecitinib 100 mg for 4 weeks, followed by ritlecitinib 50 mg for 20 weeks
- Part 1 Group 3 (67 participants): Ritlecitinib 50 mg for 24 weeks
- Part 1 Group 4 (50 participants): Ritlecitinib 30 mg for 24 weeks
- Part 1 Group 5 (49 participants): Ritlecitinib 10 mg for 24 weeks
- Part 1 Group 6 (66 participants): Placebo
Participants who completed Part 1 were eligible to join Part 2. This part of the study lasted 24 weeks, and looked at the safety of ritlecitinib and brepocitinib. During Part 2, some participants also received treatment with ultraviolet light. Participants were assigned to 1 of 6 treatment groups based on how they had responded to treatment during Part 1. Groups 1, 2, and 6 were “unblinded”, which means that the study participants and researchers knew who took which study treatment/dose, and who took the placebo. Groups 3, 4, and 5 were blinded:
