Ulcerative colitis ("UC") is a long-term inflammatory bowel disease that causes inflammation (swelling) and ulcers (sores) in the digestive tract. UC affects the mucosa (inner lining) of the large intestine (colon) and rectum. Patients with UC experience occasional periods of increased inflammation, known as flares. Flares are characterized by diarrhea (loose stools) and the presence of blood in the stools, as well as a sense of urgency. Flares are followed by periods of remission (time with no symptoms) that vary in length from weeks to years.
There is no known cure for UC. Treatment can greatly reduce signs and symptoms of UC and can even lead to long-term remission. However, there are few treatment options for patients with moderately to severely active UC. Medication is the most common treatment for UC. Tofacitinib is a medicine that works to reduce the activity of the immune system. It is an oral (taken by mouth) medication that has been approved and is available by prescription to treat adults with active, moderate to severe UC that did not respond well to other medications.
Researchers have continued to study tofacitinib to find out more about its safety and how well it works. In one study, researchers saw that participants with UC who took either 5mg or 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day were more likely to stay in remission compared to participants who took placebo. However, a formal study to compare a reduced dose of tofacitinib (5mg twice a day) to the standard dose (10mg twice a day) of tofacitinib had not been done.
In this study, researchers wanted to find out if participants with UC who were in stable remission (ongoing time with no symptoms) would stay in remission if the dose of the treatment was reduced from 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day to 5mg of tofacitinib twice a day. Researchers wanted to answer the question:
- What difference did switching from 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day to 5mg of tofacitinib twice a day have on the percent of participants in remission after 6 months compared to staying on 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day?
Researchers also wanted to learn more about the safety of tofacitinib in participants who switched from 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day to 5mg of tofacitinib twice a day compared to participants who continued to take 10mg of tofacitinib twice a day. They monitored participants for any medical problems that happened while they were taking tofacitinib.
