People with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy have higher than normal levels of a particular protein in their heart. This increases the risk of having heart problems, like heart failure.
Tafamidis is a study drug that is being tested for the treatment of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. Tafamidis is currently approved to treat transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy in Japan and the United States. Tafamidis is not approved to treat transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy in other countries because it is still being tested.
This study had 2 purposes:
To understand the safety of tafamidis: to see what medical problems patients had during the study
To look at controlling transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy: to see if patients taking tafamidis were less likely to have a stay in the hospital and less likely to die earlier because of transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy.
This study compared patients who received tafamidis with patients who received placebo, to understand if tafamidis helped patients with transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine being studied.
This was a randomized trial, meaning patients were put randomly (by chance) into one of three groups: 
- Group 1: received a study drug called tafamidis at a dose of 20 milligrams (mg)
- Group 2: received a study drug called tafamidis at a dose of 80 mg
- Group 3: received a placebo that didn’t contain any drug
Putting patients into groups randomly makes comparing the groups more fair. The study included patients who had a history of heart failure due to transthyretin amyloid cardiomyopathy. The patients and researchers did not know who took tafamidis and who took the placebo. This is known as a “blinded” study. This means that neither the patients nor doctors knew which drug the patients actually got.
The study began on 09 December 2013 and ended on 07 February 2018. While patients were in the study for 2.5 years (30 months), the entire study took about 4.5 years to complete. At the end of this study, all patients were offered the possibility to continue tafamidis treatment in a separate study to help researchers collect more data on the safety of tafamidis.
The Sponsor ran this study at 48 locations in 13 countries around the world. 398 men and 43 women participated. All patients were between the ages of 46 and 89.
Patients were to be treated for 30 months (2.5 years). Of the 441 patients who started the study, 258 finished the study. 183 patients did not finish the study by their choice or a doctor decided it was best for a patient to stop the study, or because they died from causes not related to taking the study drug.
