Chronic low back pain is pain in the lower back that lasts for 3 months or more. 
Doctors can prescribe medicines to manage this pain, but these medicines may not 
work well for all patients, so researchers are looking for additional treatment options. 
Tanezumab was evaluated in patients with chronic low back pain. Tanezumab is not 
approved for use in patients.
The main purpose of this study was to learn more about how tanezumab works to 
treat chronic low back pain symptoms. The researchers wanted to answer this 
question:
- Did patients who received tanezumab have an improvement in chronic low 
back pain symptoms, compared to patients who received placebo?
A placebo does not have any medicine in it, but looks just like the medicine.
This study compared four groups of patients to find out if patients taking tanezumab would have an improvement in chronic low back pain symptoms. To answer the research question, the researchers asked patients to rate their lower back pain each day, on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain). The study included adult patients with chronic lower back pain that has been going on at least 3 months, who did not get adequate pain relief from certain other pain medicines. These patients had a back pain rating of 5 or more, on a scale from 0 to 10, at the beginning of the study. 
First, patients were screened by the study doctor to make sure they were appropriate to join the study. This was known as the “screening period”, which lasted up to 37 days. During this time, X-rays of the knees, hip joints, and shoulder joints were taken, and lower back pain was assessed.
- The next part of the study was the “treatment period”, which lasted up to 56 weeks. The treatments used in this study included: Tanezumab 5 mg, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; Tanezumab 10 mg, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; A placebo that looks like tanezumab, given as an injection under the skin every 8 weeks; A medicine called tramadol that is used to treat chronic lower back pain, given as a pill by mouth every day; A placebo pill that looks like the tramadol pill, taken by mouth every day.
Patients were assigned to one of four treatment groups. Patients were assigned to each group by chance alone. Putting people into groups by chance helps make the groups more similar so they can be compared. 
Each group received the following treatments: 
- Group 1: Placebo injection + placebo pill for the first 16 weeks. After 16 weeks, patients were switched to tanezumab 5 mg or 10 mg injections + placebo pill
- Group 2: Tanezumab 5 mg injection + placebo pill
- Group 3: Tanezumab 10 mg injection + placebo pill
- Group 4: Tramadol pill + placebo injection
The patients and researchers did not know who took the tanezumab injection or the placebo injection and who took the tramadol pill or the placebo pill, since these treatments looked the same. This is known as a “blinded” study.
- At study visits in the clinic, starting at the screening visit, the patients completed questionnaires about their low back pain. They also let the staff know about illnesses and discomforts, and had assessments (like physical exam, blood pressure, and more) done by the study doctors and other qualified personnel.
During the study visits for week 16 and week 32, the study doctor assessed whether the patients should continue in the study, based on their low back pain ratings. To continue in the study, patients should have at least 30% improvement in pain ratings after 16 weeks of treatment. Patients who did not have at least 30% improvement stopped study treatment and entered the follow-up period.
The follow-up period lasted 24 weeks. During this time, the study doctors monitored the patients for any medical problems. Each patient participated in the study for up to 80 weeks, and the entire study took about 3½ years to complete. The sponsor ran this study at 191 doctor’s offices and clinics in Europe, Asia, and North America. It began 18th August 2015 and ended 20th December 2018. 
