```Prostate cancer is common in men and happens when the cells of the "prostate" start to grow out of control. The prostate is a gland that is part of the male reproductive system. Patients with prostate cancer are often treated with hormone therapy and/or "orchiectomy". Orchiectomy is the surgical removal of 1 or both testicles (sometimes called castration). Even with hormone therapy and/or surgery, the cancer can come back. If this happens, it is called castration-resistant prostate cancer and hormone therapy, immunotherapy, radiotherapy, or chemotherapy may be given. Prostate cancer may also "metastasize" or spread to other areas of the body. Often new cancers will develop in the bone and these cancers are described as metastatic bone tumors. 
One type of hormone therapy that can be given to patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer is Xtandi® (enzalutamide). This medicine can be used to treat metastatic as well as non-metastatic disease in many countries around the world, including the United States, Canada, and Europe. 
This study used 18F-sodium fluoride positron-emission tomography/computed tomography (18F-NaF PET-CT) to look at the effect of enzalutamide treatment on metastatic bone tumors in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer. 18F-NaF PET-CT is an imaging test that can be used to see what is happening to a tumor and if the tumor is responding to treatment. Patients in this study were treated with enzalutamide and the researchers looked to see if the tumor was shrinking, staying the same, or getting bigger after treatment. If the tumor gets bigger, different treatment options may be needed.```
This study compared a single group of patients to find out if 18F-NaF PET-CT imaging could be used to look at treatment response in metastatic bone tumors in patients taking enzalutamide. The study included patients who had castration-resistant prostate cancer with metastatic bone tumors and who were "chemotherapy naive in this setting". This means that the patient must not have been previously treated with chemotherapy for their castration-resistant prostate cancer. 
