What is Advanced Renal Cell Cancer?
Cancer occurs when cells in the body divide without control and can spread to other parts of the body. Renal cell cancer is the most common form of kidney cancer. It starts in the lining of the small tubes inside the kidney that help clean and filter blood. Advanced renal cell cancer is when the disease has progressed to Stage IV and has spread to other parts of the body.
What are Axitinib and MK-3475?
Axitinib, pronounced AK-sih-TIH-nib, also called Inlyta®, is a tablet, taken by mouth twice a day. Researchers think Axitinib may help patients with advanced renal cell cancer by stopping the body from making a protein called "vascular endothelial growth factor", or VEGF. Cancer cells make extra amounts of some proteins including VEGF when growing. The extra VEGF tells the surrounding cells to make new blood vessels that tumors need to grow. Blood vessels are tiny tubes that allow blood to move around and provide nutrients and oxygen to all the parts of the body. MK-3475, also called Pembrolizumab or Keytruda®, is an intravenous (IV) treatment that researchers believe may help patients with cancer. MK-3475 works by sticking to a protein called "anti-programmed cell death protein", which prevents it from protecting cancer cells from the body's immune system. Researchers think taking both Axitinib and MK-3475 may help patients with advanced renal cell cancer, as they work in different ways. However, first they needed to know more about the safety of taking both these treatments at the same time.
What was the purpose of this study?
The purpose of this study was to learn how safe the combination of Axitinib and MK-3475 were for patients with advanced renal cell cancer and figure out the best dose to use in future studies.
090177e196d66eb7\Approved\Approved On: 21-Apr-2021 10:21 (GMT)
How was the study done?
This study had two parts: the dose finding part and the dose expansion part.
Researchers wanted to know:
- How safe was the combination of Axitinib and MK-3475 for participants with advanced renal cell cancer?
- What medical problems did participants have during the study?

Researchers tested 2 different doses of Axitinib in combination with 2 milligrams per kilogram each participant weighed (also called “mg/kg”) of MK-3475 on a group of participants with advanced renal cell cancer to learn how safe the combination of Axitinib and MK-3475.

In the dose finding part of the study, participants were to take Axitinib at a dose of 5mg by mouth, twice a day. Participants were also to take 2 mg/kg MK-3475 inside the vein (IV). After 3 weeks, the participants either continued taking the 5 mg dose of Axitinib or were switched to the 3 mg dose of Axitinib. 

The participants and researchers knew who took the 5 mg dose of Axitinib and who took 3 mg dose of Axitinib. All participants knew they were taking MK-3475. This is known as an “open-label” study. Participants were assigned to each group by their doctor based on each participant’s condition.

During the dose expansion part of the study, the participants from the dose finding part of the study continued to take these medications at the dose chosen by their doctors. New patients also joined the study and were given 1 of the 2 doses of Axitinib as chosen by their doctors. 

Researchers took samples of blood and urine from participants once every 3 weeks during both the dose finding and dose expansion parts of the study and measured the amounts of Axitinib and MK-3475. Researchers also checked the participants’ health during the study and asked them how they were feeling. 

Researchers then compared the number of participants that had certain medical problems in the Axitinib 5 mg to the participants taking Axitinib 3 mg.  

Where did this study take place? 
The Sponsor ran this study at 10 locations in 1 country in North America.

When did this study take place?
It began 16 September 2014 and ended 03 July 2019.

Who participated in this study?
The study included participants who were at least 18 years old, had advanced renal cell cancer, and at least 1 tumour their doctor could measure. 
A total of 41 men participated
A total of 11 women participated
All participants were between the ages of 28 and 75 years
Participants were to be treated until their cancer got worse, they chose to leave the study, or a doctor decided it was best for them to stop being in the study. Of the 52 participants who started the study, no patients were still continuing in the study at the time of this report. 

How long did the study last?
The amount of time that study participants were in the study varied depending on their response to the study treatment, but the entire study took 58 months to complete.

When the study ended in July 2019, the Sponsor began reviewing the information collected. The Sponsor then created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.