General information about the research study
When was the study done? bacteria that cannot cause infection. These parts
help the body make defenses, known as
The study started in April 2019 and ended in antibodies, against those bacteria.
August 2021.
The main goal of the study was to compare
antibodies between adults who either got NTHi
Why was this study done?
Mcat vaccine after receiving shingles vaccine or
NTHi Mcat vaccine alone.
Sometimes, additional components are added to
vaccines to make them work better. These To be sure that vaccination with NTHi Mcat
components are called ‘adjuvants’. This study vaccine is beneficial, it is important to
was done to find out the best time window to understand the side effects this vaccine may
give 2 vaccines containing the same adjuvant. have.
Non Typeable Haemophilus influenzae and Study doctors collected information about
Moraxella catarrhalis (NTHi and Mcat) are potential side effects to the vaccines given in this
bacteria that can cause worsening of a chronic study. The results can be found in the section
lung disease known as chronic obstructive “What were the side effects?”.
pulmonary disease (COPD). In COPD, airflow to
This report focuses on the results of the main
lungs is obstructed, making it difficult to breathe.
goals of the study. All results may be found in the
Vaccines may help protect against infection by
clinical results summary.
NTHi and Mcat. They contain parts of the
Who took part in this study?
541 adults from Estonia, Finland, France,
Italy and Spain
50 to 80 years old when they got their first
vaccination
259 women (48%)
282 men (52%)
Adults could take part in the study if Adults could not take part in the study if
they: they:
were former or current smokers with a history
previously received any shingles vaccine(s) or
of cigarette smoking as defined for this study
vaccine(s) containing NTHi and/or Mcat
did not have autoimmune diseases, COPD,
previously received any vaccine containing
alcoholism and/or drug abuse
the adjuvant used in this study
were pregnant or planning to become
pregnant when they started the study