What were the main results of the study?
This report provides the results of the main goals of the study. All results may be found in the clinical
results summary.
Immune responses to NTHi Mcat vaccine those who got NTHi Mcat vaccine alone. Adults
who got the NTHi Mcat vaccine 3 months and 6
and shingles vaccine
months after they got the shingles vaccine had
similar levels of antibodies as compared to adults
There were no important differences between
who got NTHi Mcat vaccine alone.
the antibody levels in adults who got the NTHi
Mcat vaccine 1 month after shingles vaccine and
What were the side effects?
Unwanted medical events (adverse events) can Two participants in the NTHi Mcat group
happen to people when they receive a vaccine. reported skin itching within 1 month after
Study doctors record these events. A summary of vaccination.
all events reported in this study may be found in
No study participants withdrew from the study
the clinical results summary.
because of a vaccine side effect. Fewer than 1%
If the study doctor thinks that the event was participants reported a serious side effect: 1
caused by the vaccine, they record this as a participant in the 1-month gap group, reported 2
possible side effect (adverse reaction). serious side effects. These were polymyalgia
rheumatica (a condition that results in muscle
In this summary, “side effects*” refer to those
pain and stiffness in different parts of the body),
events that the study doctor thinks may have
and giant cell arteritis (swelling up of blood
been caused by the study vaccine.
vessels in the head). Both side effects were
Pain was the most frequently reported side resolved by the end of the study with some long-
effect at the place of injection (arm) after term effects.
vaccination (Figure 2).
This study did not raise any safety concerns
Tiredness was the most frequently reported side about the NTHi Mcat vaccine.
effect after vaccination (Figure 2).
*The use of the term side effects in this summary may be different to that in the Informed Consent or other
documents related to the vaccine.