Are there plans for further studies?
At the time of preparation of this summary, other The results of any future studies will be available
studies were planned to further evaluate the on the websites of European Medicines Agency
PCV-free Rotavirus vaccine. and/or the United States National Institutes of
Health. Links are provided at the end of the
document.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase III, observer-blind, randomized, multi-country study to assess the reactogenicity and safety of the
Porcine circovirus (PCV) free liquid formulation of GSK’s oral live attenuated human rotavirus (HRV)
vaccine as compared to the lyophilized formulation of the GSK’s HRV vaccine, when administered as a 2-
dose vaccination in infants starting at age 6-12 weeks.
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2018-001986-18
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT03954743
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 11 May 2021. The information in this summary
does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more information in scientific
summaries of the study. Links to those summaries are provided below.