General information about the research study
When was the study done? against RSV during pregnancy. The mother’s
antibodies may be passed to the baby before
The study started in November 2019 and ended birth, offering some protection during the first
in May 2021. months of life.
The main goals of the study were to:
Why was this study done?
• Look at the safety of RSV vaccine when it is
RSV (respiratory syncytial virus) can infect the administered to the pregnant mothers - for
airways and lungs. Infants, young children and both mother and baby.
older people are most likely to have a severe RSV
• Check levels of two different types of RSV
infection. More than half of all infants are
antibodies in pregnant mothers
infected with RSV during the first year of their
lives. Almost all children are infected with RSV by • Check if pregnant mothers who got the RSV
their second birthday. RSV is spread from person vaccine passed RSV antibodies to their
to person by coughing and sneezing. It leads to a newborns and check the levels of these
runny nose, fever, cough, and loss of appetite. antibodies in the babies.
Vaccines can help protect against RSV. They
Study doctors collected information about
contain parts of RSV that cannot cause infection.
potential side effects to the vaccines given in this
These parts help the body make defenses, known
study. The results can be found in the section
as antibodies, against RSV.
“What were the side effects?”.
Newborns and young babies are at increased risk
This report focuses on the results of the main
of developing severe RSV disease. One possibility
goals of the study. All results may be found in the
to protect babies is to vaccinate their mothers
clinical results summary.
Who took part in this study?
213 pregnant mothers and 206
babies born to them from 9 countries
18 to 40 years old pregnant mothers
111 male babies (54%)
95 female babies (46%)
Pregnant mothers could take part Pregnant mothers could not take part in the
in the study if they: study if they:
• were in good health • had significant complications in the current
pregnancy