Page 2 of 10
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in August 2020 and is still ongoing. In April 2021, GSK decided that no
further participants will enter this study and the existing participants will stop receiving one
of the study medicines, feladilimab. This is referred to as data cut-off in the summary. This is
because in a different study, the researchers found that fewer participants than expected
responded to feladilimab. However, participants could continue on in this study and receive
the combination of pembrolizumab and chemotherapy. This summary provides details only
up to the data cut-off.
Which medicines were studied?
In this study, participants received feladilimab or placebo in combination with
pembrolizumab and chemotherapy.
1. Feladilimab: It is a medicine that boosts the immune system’s reaction and helps
immune cells attack cancer cells. This may slow down the growth or return of the
cancer. It is not yet approved to treat any disease.
2. Placebo: has no active study medicine.
Pembrolizumab is a medicine that helps the body to use its own immune system to treat
cancer. It is approved in several countries to treat many types of cancer.
Chemotherapy in this study consisted of cisplatin or carboplatin plus 5-fluorouracil. These
medicines are used to treat cancer.
What was the main reason for this study?
Head and neck cancer is a type of cancer that starts in the head and neck region. When the
cancer spreads to the sites away from the head and neck region, it is considered metastatic.
Cancer that returns or worsens after being successfully treated is considered recurrent.
Cancers that are recurrent or metastatic are called advanced cancers.
Immune cells have a type of protein on
their surface called programmed cell
death protein 1 (PD-1). Cancer cells make
a protein called programmed cell death
ligand protein (PD-L1) that can attach to
the PD-1 protein and turn off the
immune cell. Cancer medicines can
attach to the PD-1 protein and block the