Page 1 of 7
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summary of the study. A link to the summary is
provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to learn about the effect of niraparib combined with bevacizumab
in delaying the growth or return of cancer or death in participants with advanced
ovarian cancer who responded to platinum-based chemotherapy in addition to
bevacizumab.
Full Scientific Title: A phase 2, single-arm, open-label study to evaluate the safety and
efficacy of niraparib combined with bevacizumab as maintenance treatment in patients
with advanced ovarian cancer, fallopian tube cancer, or primary peritoneal cancer
following front-line platinum-based chemotherapy with bevacizumab.
Study Number: 213358 (3000-02-004)
Who sponsored this study?
Tesaro, a GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) company
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When and where was this study done?
The study started in December 2017. When this summary was finalised, enrolment was
closed but the study was ongoing. Data collected up to December 2020 are included in
this summary. This is called the data cut-off. All study sites were in the United States.
What was the main objective of this study?
Ovarian cancer starts in the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or peritoneum. Advanced ovarian
cancer is a cancer that has spread to other organs of the body.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.