Page 1 of 9
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to see how well niraparib works, in delaying the growth or return of
cancer or death, in patients with advanced ovarian cancer who responded to their first
chemotherapy.
Full Scientific Title: A phase 3, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled,
multicentre study of niraparib maintenance treatment in patients with advanced
ovarian cancer following response on front-line platinum-based chemotherapy.
Study Number: PR-30-5017-C (213359)
Who sponsored this study?
Tesaro, a GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) company
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in July 2016. Enrolment was closed, but the study was ongoing when
this summary was finalised. Data collected up to May 2019 are included in this
summary. This is called the data cut-off.
What was the main objective of this study?
Ovarian cancer starts in the ovaries, fallopian tubes, or peritoneum. Advanced ovarian
cancer is a cancer that has spread to other organs of the body.
Niraparib is a medicine that can cause cells to die. This may slow down the growth or
return of the cancer.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.