Asthma patients’ and physicians’ perspectives on the
burden and management of asthma (APPaRENT study)
Study Number: 212911, sponsored by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
Why was this study done? Almost all doctors said they classify patients by
asthma severity (mild, moderate, or severe).
Researchers wanted to ask patients and doctors
Doctors reported that about half of their
in different countries about asthma and asthma
patients had mild asthma.
treatment.
Most doctors thought symptom control was an
What did the researchers do and
important treatment goal. Doctors were more
find?
likely to prioritise reducing the risk of asthma
Between July and August 2020, researchers sent attacks (exacerbations) over symptom control in
invitations via email to patients and doctors in patients with severe asthma compared with
Australia, Canada, China, and the Philippines. If patients with mild asthma.
the recipients were interested in the study and
met a list of requirements, they completed the
What do these findings mean?
questionnaire on their own.
Controlling asthma symptoms is a priority for
Patients had to have asthma and be age 18 or
both patients and doctors. Doctors consider
older. Doctors had to have been in practice for
asthma severity when making treatment
at least three years and treat at least four
decisions for patients. They are more likely to
asthma patients per month.
focus on reducing exacerbations in patients with
severe asthma. Communication between
Most patients said it was important that their
doctors and patients about treatment goals is
asthma medicine controls symptoms like chest
important.
tightness, coughing, and shortness of breath.
We would like to thank the doctors and
Most patients said their asthma was well
patients who contributed to this study. The
controlled or completely controlled. Patients in
results of this study will help answer
China and the Philippines were more likely to
questions about treating patients with
consider their asthma only somewhat controlled
asthma.
compared with patients in Australia and Canada.
The content for this document was finalised
Researchers noticed that many patients
by GSK on 7 July 2021. The information in
reported shortness of breath and night-time
this summary does not include additional
awakenings due to asthma. Most patients used
information available after this date.
a rescue inhaler at least once in the month
before taking the survey.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications by
others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution
of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest
extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived, licensed
or otherwise affected.