This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to compare a combination of fluticasone furoate and vilanterol with
vilanterol alone on bone mineral density in patients with chronic obstructive
pulmonary disease.
Full Scientific Title: Multi-centre, randomised, double-blind, parallel-group study
evaluating the effect of fluticasone furoate/vilanterol inhalation powder once daily
compared with vilanterol inhalation powder once daily on bone mineral density in
subjects with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.
Study Number: 102972
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in January 2014 and ended in March 2018.
What was the main reason for this study?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a long-term disease of the lungs that
makes it hard to breathe and gets worse over time.
Patients who need daily treatment for COPD often take an inhaled long-acting
bronchodilator (a medicine that relaxes and opens the airways in the lungs). If patients
experience sudden worsening of COPD symptoms (exacerbation) despite daily
treatment, doctors may prescribe a combination of an inhaled long‐acting beta agonist
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.