How has this study helped patients and researchers?
The results from this study indicate that: The results from this study will be submitted to
regulatory agencies for evaluation and, if
The new manufacturing process produces
approved, will enable health care professionals
consistent PCV-free rotavirus vaccine doses
to administer the PCV-free rotavirus vaccine to
across production batches.
babies.
The PCV-free rotavirus vaccine and the
currently used rotavirus vaccine both help
protect babies against rotavirus.
Are there plans for further studies?
There are other studies to further evaluate the GSK rotavirus vaccine. The results of future studies will be
available on the websites of the European Medicines Agency and/or the United States National Institutes
of Health (see links at the end of this document).
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase IIIA, randomised, observer-blind, multi-centre study to evaluate the clinical consistency of 3
production lots of the Porcine circovirus (PCV)-free liquid formulation of GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals (GSK)
oral live attenuated human rotavirus (HRV) vaccine and to evaluate the PCV-free liquid formulation of
GSK’s HRV vaccine as compared to the currently licensed lyophilised formulation of the HRV vaccine in
terms of immunogenicity, reactogenicity and safety when administered as a 2-dose vaccination in healthy
infants starting at age 6-12 weeks.
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2016-000598-19
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02914184
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 24 April 2019. The information in this summary
does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be
used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these
data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims
liability for all uses of the data by users of this document, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable
law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived, licensed or
otherwise affected.