This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to assess how well mepolizumab works and how safe it is in
patients with severe hypereosinophilic syndrome.
Full Scientific Title: A randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled study to investigate
the efficacy and safety of mepolizumab in the treatment of adolescent and adult
subjects with severe hypereosinophilic syndrome.
Study Number: 200622
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in March 2017 and ended in August 2019.
What was the main objective of this study?
High levels of a type of white blood cell (eosinophils) for a long period of time can lead
to a condition called hypereosinophilic syndrome (HES). Eosinophils help the body fight
infections, but too many eosinophils may cause inflammation that can damage the
body’s internal organs. Patients with HES can have flares of disease worsening.
Mepolizumab is a medicine that lowers the number of eosinophils in the blood.
Researchers wanted to see how well mepolizumab works in reducing HES flares, when
added to their regular HES treatment, in patients with severe HES. For this study, a HES
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.