How has this study helped patients and researchers?
In this study, getting another shingles vaccine at least 5 or more years before the study started did not
change how older adults responded to the new shingles vaccine. Both groups had similar side effects.
Are there plans for further studies?
Several studies of the new shingles vaccine are ongoing and planned in different groups of people.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase III, open label, multicenter study of GSK Biological’ herpes zoster HZ/su candidate vaccine
(GSK1437173A) administered intramuscularly on a 0 and 2 month schedule evaluating the
immunogenicity, safety and reactogenicity in adults ≥65 years of age with a previous Zostavax vaccination
≥5 years earlier, compared to group-matched adults not previously vaccinated with Zostavax.
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below is the unique study number associated with this study.
Organization Website Study Number
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02581410
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more
information in the scientific summary of the study. Link to this summary is provided at the end of this
document.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 6 December 2019. The information in this
summary does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.
For readers of this document in text form, the websites associated with the hyperlinks above are:
US NIH/clinicaltrials.gov: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02581410