Page 1 of 6
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summary of the study. A link to the summary is
provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to assess how well tenofovir disoproxil fumarate works in Chinese
participants who had chronic hepatitis B leading to liver damage but no serious
symptoms.
Full Scientific Title: A prospective, multi-centre, cohort study to evaluate the efficacy
and safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate therapy in Chinese chronic hepatitis B
subjects with advanced fibrosis and compensated cirrhosis.
Study Number: 201213
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When and where was this study done?
The study started in March 2015 and ended in December 2020. All study sites were in
China.
What was the main reason for this study?
Chronic hepatitis B is a long-term infection of the liver caused by the hepatitis B virus
(HBV). It can lead to serious liver diseases such as formation of scars on the liver
(cirrhosis), liver failure, or liver cancer. Currently, there is no cure for chronic
hepatitis B. The goal of any treatment for chronic hepatitis B is to manage the HBV
infection by fighting the virus and slowing its ability to damage the liver.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.