This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summary of the study. A link to the summary is
provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to assess how well tenofovir disoproxil fumarate works and how
safe it is in Chinese patients with chronic hepatitis B who did not respond well to
treatment with multiple nucleos(t)ide analogues.
Full Scientific Title: A multi-centre, single-arm, open-label study to evaluate the efficacy
and safety of tenofovir disoproxil fumarate treatment in Chinese chronic hepatitis B
subjects following failure of multiple nucleos(t)ide analogues.
Study Number: 201215
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When and where was this study done?
The study started in March 2015 and ended in August 2018. All study sites were in
China.
What was the main reason for this study?
Chronic hepatitis B is a long-term infection of the liver caused by the hepatitis B
virus (HBV). It can lead to serious liver diseases such as liver failure, cirrhosis or liver
cancer. Once infected, there is currently no cure for chronic hepatitis B. The goal of any
treatment for chronic hepatitis B is to manage the HBV infection by fighting the virus
and slowing its ability to damage the liver.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.