Which vaccines were studied?
Vaccines used in this study were made to The names of these 4 flu viruses are:
protect against 4 types of flu viruses that were
A/H1N1 B/Yamagata
likely to cause the flu during the winter of 2014-
A/H3N2 B/Victoria
2015.
How was the study done?
Half the participants got the vaccine made in a this was their first flu vaccination ever. All other
simplified way. The other half got the vaccine participants got 1 shot.
made in the current way. Neither the
Two blood samples were taken to measure the
participants nor the study staff knew which
antibodies against flu virus. The first blood
vaccine was given to which participant (this is
sample was taken before the first shot. The
called a ‘double blind’ study).
second blood sample was taken 3 or 4 weeks
Both vaccines were given by injection (shot). after the last shot (see Overview of time and
Individuals 6 months to 8 years old got 2 shots if events below).
Overview of time and events
First After 3 After 4 After 8
= Blood draw = Shot
day weeks weeks weeks
Age 6 months to 8 years,
never received a previous flu shot
Age 6 months to 8 years,
received a previous flu shot
Age 9 to 17 years
Age 18 to 49 years
What were the main results of the study?
This report focuses on the results of the main goals of the study. All results may be found in the clinical
results summary.
Safety in all age groups A complete overview of results for medical
events reported in this study may be found in
Unwanted medical events can happen to people
the clinical results summary (please note that
while they are in the study. Study doctors collect
unwanted medical events are referred to as
all these events. The cause of these events is not
“adverse events” in that document).
always known.
Antibodies against the 4 flu virus types
In all age groups there was no meaningful
difference between the number of unwanted Measuring the antibodies in the blood samples
medical events experienced by people who from children was one of the main goals of the
received the vaccine made in the simplified and study. These results are presented here.
in the current way. Although not one of the main aims of the study,
antibodies were also measured in adults. The