How has this study helped people and researchers?
The results from this study showed that the in a simplified and in the current way. No
amounts of antibodies made in children who serious side effects were observed in this study.
received the flu vaccine made in a simplified
This summary only shows results from one
way was not meaningfully different to children
study. Other studies may find different results.
who received the vaccine made in the current
These results suggest the new, less complicated,
way.
manufacturing process is suitable to replace the
In all age groups, there was no meaningful current process with the aim of increasing the
difference between the number of medical amount of vaccine available.
events in people that received the vaccine made
Are there plans for further studies?
The results of this and other studies will be in future decisions on the use of the new
assessed and considered by researchers to help vaccine manufacturing process.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase III, double-blind, randomized, multicenter study to assess safety and immunogenicity of
GlaxoSmithKline Biologicals’ Quadrivalent Split Virion Influenza vaccine (GSK2321138A) manufactured
with a new process, in adults aged 18 to 49 years and in children aged 6 months to 17 years.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2014-000955-10
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02207413
of Health (NIH)
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) www.gsk.clinicalstudyregister.com 201251
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study. Keep taking your current
treatment unless instructed by your doctor.
This document was developed and completed by GSK on 4 April 2018. The information in this summary
does not include additional information available after this date.
For readers of this document in text form, the websites associated with the hyperlinks above are:
EudraCT summary:
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2014-000955-10
US NIH/clinicaltrials.gov:
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02207413
GSK Clinical Study Register:
https://www.gsk-clinicalstudyregister.com/search/all/1/?study_ids=201251&search=Search