Are there plans for further studies?
The parents of babies who took part in this study were asked if their child could participate in another
follow-up study. If parents give their permission, the babies will be given another shot of the same
6-in-1 vaccine.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase IV, open-label, non-randomized, multicenter study to assess the immunogenicity and safety of
Infanrix hexa administered as primary vaccination in healthy infants born to mothers given Boostrix during
pregnancy or post-delivery in 116945 [DTPA (BOOSTRIX)-047].
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2014-001117-41
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02422264
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more
information in scientific summaries of the study. Links to those summaries are provided at the end of this
document.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 22-May-2019. The information in this summary
does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.