How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers, doctors and parents understand that:
Giving pregnant mothers a dTpa vaccine does not affect the ability of the booster shot of the 6-in-1
vaccine to protect their babies against diphtheria, tetanus, hepatitis B, Hib and polio.
The whooping cough antibodies transferred from mothers to infants during pregnancy may reduce
the infants’s ability to make their own antibodies against whooping cough but the importance of this
effect is not known.
The side effects of the 6-in-1 vaccine in infants of vaccinated mothers and mothers who did not get
dTpa vaccine during pregnancy are similar. They are known side effects of the vaccine.
Are there plans for further studies?
At the time this summary was prepared, no further studies were planned with the 6-in-1 vaccine in infants
born to mothers vaccinated against dTpa during their pregnancy.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase IV, open-label, non-randomised, multi-centre study to assess the immunogenicity and safety of a
booster dose of Infanrix hexa in healthy infants born to mothers vaccinated with Boostrix during
pregnancy or immediately post-delivery.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2014-001120-30
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02853929
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 19 November 2019. The information in this
summary does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more information in scientific
summaries of the study. Links to those summaries are provided below.