Are there plans for further studies?
This vaccine is being studied to find out how it works in pregnant women. The objective is to see if
vaccinating women while pregnant can protect newborns before the babies can themselves be
vaccinated.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A phase III, open-label, single-group, multi-centre study to assess the immunogenicity, safety and
reactogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ combined reduced antigen content diphtheria, tetanus, and acellular
pertussis (dTpa) vaccine, Boostrix, administered as a booster dose in healthy Russian subjects aged four
years and older
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2015-003405-42
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT03311659
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more
information in scientific summaries of the study. Links to those summaries are provided at the end of this
document.
This document was developed and approved by GSK on 16 October 2019. The information in this summary
does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.
For readers of this document in text form, the websites associated with the hyperlinks above are:
EudraCT summary: https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/search?query=2015-003405-42
US NIH/clinicaltrials.gov: https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT03311659