Page 1 of 7
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to learn about the effect of daprodustat given three times a week
on haemoglobin in patients with anaemia due to chronic kidney disease.
Full Scientific Title: A phase 3 randomised, double-blind, active-controlled, parallel-
group, multi-centre study in haemodialysis participants with anaemia of chronic kidney
disease to evaluate the efficacy and safety of three-times weekly dosing of daprodustat
compared to recombinant human erythropoietin, following a switch from recombinant
human erythropoietin or its analogues.
Study Number: 204837
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in September 2018 and ended in June 2020.
What was the main objective of this study?
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a long-term disease of the kidneys. Some people with
CKD cannot make enough red blood cells, which contain an oxygen-carrying protein
called haemoglobin (Hgb). This condition is called renal anaemia.
Patients with renal anaemia may be treated with erythropoiesis-stimulating agents
(ESAs), such as epoetin alfa. These agents trigger the body to make more red blood
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.