Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A Phase 1/2, randomized, observer-blind, controlled, multi-center, dose-escalation study to evaluate
safety, reactogenicity and immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ respiratory syncytial virus (RSV)
investigational vaccine based on the RSV viral proteins F, N and M2-1 encoded by chimpanzee-derived
adenovector (ChAd155-RSV) (GSK3389245A), when administered intramuscularly according to a 0, 1-
month schedule to RSV-seropositive infants aged 12 to 23 months.
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2016-000117-76
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT02927873
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
Version 1 of this document was developed and approved by GSK on 25 October 2021. The information in
this summary does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can find more information in scientific
summaries of the study. Links to those summaries are provided below.
For readers of this document in text form, the websites associated with the hyperlinks above are:
EudraCT summary:
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/ctr-search/trial/2016-000117-76/results
US NIH/clinicaltrials.gov:
https://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT02927873?term=204838&draw=2&rank=1