How has this study helped patients and researchers?
The results from this study show that RSV vaccine from other research studies, the findings from
was safe when given to babies. This summary this study may help improve the understanding
only shows results from one study. Other studies of RSV vaccine and RSV infections.
may find different results. Combined with results
Are there plans for further studies?
At the time of preparation of this summary, no The results of any future studies will be available
other studies to evaluate RSV vaccine were on the websites of European Medicines Agency
ongoing or planned. New studies with RSV and/or the United States National Institutes of
vaccine may be planned in the future. Health.
Where can I find more information about this study?
The detailed title for this research study is:
A Phase 1/2, randomized, observer-blind, controlled, multi-center study to evaluate safety, reactogenicity
and immunogenicity of GSK Biologicals’ respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) investigational vaccine based on
the RSV viral proteins F, N and M2-1 encoded by chimpanzee-derived adenovector (ChAd155-RSV)
(GSK3389245A), when administered intramuscularly as a single dose or as two doses according to a
0, 1- month schedule, to infants aged 6 and 7 months.
Clinical studies have unique study numbers. Below are the unique study numbers associated with this
study.
Organization Website Study Number
European Medicines Agency www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu 2018-000431-27
United States National Institutes www.clinicaltrials.gov NCT03636906
of Health (NIH)
Your doctor can help you understand more about this study and the results. You should not make
changes to your care based on the results of this or any single study.
Version 1 of this document was developed and approved by GSK on 22 April 2022. The information in this
summary does not include additional information available after this date.
Use of the data and information contained in this document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in applications
by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask that proper credit or
attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this document,
to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are
waived, licensed or otherwise affected.