Page 1 of 9
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to assess the effect and safety of belimumab when given in
combination with rituximab in participants with systemic lupus erythematosus.
Full Scientific Title: A phase 3, multi-centre, randomised, double-blind,
placebo-controlled, 104-week study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of belimumab
administered in combination with rituximab to adult subjects with systemic lupus
erythematosus.
Study Number: 205646
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
This study started in March 2018 and ended in July 2021.
What was the main reason for this study?
The immune system, which includes a type of white blood cell called B cells, protects
the body from germs such as bacteria and viruses. Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE)
is a long-term autoimmune disease in which B cells produce proteins called
autoantibodies. Autoantibodies attack the body’s own tissues and organs and can cause
inflammation. This disease can affect almost any organ in the body and the symptoms
vary across people with SLE. Common symptoms include skin rash and joint pain.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.