What were the side effects?
Unwanted medical events (adverse events) can happen to people when they receive a
medicine. Study doctors record these events. A summary of these events can be found
in the scientific results summaries (links to those summaries are provided at the end of
this document).
If the study doctor thinks that the event was caused by the study medicines, they
record this as a possible side effect (adverse reaction).
In this summary, “side effects” refer to those events that the study doctor thinks may
have been caused by the study medicines. The side effects in this summary may be
different to those in the Informed Consent or other documents related to the study
medicines.
Two serious side effects were reported. One patient (less than 1%) in Group 2 had a
serious side effect of a blood clot that went to the lung and resulted in the death of the
patient (fatal serious side effect). A review of this possible side effect was done using
results from other studies. The review showed that blood clots caused by the study
medicines is unlikely. One patient (less than 1%) in Group 6 reported a serious side
effect of abnormal rapid, irregular heartbeat. No serious side effects were reported in
the other treatment groups.
The table below shows the number of patients (percent) with non-serious side effects
that were reported by one percent or more of patients in any treatment group.
Number of patients (percent) with non-serious side effects that were
reported by one percent or more of patients in any treatment group
Group 1 Group 2 Group 3 Group 4 Group 5 Group 6
Treatment
Groups 407 405 406 406 404 408
patients patients patients patients patients patients
3 (less 4 (less 2 (less 3 (less
Hoarse voice 0 5 (1%)
than 1%) than 1%) than 1%) than 1%)
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This was a Phase III study. Phase III studies collect information about how well new
medicines work and how safe they are. The results help government regulators make
decisions about new medicines for their country. Researchers concluded that addition