Page 4 of 6
It was initially planned to have at least 50 participants in the study. When the study
was stopped, only five participants had received at least one dose of the study
medicine.
The study included three men (60%) and two women (40%). The average age was
57 years. The youngest participant was 36 years old and the oldest participant was
67 years old.
For more detailed information about the participants included in this study, see the
scientific results summaries (links to those summaries are provided at the end of this
document).
What were the main results of the study?
Study doctors measured each participant’s FBF on Day 1 and at Week 6. The difference
in the participant’s FBF values on Day 1 and at Week 6 was calculated. This is called the
change from baseline for each participant. The average change from baseline in FBF
was calculated for each treatment group.
The results were obtained only from four participants, who completed the study. These
were not enough to compare the effect of daprodustat with darbepoetin alfa on FBF in
participants with anaemia due to CKD. Hence, no conclusions could be drawn from
these results.
More information about the study results is available in the scientific results summaries
(links to those summaries are provided at the end of this document).
What were the side effects?
Unwanted medical events (adverse events) can happen to people when they receive a
medicine. Study doctors record these events. A summary of these events can be found
in the scientific results summaries (links to those summaries are provided at the end of
this document).
If the study doctor thinks that the event was caused by the study medicine, they record
this as a possible side effect (adverse reaction).
In this summary, side effects refer to those events that the study doctor thinks may
have been caused by the study medicine. The side effects in this summary may be
different to those in the Informed Consent or other documents related to the study
medicine.