Page 1 of 7
This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summaries of the study. Links to those
summaries are provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to compare single (Ellipta) inhaler triple therapy with multiple (non-
Ellipta) inhaler triple therapy in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
(INTREPID study).
Full Scientific Title: The clinical effectiveness of fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium
bromide/vilanterol in a single inhaler (Ellipta) when compared with non-Ellipta multiple
inhaler triple therapies in patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease within a
usual care setting.
Study Number: 206854
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When was this study done?
The study started in April 2018 and ended in October 2019.
What was the main objective of this study?
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a long-term disease of the lungs that
makes it hard to breathe and gets worse over time. Symptoms of COPD include cough,
phlegm production, shortness of breath, and chest tightness.
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease affects patients’ wellbeing and daily life. The
COPD Assessment Test (CAT) assesses the impact of COPD on patients’ wellbeing and
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.