This document provides a short summary of this study for a general audience. You can
find more information in the scientific summary of the study. A link to the summary is
provided at the end of this document.
Study names
Short Title: A study to assess long-term safety of triple therapy in Japanese patients
with asthma.
Full Scientific Title: A Phase III, 52-week, open-label study to evaluate long-term safety
of fixed dose combination therapy fluticasone furoate/umeclidinium bromide/
vilanterol trifenatate in Japanese patients with asthma.
Study Number: 207236
Who sponsored this study?
GlaxoSmithKline (GSK)
GSK Clinical Support Help Desk
Website: clinicalsupporthd.gsk.com/contact.html
Email: GSKClinicalSupportHD@gsk.com
General information about the clinical study
When and where was this study done?
The study started in June 2017 and ended in June 2019. All study sites were in Japan.
What was the main objective of this study?
Asthma is a long-term condition of the airways. When airways are inflamed, they
become narrow. This narrowing can cause coughing, wheezing, chest tightness, and
shortness of breath.
For patients with asthma, inhalers are an important part of treatment. An inhaler is a
handheld device that delivers medicine(s) to the lungs. Patients with asthma who need
to take three inhaled medicines (triple therapy) may use two or three inhalers. GSK has
developed the Ellipta inhaler that can deliver three medicines in one inhaler.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not
be used in applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using
these data, we ask that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK
disclaims liability for all uses of the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by
applicable law. No trademark, patent, or regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived,
licensed or otherwise affected.