General information about the research study
When was the study done? Meningitis happens when the tissues that cover
the brain and spinal cord (called “meninges”)
This study was done between August 30, 2018 become inflamed (swollen) because of infection.
and December 17, 2019. Each participant was Meningitis is rare but it can have very serious
asked to stay in the study for about 6 months. long-term effects such as deafness, seizures and
loss of limbs. Meningitis can even be deadly.
Why was this study done?
Meningitis is an infection. Meningococcus types
This study compared the safety and antibody A, C, W, and Y are among the most common
levels developed after injection of a new, fully bacterial causes of this disease. The two vaccines
liquid meningitis vaccine with that of the in this study are both aimed at protecting against
currently licensed vaccine. The new vaccine meningitis types A, C, W and Y.
comes in a single vial and was kept under proper
storage conditions for either 24 or 30 months
before being given to study volunteers.
Who took part in this study?
1690 participants from Brazil, Estonia, Finland,
France, Mexico, Russia, South Africa, Spain and
Turkey were vaccinated
10 to 40 years old whenvaccinated
961 females joined the study (57%)
729 males joined the study (43%)
People could take part in the study if they: Peoplecould not take part in the study if they:
were between 10 and 40 years old and healthy at first were allergic to any ingredient in the study vaccines
vaccination
had received any meningitis vaccine in the past, unless
Meningitis C vaccine was received when younger than
2 years old
had ever been sick with a meningitis infection
Which vaccines were studied?
A new fully liquid version of the meningitis ACWY The current vaccine comes in 2 vials. One has a
vaccine was compared to the curent approved dry powder that must be mixed with the liquid in
version of the same vaccine. the second vial before it can be given. Both
vaccines were given by injection in the arm.