General information about the research study
When was the study done? Study doctors collected information about
potential side effects to the vaccine given in this
The study started in March 2018 and ended in study according to 2 schedules:
September 2020.
− vaccination at 0, 2, 6 months;
Why was this study done? − vaccination at 0,2, 12 months.
This report focuses on the results of the main
Sometimes, an additional vaccine dose may
goals of the study. All results may be found in the
improve the immune response. We first need to
clinical results summary.
find out if it is safe to give that additional dose to
people, and what is the best time to give it. The Non Typeable Haemophilus influenzae and
main goal of the study was to see if a third dose Moraxella catarrhalis (NTHi and Mcat) are
of the NTHi Mcat vaccine is safe if it given 6 or 12 bacteria that can cause the worsening of a
months after the second dose. chronic lung disease known as chronic
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), where
To be sure that vaccination with NTHi Mcat
the airflow to lungs is obstructed, making it
vaccine is beneficial, it is important to
difficult to breathe. Vaccines can help protect
understand the side effects this vaccine may
against infection by NTHi and Mcat. They contain
have.
parts of the bacteria that cannot cause infection.
These parts help the body make defenses, known
as antibodies, against those bacteria.
Who took part in this study?
200 adults from the United Kingdom,
Germany, and Canada.
40 to 80 years old when they got their first
vaccination.
89 women (45%)
111 men (55%)
Adults could take part in the study if Adults could not take part in the study if
they: they:
were former or current smokers with a previously received vaccines containing NTHi
smoking history of 10 or more pack-years and/or Mcat
did not have respiratory disorders, were pregnant or planning to become
autoimmune diseases, alcoholism and/or pregnant or were breastfeeding when they
drug abuse started the study