A Phase I/II, open-label, two-part study of GSK3359609 in combination with
tremelimumab in participants with selected, advanced solid tumors
A study sponsored by GlaxoSmithKline (GSK).
Study Number: 207871
Why was this study done?
Researchers wanted to know if a combination of GSK3359609 and tremelimumab is safe and tolerable and
to see if these medicines might help people with relapsed/refractory head and neck squamous cell
carcinomas survive longer. They designed a two-part study. Part 1 looked at different doses in participants
with solid tumors, and Part 2 would focus on people with relapsed/refractory head and neck squamous cell
carcinomas.
What did the researchers do and find?
In Part 1, researchers tested three doses of GSK3359609 (8 mg, 24 mg, and 80 mg) and two doses of
tremelimumab (75 mg and 225 mg). Adults with advanced, selected solid tumors that had relapsed or were
refractory to standard therapies could join the study.
A total of 26 participants received at least one dose of the study medicines.
The study started in November 2018 and ended in September 2021. More than half of the participants were
male (65%). Participants ranged in age from 36 to 83 years old.
Less than 25% of participants experienced dose limiting toxicities (DLTs). This was considered by researchers
to be an acceptable number.
All participants reported at least one adverse event. Four participants stopped taking the study medicines
because of adverse events.
Nineteen of 26 participants (73%) experienced at least one adverse event that the study doctors thought
was related to the study medicines (side effect). The two most frequent side effects were diarrhoea and
tiredness.
Seventeen of 26 participants (65%) died during the study due to their underlying disease. Most of the
deaths (15 of 17 participants) happened more than 30 days from the last dose of the study medicines.
Use of the data and information contained in this Document is unrestricted, provided that it may not be used in
applications by others for regulatory approval of a product. While not required, when using these data, we ask
that proper credit or attribution of GSK as the source of the data be given. GSK disclaims liability for all uses of
the data by users of this Document, to the fullest extent permitted by applicable law. No trademark, patent, or
regulatory/data exclusivity rights held by GSK are waived, licensed, or otherwise affected.