Background
Malignant gastric outlet obstruction is the clinical and pathological consequence of cancerous disease causing a mechanical obstruction to gastric emptying. It usually occurs when malignancy is at an advanced stage; therefore, people have a limited life expectancy. It is of paramount importance to restore oral intake to improve quality of life for the person in a manner that has a minimal risk of complications and a short recovery period. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of endoscopic stent placement versus surgical palliation for people with symptomatic malignant gastric outlet obstruction. 
Search methods
In May 2018 we searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid Embase and Ovid CINAHL. We screened reference lists from included studies and review articles. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing stent placement with surgical palliation for people with gastric outlet obstruction secondary to malignant disease. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted study data. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for binary outcomes, mean difference (MD) or standardised mean difference (SMD) with 95% CI for continuous outcomes and the hazard ratio (HR) for time‐to‐event outcomes. We performed meta‐analyses where meaningful. We assessed the quality of evidence using GRADE criteria. 
Main results
We identified three randomised controlled trials with 84 participants. Forty‐one participants underwent surgical palliation and 43 participants underwent duodenal stent placement. There may have been little or no difference in the technical success of the procedure (RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.09; low‐quality evidence), or whether the time to resumption of oral intake was quicker for participants who had undergone duodenal stent placement (MD ‐3.07 days, 95% CI ‐4.76 to ‐1.39; low‐quality evidence). 
Due to very low‐quality evidence, we were uncertain whether surgical palliation improved all‐cause mortality and median survival postintervention. 
The time to recurrence of obstructive symptoms may have increased slightly following duodenal stenting (RR 5.08, 95% CI 0.96 to 26.74; moderate‐quality evidence). 
Due to very low‐quality evidence, we were uncertain whether surgical palliation improved serious and minor adverse events. The heterogeneity for adverse events was moderately high (serious adverse events: Chi² = 1.71; minor adverse events: Chi² = 3.08), reflecting the differences in definitions used and therefore, may have impacted the outcomes. The need for reintervention may have increased following duodenal stenting (RR 4.71, 95% CI 1.36 to 16.30; very low‐quality evidence). 
The length of hospital stay may have been shorter (by approximately 4 to 10 days) following stenting (MD ‐6.70 days, 95% CI ‐9.41 to ‐3.98; moderate‐quality evidence). 
Authors' conclusions
The use of duodenal stent placement in malignant gastric outlet obstruction has the benefits of a quicker resumption of oral intake and a reduced inpatient hospital stay; however, this is balanced by an increase in the recurrence of symptoms and the need for further intervention. 
