Background
Progress in early labour is usually slow and may include painful uterine contractions. Women may feel distressed and lose their confidence during this phase. Support and assessment interventions have been assessed in two previous Cochrane Reviews. This review updates and replaces these two reviews. 
Objectives
To investigate the effect of assessment and support interventions for women during early labour on the duration of labour, the rate of obstetric interventions, and on other maternal and neonatal outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (31 October 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled and cluster randomised trials of any assessment or support intervention in the latent phase of labour. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, and extracted data. We resolved any disagreement by discussion or by involving a third assessor. The quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included five trials including 10,421 pregnant women and a cluster randomised trial with 2183 women. Trials were conducted in the UK, Canada and America and compared interventions in early labour versus usual care. We examined four comparisons: early labour assessment versus immediate admission to hospital; home visits by midwives versus usual care (telephone triage); one‐to‐one structured midwifery care versus usual care and hospital assessment using an algorithm for labour diagnosis versus usual assessment. Trials were at moderate‐ risk of bias mainly because blinding women and staff to these interventions is not generally feasible. For important outcomes we assessed evidence using GRADE; we downgraded evidence for study design limitations, imprecision, and where we carried out meta‐analysis, for inconsistency. 
