Background
When primary root canal therapy fails, periapical lesions can be retreated with or without surgery. Root canal retreatment is a non‐surgical procedure that involves removal of root canal filling materials from the tooth, followed by cleaning, shaping and obturating of the canals. Root‐end resection is a surgical procedure that involves exposure of the periapical lesion through an osteotomy, surgical removal of the lesion, removal of part of the root‐end tip, disinfection and, commonly, retrograde sealing or filling of the apical portion of the remaining root canal. This review updates one published in 2008. 
Objectives
To assess effects of surgical and non‐surgical therapy for retreatment of teeth with apical periodontitis. 
To assess effects of surgical root‐end resection under various conditions, for example, when different materials, devices or techniques are used. 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases: the Cochrane Oral Health Trials Register (to 10 February 2016), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 1), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 10 February 2016) and Embase Ovid (1980 to 10 February 2016). We searched the US National Registry of Clinical Trials (ClinicalTrials.gov) and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for ongoing trials (to 10 February 2016). We placed no restrictions regarding language and publication date. We handsearched the reference lists of the studies retrieved and key journals in the field of endodontics. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving people with periapical pathosis. Studies could compare surgery versus non‐surgical treatment or could compare different types of surgery. Outcome measures were healing of the periapical lesion assessed after one‐year follow‐up or longer; postoperative pain and discomfort; and adverse effects such as tooth loss, mobility, soft tissue recession, abscess, infection, neurological damage or loss of root sealing material evaluated through radiographs. 
