Background
A solution for increasing the number of available organs for transplantation is to encourage more individuals to register a commitment for deceased organ donation. However, the percentage of the population registered for organ donation remains low in many countries. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits and harms of various interventions used to increase deceased organ donor registration. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 11 August 2020 through contact with an Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster RCTs and quasi‐RCTs of interventions to promote deceased organ donor registration. We included studies if they measured self‐reported or verified donor registration, intention to donate, intention to register a decision or number of individuals signing donor cards as outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed retrieved studies and extracted data from included studies. We assessed studies for risk of bias. We obtained summary estimates of effect using a random‐effects model and expressed results as risk ratios (RR) (95% confidence intervals; CI) for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference (MD; 95% CI) or standardised mean difference (SMD; 95% CI) for continuous outcomes. In multi‐arm trials, data were pooled to create single pair‐wise comparisons. Analyses were stratified by specific intervention setting where available. 
Main results
Our search strategy identified 46 studies (47 primary articles, including one abstract) comprising 24 parallel RCTs, 19 cluster RCTs and 3 quasi‐RCTs. Sample sizes ranged from 138 to 1,085,292 (median = 514). A total of 16 studies measured registration behaviour, 27 measured intention to register/donate and three studies measured both registration behaviour and intention to register. 
