Background
Post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS) is a long‐term complication of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) that is characterised by pain, swelling, and skin changes in the affected limb. One in three patients with DVT will develop post‐thrombotic sequelae within five years. Rutosides are a group of compounds derived from horse chestnut (Aesculus hippocastanum), a traditional herbal remedy for treating oedema formation in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). However, it is not known whether rutosides are effective and safe in the treatment of PTS. This is the second update of the review first published in 2013. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness (improvement or deterioration in symptoms) and safety of rutosides for treatment of post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS) in patients with DVT compared to placebo, no intervention, elastic compression stockings (ECS) or any other treatment. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL databases and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 21 August 2018. 
Selection criteria
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion. Studies were included to allow the comparison of rutosides versus placebo or no treatment, rutosides versus ECS, and rutosides versus any other treatment. Two review authors extracted information from the trials. Disagreements were resolved by discussion. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted using designated data extraction forms. The Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool was used for all included studies to assist in the assessment of quality. Primary outcome measures were the occurrence of leg ulceration over time (yes or no) and any improvement or deterioration of post‐thrombotic syndrome (yes or no). Secondary outcomes included reduction of oedema, pain, recurrence of DVT or pulmonary embolism, compliance with therapy, and adverse effects. All of the outcome measures were analysed using Mantel‐Haenzel fixed‐effect model odds ratios. The unit of analysis was the number of patients. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome. 
