Background
There is evidence that the process of transition from paediatric (child) to adult health services is often associated with deterioration in the health of adolescents with chronic conditions.Transitional care is the term used to describe services that seek to bridge this care gap. It has been defined as ‘the purposeful, planned movement of adolescents and young adults with chronic physical and medical conditions from child‐centred to adult‐oriented health care systems’. In order to develop appropriate services for adolescents, evidence of what works and what factors act as barriers and facilitators of effective interventions is needed. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions designed to improve the transition of care for adolescents from paediatric to adult health services. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 2015, Issue 1, (including the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care Group Specialised Register), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and Web of Knowledge to 19 June 2015. We also searched reference lists of included studies and relevant reviews, and contacted experts and study authors for additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs), controlled before‐ and after‐studies (CBAs), and interrupted time‐series studies (ITSs) that evaluated the effectiveness of any intervention (care model or clinical pathway), that aimed to improve the transition of care for adolescents from paediatric to adult health services. We considered adolescents with any chronic condition that required ongoing clinical care, who were leaving paediatric services and going on to receive services in adult healthcare units, and their families. Participating providers included all health professionals responsible for the care of young people. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data from included papers, assessed the risk of bias of each study, and assessed the certainty of the evidence for the main comparisons using GRADE. Discrepancies were resolved by discussion. Authors were contacted for missing data. We reported the findings of the studies as pre‐ and post‐intervention means and calculated the unadjusted absolute change from baseline with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
We included four RCTs (N = 238 participants) that explored: a two‐day workshop‐based transition preparation training for adolescents with spina bifida; a nurse‐led, one‐on‐one, teaching session with the additional support of a ‘health passport’ for adolescents with heart disease; a web‐ and SMS‐based educational intervention for adolescents with a range of different conditions; and a structured comprehensive transition programme with a transition co‐ordinator for adolescents with type 1 diabetes. 
One study evaluating a one‐on‐one nurse‐led intervention, and one evaluating a technology‐based intervention suggested that these interventions may lead to slight improvements in transitional readiness and chronic disease self‐management measured at six‐ to eight‐month follow‐ups (low certainty evidence). Results with the TRAQ self‐management tool were: MD 0.20; 95% CI ‐0.16 to 0.56 and MD 0.43; 95% CI; ‐0.09 to 0.95; with the TRAQ self‐advocacy tool: MD 0.37; 95% CI ‐0.06 to 0.80; and with the PAM tool were: MD 10; 95% CI 2.96 to 17.04. In contrast, transition‐preparation training delivered via a two‐day workshop for patients with spina bifida may lead to little or no difference in measures of self‐care practice and general health behaviours when measured using the DSCPI‐90©. 
Two studies evaluated the use of health services. One study evaluated a technology‐based intervention and another a comprehensive transition programme; these interventions may lead to slightly more young people taking positive steps to initiate contact with health professionals themselves (Relative risk (RR): 4.87; 95% CI 0.24 to 98.12 and RR 1.50; 95% CI 0.32 to 6.94, respectively; low certainty evidence. 
Young people’s knowledge of their disease may slightly improve with a nurse‐led, one‐on‐one intervention to prepare young people for transition to an adult congenital heart programme (MD 14; 95% CI 2.67 to 25.33; one study; low certainty evidence). 
