Background
Achalasia is a disease that impairs oesophageal motility. Although nitrates have been used to treat achalasia for a long time, the effectiveness of nitrates for achalasia is still controversial. Newer therapies have to some extent superceded the use of nitrates for achalasia, but nitrates may still be used in early or mild disease, in patients who are unsuitable for surgery or invasive procedures, or when botulinum injection therapy has failed. 
Objectives
To quantify short‐term and long‐term effects of nitrate therapy in participants with achalasia. 
Search methods
Trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (Issue 4‐2001), MEDLINE (1966‐2001), EMBASE (1980‐2001), LILACS ‐ Latin American and Caribbean health science literature (1982‐2001) and CBM‐Chinese Biomedical database(1980‐2000). Additionally, all references in the identified trials were checked for further relevant trials. An updated search was run on the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, and EMBASE in September 2003, October 2004, September 2005 and December 2008. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials involving achalasic participants given any type of nitrates were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted by two independent observers.
Main results
Two randomised cross‐over studies were found, but no results were included. Due to the design of the studies and the method of reporting the results in the original paper it was not possible to extract the necessary information to examine any of the outcomes. 
Authors' conclusions
From most of the single reports we found, after intake of nitrates (either nitroglycerin or isosorbide dinitrate), there was a fall in lower oesophageal pressure and improvement of radionuclide esophageal emptying compared to the baseline. From the available evidence, we cannot provide any implications for practice. Appropriately designed, parallel group, randomised controlled trials with long term follow‐up are needed to determine the effects of nitrates for achalasia. 
