Background
Endotracheal tubes are foreign bodies that may injure the upper airway causing laryngeal edema. This in turn may result in failure of extubation in preterm infants. Corticosteroids have been used prophylactically to reduce upper airway obstruction and facilitate extubation. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of intravenous corticosteroids on the incidence of endotracheal reintubation, stridor, atelectasis and adverse side effects in newborn infants having their endotracheal tube removed following a period of intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV). 
Search methods
Searches were made of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library) (dexamethasone and extub*), MEDLINE (MeSH search terms "dexamethasone", "extubat*" and "exp infant, newborn"), previous reviews including cross references, abstracts of conferences and symposia proceedings, expert informants and journal handsearching mainly in the English language. These searches were updated in August 2007. 
Selection criteria
Trials were included that used random or quasi‐random patient allocation and compared intravenous steroids given immediately prior to a planned extubation with placebo. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted independently by the two authors and analysed in RevMan for all trials. Prespecified subgroup analyses were performed to examine differences in response between infants at high risk for upper airway edema and those receiving routine prophylaxis prior to extubation. 
Main results
Administration of dexamethasone prior to extubation significantly reduced the need for reintubation of the trachea. This result applies to both the high‐risk group and to the total population of infants enrolled. However, the incidence of extubation failure was zero in the trial that attempted to exclude infants at high risk of airway edema. The side effects of higher blood sugar levels and glycosuria were found in the two trials where these were sought. 
