Background
Endometriosis is a common gynaecological condition affecting 10% to 15% of reproductive‐age women and may cause dyspareunia, dysmenorrhoea, and infertility. One treatment strategy is combining surgery and medical therapy to reduce the recurrence of endometriosis. Though the combination of surgery and medical therapy appears to be beneficial, there is a lack of clarity about the appropriate timing of when medical therapy should be used in relation with surgery, that is, before, after, or both before and after surgery, to maximize treatment response. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of medical therapies for hormonal suppression before, after, or both before and after surgery for endometriosis for improving painful symptoms, reducing disease recurrence, and increasing pregnancy rates. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility (CGF) Group trials register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and two trials registers in November 2019 together with reference checking and contact with study authors and experts in the field to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) which compared medical therapies for hormonal suppression before, after, or before and after, therapeutic surgery for endometriosis. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. Where possible, we combined data using risk ratio (RR), standardized mean difference or mean difference (MD) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). Primary outcomes were: painful symptoms of endometriosis as measured by a visual analogue scale (VAS) of pain, other validated scales or dichotomous outcomes; and recurrence of disease as evidenced by EEC (Endoscopic Endometriosis Classification), rAFS (revised American Fertility Society), or rASRM (revised American Society for Reproductive Medicine) scores at second‐look laparoscopy. 
Main results
We included 25 trials with 3378 women with endometriosis. We used the term "surgery alone" to refer to placebo or no medical therapy. 
Presurgical medical therapy compared with placebo or no medical therapy 
Compared to surgery alone, we are uncertain if presurgical medical hormonal suppression reduces pain recurrence at 12 months or less (dichotomous) (RR 1.10, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.66; 1 RCT, n = 262; very low‐quality evidence) or whether it reduces disease recurrence at 12 months – total (AFS score) (MD –9.6, 95% CI –11.42 to –7.78; 1 RCT, n = 80; very low‐quality evidence). 
We are uncertain if presurgical medical hormonal suppression decreases disease recurrence at 12 months or less (EEC stage) compared to surgery alone (RR 1.11, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.43; 1 RCT, n = 262; very low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain if presurgical medical hormonal suppression improves pregnancy rates compared to surgery alone (RR 1.18, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.45; 1 RCT, n = 262; very low‐quality evidence). No trials reported pelvic pain at 12 months or less (continuous) or disease recurrence at 12 months or less. 
