Background
Reducing high blood cholesterol, a risk factor for cardiovascular disease (CVD) events in people with and without a past history of CVD is an important goal of pharmacotherapy. Statins are the first‐choice agents. Previous reviews of the effects of statins have highlighted their benefits in people with CVD. The case for primary prevention was uncertain when the last version of this review was published (2011) and in light of new data an update of this review is required. 
Objectives
To assess the effects, both harms and benefits, of statins in people with no history of CVD. 
Search methods
To avoid duplication of effort, we checked reference lists of previous systematic reviews. The searches conducted in 2007 were updated in January 2012. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library (2022, Issue 4), MEDLINE OVID (1950 to December Week 4 2011) and EMBASE OVID (1980 to 2012 Week 1).There were no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials of statins versus placebo or usual care control with minimum treatment duration of one year and follow‐up of six months, in adults with no restrictions on total, low density lipoprotein (LDL) or high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol levels, and where 10% or less had a history of CVD. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies for inclusion and extracted data. Outcomes included all‐cause mortality, fatal and non‐fatal CHD, CVD and stroke events, combined endpoints (fatal and non‐fatal CHD, CVD and stroke events), revascularisation, change in total and LDL cholesterol concentrations, adverse events, quality of life and costs. Odds ratios (OR) and risk ratios (RR) were calculated for dichotomous data, and for continuous data, pooled mean differences (MD) (with 95% confidence intervals (CI)) were calculated. We contacted trial authors to obtain missing data. 
Main results
The latest search found four new trials and updated follow‐up data on three trials included in the original review. Eighteen randomised control trials (19 trial arms; 56,934 participants) were included. Fourteen trials recruited patients with specific conditions (raised lipids, diabetes, hypertension, microalbuminuria). All‐cause mortality was reduced by statins (OR 0.86, 95% CI 0.79 to 0.94); as was combined fatal and non‐fatal CVD RR 0.75 (95% CI 0.70 to 0.81), combined fatal and non‐fatal CHD events RR 0.73 (95% CI 0.67 to 0.80) and combined fatal and non‐fatal stroke (RR 0.78, 95% CI 0.68 to 0.89). Reduction of revascularisation rates (RR 0.62, 95% CI 0.54 to 0.72) was also seen. Total cholesterol and LDL cholesterol were reduced in all trials but there was evidence of heterogeneity of effects. There was no evidence of any serious harm caused by statin prescription. Evidence available to date showed that primary prevention with statins is likely to be cost‐effective and may improve patient quality of life. Recent findings from the Cholesterol Treatment Trialists study using individual patient data meta‐analysis indicate that these benefits are similar in people at lower (< 1% per year) risk of a major cardiovascular event. 
