Background
Vitamin and mineral deficiencies, particularly those of iron, vitamin A, and zinc, affect more than two billion people worldwide. Young children are highly vulnerable because of rapid growth and inadequate dietary practices. Multiple micronutrient powders (MNPs) are single‐dose packets containing multiple vitamins and minerals in powder form, which are mixed into any semi‐solid food for children six months of age or older. The use of MNPs for home or point‐of‐use fortification of complementary foods has been proposed as an intervention for improving micronutrient intake in children under two years of age. In 2014, MNP interventions were implemented in 43 countries and reached over three million children. 
This review updates a previous Cochrane Review, which has become out‐of‐date.
Objectives
To assess the effects and safety of home (point‐of‐use) fortification of foods with MNPs on nutrition, health, and developmental outcomes in children under two years of age. 
For the purposes of this review, home fortification with MNP refers to the addition of powders containing vitamins and minerals to semi‐solid foods immediately before consumption. This can be done at home or at any other place that meals are consumed (e.g. schools, refugee camps). For this reason, MNPs are also referred to as point‐of‐use fortification. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to July 2019: CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and eight other databases. We also searched four trials registers, contacted relevant organisations and authors of included studies to identify any ongoing or unpublished studies, and searched the reference lists of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs with individual randomisation or cluster‐randomisation. Participants were infants and young children aged 6 to 23 months at the time of intervention, with no identified specific health problems. The intervention consisted of consumption of food fortified at the point of use with MNP formulated with at least iron, zinc, and vitamin A, compared with placebo, no intervention, or use of iron‐containing supplements, which is standard practice. 
