Background
Cardiovascular disease is the number one cause of death globally. According to the World Health Organization, 7.4 million people died from ischaemic heart diseases in 2012, constituting 15% of all deaths. Acute myocardial infarction is caused by blockage of the blood supplied to the heart muscle. Beta‐blockers are often used in patients with acute myocardial infarction. Previous meta‐analyses on the topic have shown conflicting results ranging from harms, neutral effects, to benefits. No previous systematic review using Cochrane methodology has assessed the effects of beta‐blockers for acute myocardial infarction. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of beta‐blockers compared with placebo or no intervention in people with suspected or diagnosed acute myocardial infarction. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, Science Citation Index Expanded and BIOSIS Citation Index in June 2019. We also searched the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, ClinicalTrials.gov, Turning Research into Practice, Google Scholar, SciSearch, and the reference lists of included trials and previous reviews in August 2019. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised clinical trials assessing the effects of beta‐blockers versus placebo or no intervention in people with suspected or diagnosed acute myocardial infarction. Trials were included irrespective of trial design, setting, blinding, publication status, publication year, language, and reporting of our outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed the Cochrane methodological recommendations. Four review authors independently extracted data. Our primary outcomes were all‐cause mortality, serious adverse events according to the International Conference on Harmonization ‐ Good Clinical Practice (ICH‐GCP), and major adverse cardiovascular events (composite of cardiovascular mortality and non‐fatal myocardial infarction during follow‐up). Our secondary outcomes were quality of life, angina, cardiovascular mortality, and myocardial infarction during follow‐up. Our primary time point of interest was less than three months after randomisation. We also assessed the outcomes at maximum follow‐up beyond three months. Due to risk of multiplicity, we calculated a 97.5% confidence interval (CI) for the primary outcomes and a 98% CI for the secondary outcomes. We assessed the risks of systematic errors through seven bias domains in accordance to the instructions given in the Cochrane Handbook. The quality of the body of evidence was assessed by GRADE. 
