Background
Strabismus, also known as squint, can have a debilitating effect on a person’s self‐esteem, quality of life and mood, as well as increase their feelings of social anxiety and avoidance behaviour. Strabismus surgery can improve both the alignment of a person's eyes and, in appropriate cases, relieve symptoms such as double vision. However, evidence indicates that not all patients experience a meaningful improvement in their quality of life postsurgery. Pre‐surgical psychosocial interventions have been found to improve patient reported outcomes in other long‐term conditions. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of psychosocial interventions versus no intervention on quality of life and psychosocial outcomes in adults undergoing strabismus surgery. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision group Trials Register) (2016, Issue 1), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to February 2016), EMBASE (January 1980 to February 2016), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to February 2016), PsycINFO (January 1967 to February 2016), the ISRCTN registry (www.isrctn.com/editAdvancedSearch), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 15 February 2016. 
We also manually searched the British Orthoptic Journal, proceedings of the European Strabismological Association (ESA), International Strabismological Association (ISA) and published transactions from the meetings of European Strabismus Association (ESA) and American Association for Pediatric Ophthalmology and Strabismus (AAPOS). These were searched from 1980 to present. We also carried out handsearches of Psychology and Health, British Journal of Health Psychology, Health Psychology and Annals of Behavioral Medicine. 
