Background
There is pre‐clinical evidence, involving several animal species, suggesting that opioid peptides play a role in the physiopathology of shock (endotoxic, hypovolemic, cardiogenic, spinal, anaphylactic). Many case reports have suggested that naloxone (an opiate antagonist) might be an effective treatment for shock in humans, but others have not supported such a point of view. This controversy led us to undertake a meta‐analysis of the available evidence on the efficacy of naloxone as a treatment measure for shock in humans. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of naloxone in human shock and to estimate the methodological quality of the clinical trials. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Injuries Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE (Ovid SP), PubMed, EMBASE (Ovid SP), ISI Web of Science: Science Citation Index Expanded (SCI‐EXPANDED), and ISI Web of Science: Conference Proceedings Citation Index‐Science (CPCI‐S) (to December 2008). In order to identify further studies the reference lists of all included papers were examined and the primary investigators of eligible studies were contacted. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials evaluating naloxone in human shock, regardless of the patient's age (adult, child, or neonate). 
Data collection and analysis
Three independent review authors extracted data on study design, intervention, outcomes, and methodological quality. 
Main results
Three independent readers reviewed 120 publications and selected six clinical trials. Overall agreement on study selection was perfect (concordance: 100%). The meta‐analysis includes six studies involving 126 patients with septic, cardiogenic, hemorrhagic, or spinal shock. 
Naloxone therapy was associated with statistically significant hemodynamic improvement (odds ratio 0.24; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.09 to 0.68). The mean arterial pressure was significantly higher in the naloxone groups than in the placebo groups (weighted mean difference +9.33 mm Hg; 95% CI 7.07 to 11.59). No heterogeneity was found for this outcome. The death rate was lower in the naloxone group (odds ratio 0.59; 95% CI 0.21 was 1.67) but this was consistent with the play of chance. A significant heterogeneity was detected for the latter outcome (P < 0.05). 
