Background
This is the first update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2015. Renin angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors include angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) and renin inhibitors. They are widely prescribed for treatment of hypertension, especially for people with diabetes because of postulated advantages for reducing diabetic nephropathy and cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Despite widespread use for hypertension, the efficacy and safety of RAS inhibitors compared to other antihypertensive drug classes remains unclear. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits and harms of first‐line RAS inhibitors compared to other first‐line antihypertensive drugs in people with hypertension. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Hypertension Group Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomized controlled trials up to November 2017: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and ClinicalTrials.gov. We also contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. The searches had no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized, active‐controlled, double‐blinded studies (RCTs) with at least six months follow‐up in people with elevated blood pressure (≥ 130/85 mmHg), which compared first‐line RAS inhibitors with other first‐line antihypertensive drug classes and reported morbidity and mortality or blood pressure outcomes. We excluded people with proven secondary hypertension. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected the included trials, evaluated the risks of bias and entered the data for analysis. 
Main results
This update includes three new RCTs, totaling 45 in all, involving 66,625 participants, with a mean age of 66 years. Much of the evidence for our key outcomes is dominated by a small number of large RCTs at low risk for most sources of bias. Imbalances in the added second‐line antihypertensive drugs in some of the studies were important enough for us to downgrade the quality of the evidence. 
