Background
Platelet transfusions are used to prevent and treat bleeding in people who are thrombocytopenic. Despite improvements in donor screening and laboratory testing, a small risk of viral, bacterial, or protozoal contamination of platelets remains. There is also an ongoing risk from newly emerging blood transfusion‐transmitted infections for which laboratory tests may not be available at the time of initial outbreak. 
One solution to reduce the risk of blood transfusion‐transmitted infections from platelet transfusion is photochemical pathogen reduction, in which pathogens are either inactivated or significantly depleted in number, thereby reducing the chance of transmission. This process might offer additional benefits, including platelet shelf‐life extension, and negate the requirement for gamma‐irradiation of platelets. Although current pathogen‐reduction technologies have been proven to reduce pathogen load in platelet concentrates, a number of published clinical studies have raised concerns about the effectiveness of pathogen‐reduced platelets for post‐transfusion platelet count recovery and the prevention of bleeding when compared with standard platelets. 
This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2013.
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of pathogen‐reduced platelets for the prevention of bleeding in people of any age requiring platelet transfusions. 
Search methods
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library 2016, Issue 9), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), CINAHL (from 1937), the Transfusion Evidence Library (from 1950), and ongoing trial databases to 24 October 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs comparing the transfusion of pathogen‐reduced platelets with standard platelets, or comparing different types of pathogen‐reduced platelets. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We identified five new trials in this update of the review. A total of 15 trials were eligible for inclusion in this review, 12 completed trials (2075 participants) and three ongoing trials. Ten of the 12 completed trials were included in the original review. We did not identify any RCTs comparing the transfusion of one type of pathogen‐reduced platelets with another. 
Nine trials compared Intercept® pathogen‐reduced platelets to standard platelets, two trials compared Mirasol® pathogen‐reduced platelets to standard platelets; and one trial compared both pathogen‐reduced platelets types to standard platelets. Three RCTs were randomised cross‐over trials, and nine were parallel‐group trials. Of the 2075 participants enrolled in the trials, 1981 participants received at least one platelet transfusion (1662 participants in Intercept® platelet trials and 319 in Mirasol® platelet trials). 
One trial included children requiring cardiac surgery (16 participants) or adults requiring a liver transplant (28 participants). All of the other participants were thrombocytopenic individuals who had a haematological or oncological diagnosis. Eight trials included only adults. 
Four of the included studies were at low risk of bias in every domain, while the remaining eight included studies had some threats to validity. 
Overall, the quality of the evidence was low to high across different outcomes according to GRADE methodology. 
We are very uncertain as to whether pathogen‐reduced platelets increase the risk of any bleeding (World Health Organization (WHO) Grade 1 to 4) (5 trials, 1085 participants; fixed‐effect risk ratio (RR) 1.09, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.02 to 1.15; I2 = 59%, random‐effect RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.38; I2 = 59%; low‐quality evidence). 
There was no evidence of a difference between pathogen‐reduced platelets and standard platelets in the incidence of clinically significant bleeding complications (WHO Grade 2 or higher) (5 trials, 1392 participants; RR 1.10, 95% CI 0.97 to 1.25; I2 = 0%; moderate‐quality evidence), and there is probably no difference in the risk of developing severe bleeding (WHO Grade 3 or higher) (6 trials, 1495 participants; RR 1.24, 95% CI 0.76 to 2.02; I2 = 32%; moderate‐quality evidence). 
