Background
The increased birth rate of twins during recent decades and the improved prognosis of preterm infants have resulted in the need to explore measures that could optimize their growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes. It has been postulated that co‐bedding simulates twins' intrauterine experiences in which co‐regulatory behaviors between them are observed. These behaviors are proposed to benefit twins by reducing their stress, which may promote growth and development. However, in practice, uncertainty surrounds the benefit‐risk profile of co‐bedding. 
Objectives
We aimed to assess the effectiveness of co‐bedding compared with separate (individual) care for stable preterm twins in the neonatal nursery in promoting growth and neurodevelopment and reducing short‐ and long‐term morbidities, and to determine whether co‐bedding is associated with significant adverse effects. 
As secondary objectives, we sought to evaluate effects of co‐bedding via the following subgroup analyses: twin pairs with different weight ranges (very low birth weight [VLBW] < 1500 grams vs non‐VLBW), twins with versus without significant growth discordance at birth, preterm versus borderline preterm twins, twins co‐bedded in incubator versus cot at study entry, and twins randomized by twin pair versus neonatal unit. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group (CNRG). We used keywords and medical subject headings (MeSH) to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2), MEDLINE (via PubMed), EMBASE (hosted by EBSCOHOST), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and references cited in our short‐listed articles, up to February 29, 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials with randomization by twin pair and/or by neonatal unit. We excluded cross‐over studies. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data using standard methods of the CNRG. Two review authors independently assessed the relevance and risk of bias of retrieved records. We contacted the authors of included studies to request important information missing from their published papers. We expressed our results using risk ratios (RRs) and mean differences (MDs) when appropriate, along with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). We adjusted the unit of analysis from individual infants to twin pairs by averaging measurements for each twin pair (continuous outcomes) or by counting outcomes as positive if developed by either twin (dichotomous outcomes). 
Main results
Six studies met the inclusion criteria; however, only five studies provided data for analysis. Four of the six included studies were small and had significant limitations in design. As each study reported outcomes differently, data for most outcomes were effectively contributed by a single study. Study authors reported no differences between co‐bedded twins and twins receiving separate care in terms of rate of weight gain (MD 0.20 grams/kg/d, 95% CI ‐1.60 to 2.00; one study; 18 pairs of twins; evidence of low quality); apnea, bradycardia, and desaturation (A/B/D) episodes (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.18 to 4.05; one study; 62 pairs of twins; evidence of low quality); episodes in co‐regulated states (MD 0.96, 95% CI ‐3.44 to 5.36; one study; three pairs of twins; evidence of very low quality); suspected or proven infection (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.30 to 2.31; three studies; 65 pairs of twins; evidence of very low quality); length of hospital stay (MD ‐4.90 days, 95% CI ‐35.23 to 25.43; one study; three pairs of twins; evidence of very low quality); and parental satisfaction measured on a scale of 0 to 55 (MD ‐0.38, 95% CI ‐4.49 to 3.73; one study; nine pairs of twins; evidence of moderate quality). Although co‐bedded twins appeared to have lower pain scores 30 seconds after heel lance on a scale of 0 to 21 (MD ‐0.96, 95% CI ‐1.68 to ‐0.23; two studies; 117 pairs of twins; I2 = 75%; evidence of low quality), they had higher pain scores 90 seconds after the procedure (MD 1.00, 95% CI 0.14 to 1.86; one study; 62 pairs of twins). Substantial heterogeneity in the outcome of infant pain response after heel prick at 30 seconds post procedure and conflicting results at 30 and 90 seconds post procedure precluded clear conclusions. 
