Background
Delayed motor development may occur in children with Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, general developmental delay or children born preterm. It limits the child's exploration of the environment and can hinder cognitive and social‐emotional development. Literature suggests that task‐specific training, such as locomotor treadmill training, facilitates motor development. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of treadmill interventions on locomotor development in children with delayed ambulation or in pre‐ambulatory children (or both), who are under six years of age and who are at risk for neuromotor delay. 
Search methods
In May 2017, we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, six other databases and a number of trials registers. We also searched the reference lists of relevant studies and systematic reviews. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs that evaluated the effect of treadmill intervention in the target population. 
Data collection and analysis
Four authors independently extracted the data. Outcome parameters were structured according to the International Classification of Functioning, Disability and Health model. 
Main results
This is an update of a Cochrane review from 2011, which included five trials. This update includes seven studies on treadmill intervention in 175 children: 104 were allocated to treadmill groups, and 71 were controls. The studies varied in population (children with Down syndrome, cerebral palsy, developmental delay or at moderate risk for neuromotor delay); comparison type (treadmill versus no treadmill; treadmill with versus without orthoses; high‐ versus low‐intensity training); study duration, and assessed outcomes. Due to the diversity of the studies, only data from five studies were used in meta‐analyses for five outcomes: age of independent walking onset, overall gross motor function, gross motor function related to standing and walking, and gait velocity. GRADE assessments of quality of the evidence ranged from high to very low. 
