Background
Ventilator‐associated pneumonia (VAP) is one of the most common nosocomial infections in intubated and mechanically ventilated patients. Endotracheal tubes (ETTs) appear to be an independent risk factor for VAP. Silver‐coated ETTs slowly release silver cations. It is these silver ions that appear to have a strong antimicrobial effect. Because of this antimicrobial effect of silver, silver‐coated ETTs could be an effective intervention to prevent VAP in people who require mechanical ventilation for 24 hours or longer. 
Objectives
Our primary objective was to investigate whether silver‐coated ETTs are effective in reducing the risk of VAP and hospital mortality in comparison with standard non‐coated ETTs in people who require mechanical ventilation for 24 hours or longer. Our secondary objective was to ascertain whether silver‐coated ETTs are effective in reducing the following clinical outcomes: device‐related adverse events, duration of intubation, length of hospital and intensive care unit (ICU) stay, costs, and time to VAP onset. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2014 Issue 10, MEDLINE, EMBASE, EBSCO CINAHL, and reference lists of trials. We contacted corresponding authors for additional information and unpublished studies. We did not impose any restrictions on the basis of date of publication or language. The date of the last search was October 2014. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomized trials that evaluated the effects of silver‐coated ETTs or a combination of silver with any antimicrobial‐coated ETTs with standard non‐coated ETTs or with other antimicrobial‐coated ETTs in critically ill people who required mechanical ventilation for 24 hours or longer. We also included studies that evaluated the cost‐effectiveness of silver‐coated ETTs or a combination of silver with any antimicrobial‐coated ETTs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (GT, HV) independently extracted the data and summarized study details from all included studies using the specially designed data extraction form. We used standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration. We performed meta‐analysis for outcomes when possible. 
