Background
Various pharmacologic and non‐pharmacologic interventions have been used to suppress lactation after childbirth and relieve associated symptoms. Despite the large volume of literature on the subject, there is currently no universal guideline on the most appropriate approach for suppressing lactation in postpartum women. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of interventions used for suppression of lactation in postpartum women (who have not breastfed or expressed breastmilk) to determine which approach has the greatest comparative benefits with least risk. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 June 2012). 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials evaluating the effectiveness of treatments used for suppression of postpartum lactation. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
Main results
We included 62 trials (6428 women). Twenty‐two trials did not contribute data to the meta‐analyses. The trials were generally small and of limited quality. Three trials (107 women) indicated that bromocriptine significantly reduced the proportion of women lactating compared with no treatment at or within seven days postpartum (three trials, 107 women; risk ratio (RR) 0.36, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.24 to 0.54). Seven trials involving oestrogen preparations (diethylstilbestrol, quinestrol, chlorotrianisene, hexestrol) suggested that they significantly reduced the proportion of lactating women compared with no treatment at or within seven days postpartum (RR 0.40, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.56). We found no trials comparing non‐pharmacologic methods with no treatment. Trials comparing bromocriptine with other pharmacologic agents such as methergoline, prostaglandins, pyridoxine, carbegoline, diethylstilbestrol and cyclofenil suggested similarity in their effectiveness. Side effects were poorly reported in the trials and no case of thromboembolism was recorded in the four trials that reported it as an outcome. 
