Background
Acute otitis media (AOM), or acute middle ear infection, is one of the most frequently occurring childhood diseases, and the most common reason given for prescribing antibiotics in this age group. Guidelines often recommend antibiotics as first‐line treatment for severe AOM. However, antibiotics also lead to antibiotic resistance, so preventing episodes of AOM is an urgent priority. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of probiotics to prevent the occurrence and reduce the severity of acute otitis media in children. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase, and three other databases (October 2018), two trial registers (October 2018), and conducted a backwards and forwards citation analysis (August 2018). We did not apply any language, publication date, or publication status restrictions. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of children (aged up to 18 years), comparing probiotics with placebo, usual care, or no probiotic. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the eligibility of trials for inclusion and risk of bias of the included trials, and extracted data using pre‐piloted data extraction forms. We analysed dichotomous data as either risk ratio (RR) or odds ratios (OR) and continuous data as mean differences (MD). 
Main results
We included 17 RCTs involving 3488 children, of which 16 RCTs were included in the meta‐analyses. Of the 16 RCTs that reported the mean age of children, mean age overall was 2.4 years; in 4 RCTs the mean age of children participating in the trial was less than 1 year old; in 2 RCTs the mean age was between 1 and 2 years old; and in 10 RCTs the mean age was older than 2 years. Probiotic strains evaluated by the trials varied, with 11 of the included RCTs evaluating Lactobacillus‐containing probiotics, and six RCTs evaluating Streptococcus‐containing probiotics. 
The proportion of children (i.e. the number of children in each group) experiencing one or more episodes of AOM during the treatment was lower for those taking probiotics (RR 0.77, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.63 to 0.93; 16 trials; 2961 participants; number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) = 10; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
Post hoc subgroup analysis found that among children not prone to otitis media, a lower proportion of children receiving probiotics experienced AOM (RR 0.64, 95% CI 0.49 to 0.84; 11 trials; 2227 participants; NNTB = 9; moderate‐certainty evidence). However, among children who were otitis prone, there was no difference between probiotic and comparator groups (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.85 to 1.11; 5 trials; 734 participants; high‐certainty evidence). The test for subgroup differences was significant (P = 0.007). 
