Background
Fibroids are common benign tumours arising in the uterus. Myomectomy is the surgical treatment of choice for women with symptomatic fibroids who prefer or want uterine conservation. Myomectomy can be performed by conventional laparotomy, by mini‐laparotomy or by minimal access techniques such as hysteroscopy and laparoscopy. 
Objectives
To determine the benefits and harms of laparoscopic or hysteroscopic myomectomy compared with open myomectomy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (inception to July 2014), the Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group (MDSG) Specialised Register of Controlled Trials (inception to July 2014), MEDLINE(R) (inception to July 2014), EMBASE (inception to July 2014), PsycINFO (inception to July 2014) and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (inception to July 2014) to identify relevant randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also searched trial registers and references from selected relevant trials and review articles. We applied no language restriction in these searches. 
Selection criteria
All published and unpublished randomised controlled trials comparing myomectomy via laparotomy, mini‐laparotomy or laparoscopically assisted mini‐laparotomy versus laparoscopy or hysteroscopy in premenopausal women with uterine fibroids diagnosed by clinical and ultrasound examination were included in the meta‐analysis. 
Data collection and analysis
We conducted study selection and extracted data in duplicate. Primary outcomes were postoperative pain, reported in six studies, and in‐hospital adverse events, reported in eight studies. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay, reported in four studies, operating time, reported in eight studies and recurrence of fibroids, reported in three studies. Each of the other secondary outcomes—improvement in menstrual symptoms, change in quality of life, repeat myomectomy and hysterectomy at a later date—was reported in a single study. Odds ratios (ORs), mean differences (MDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) were calculated and data combined using the fixed‐effect model. The quality of evidence was assessed using Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) methods. 
Main results
We found 23 potentially relevant trials, of which nine were eligible for inclusion in this review. The nine trials included in our meta‐analysis had a total of 808 women. The overall risk of bias of included studies was low, as most studies properly reported their methods. 
