Background
From the societal and employers' perspectives, sickness absence has a large economic impact. Internationally, there is variation in sickness certification practices. However, in most countries a physician's certificate of illness or reduced work ability is needed at some point of sickness absence. In many countries, there is a time period of varying length called the 'self‐certification period' at the beginning of sickness absence. During that time a worker is not obliged to provide his or her employer a medical certificate and it is usually enough that the employee notifies his or her supervisor when taken ill. Self‐certification can be introduced at organisational, regional, or national level. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of introducing, abolishing, or changing the period of self‐certification of sickness absence on: the total or average duration (number of sickness absence days) of short‐term sickness absence periods; the frequency of short‐term sickness absence periods; the associated costs (of sickness absence and (occupational) health care); and social climate, supervisor involvement, and workload or presenteeism (see Figure 1). 
Search methods
We conducted a systematic literature search to identify all potentially eligible published and unpublished studies. We adapted the search strategy developed for MEDLINE for use in the other electronic databases. We also searched for unpublished trials on ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP). We used Google Scholar for exploratory searches. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs), controlled before‐after (CBA) studies, and interrupted time‐series (ITS) studies for inclusion. We included studies carried out with individual employees or insured workers. We also included studies in which participants were addressed at the aggregate level of organisations, companies, municipalities, healthcare settings, or general populations. We included studies evaluating the effects of introducing, abolishing, or changing the period of self‐certification of sickness absence. 
Data collection and analysis
We conducted a systematic literature search up to 14 June 2018. We calculated missing data from other data reported by the authors. We intended to perform a random‐effects meta‐analysis, but the studies were too different to enable meta‐analysis. 
Main results
We screened 6091 records for inclusion. Five studies fulfilled our inclusion criteria: one is an RCT and four are CBA studies. One study from Sweden changed the period of self‐certification in 1985 in two districts for all insured inhabitants. Three studies from Norway conducted between 2001 and 2014 changed the period of self‐certification in municipalities for all or part of the workers. One study from 1969 introduced self‐certification for all manual workers of an oil refinery in the UK. 
Longer compared to shorter self‐certificationfor reducing sickness absence in workers 
Outcome: average duration of sickness absence periods 
Extending the period of self‐certification from one week to two weeks produced a higher mean duration of sickness absence periods: mean difference in change values between the intervention and control group (MDchange) was 0.67 days/period up to 29 days (95% confidence interval (95% CI) 0.55 to 0.79; 1 RCT; low‐certainty evidence). 
The introduction of self‐certification for a maximum of three days produced a lower mean duration of sickness absence up to three days (MDchange −0.32 days/period, 95% CI −0.39 to −0.25; 1 CBA study; very low‐certainty evidence). The authors of a different study reported that prolonging self‐certification from ≤ 3 days to ≤ 365 days did not lead to a change, but they did not provide numerical data (very low‐certainty evidence). 
Outcome: number of sickness absence periods per worker 
Extending the period of self‐certification from one week to two weeks resulted in no difference in the number of sickness absence periods in one RCT, but the authors did not report numerical data (low‐certainty evidence). 
