Background
Congenital or early‐acquired hearing impairment poses a major barrier to the development of spoken language and communication. Early detection and effective (re)habilitative interventions are essential for parents and families who wish their children to achieve age‐appropriate spoken language. Auditory‐verbal therapy (AVT) is a (re)habilitative approach aimed at children with hearing impairments. AVT comprises intensive early intervention therapy sessions with a focus on audition, technological management and involvement of the child's caregivers in therapy sessions; it is typically the only therapy approach used to specifically promote avoidance or exclusion of non‐auditory facial communication. The primary goal of AVT is to achieve age‐appropriate spoken language and for this to be used as the primary or sole method of communication. AVT programmes are expanding throughout the world; however, little evidence can be found on the effectiveness of the intervention. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of auditory‐verbal therapy (AVT) in developing receptive and expressive spoken language in children who are hearing impaired. 
Search methods
CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, speechBITE and eight other databases were searched in March 2013. We also searched two trials registers and three theses repositories, checked reference lists and contacted study authors to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
The review considered prospective randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised studies of children (birth to 18 years) with a significant (≥ 40 dBHL) permanent (congenital or early‐acquired) hearing impairment, undergoing a programme of auditory‐verbal therapy, administered by a certified auditory‐verbal therapist for a period of at least six months. Comparison groups considered for inclusion were waiting list and treatment as usual controls. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed titles and abstracts identified from the searches and obtained full‐text versions of all potentially relevant articles. Articles were independently assessed by two review authors for design and risk of bias. In addition to outcome data, a range of variables related to participant groups and outcomes were documented. 
