Background
Sevoflurane induction for general anaesthesia has been reported to be safe, reliable and well accepted by patients. Sevoflurane induction uses either low or high initial concentrations. The low initial concentration technique involves initially administering a low concentration of sevoflurane and gradually increasing the concentration of the dose until the patient is anaesthetized. The high initial concentration technique involves administering high concentrations from the beginning, then continuing with those high doses until the patient is anaesthetized. This review was originally published in 2013 and has been updated in 2016. 
Objectives
We aimed to compare induction times and complication rates between high and low initial concentration sevoflurane anaesthetic induction techniques in adults and children who received inhalational induction for general anaesthesia. We defined 'high' as greater than or equal to and 'low' as less than a 4% initial concentration. 
Search methods
For the updated review, we searched the following databases: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1950 to February 2016), EMBASE (1980 to February 2016), Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (1982 to February 2016) and the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Science (1946 to February 2016). We also searched the reference lists of relevant articles and conference proceedings and contacted the authors of included trials. The original search was run in September 2011. 
Selection criteria
We sought all published and unpublished, randomized controlled trials comparing high versus low initial sevoflurane concentration inhalational induction. Our primary outcomes included two measures of anaesthesia (time to loss of the eyelash reflex (LOER) and time until a weighted object held in the patient's hand was dropped), time to successful insertion of a laryngeal mask airway (LMA) and time to endotracheal intubation. Other outcomes were complications of the technique. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standardized methods for conducting a systematic review as described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. Two review authors independently extracted details of trial methods and outcome data from reports of all trials considered eligible for inclusion. We conducted all analyses on an intention‐to‐treat basis, when possible. We estimated overall treatment effects by using a fixed‐effect model when we found no substantial heterogeneity, whereas we applied the random‐effects model in the presence of considerable heterogeneity. 
