Background
The increased birth rate of twins during recent decades and the improved prognosis of preterm infants have resulted in the need to explore measures that could optimize their growth and neurodevelopmental outcomes. It has been postulated that co‐bedding simulates twins' intrauterine experiences in which co‐regulatory behaviors between them are observed. These behaviors are proposed to benefit twins by reducing their stress, which may promote growth and development. However, in practice, uncertainty surrounds the benefit‐risk profile of co‐bedding. 
Objectives
We aimed to assess the effectiveness of co‐bedding compared with separate (individual) care for stable preterm twins in the neonatal nursery in promoting growth and neurodevelopment and reducing short‐ and long‐term morbidities, and to determine whether co‐bedding is associated with significant adverse effects. 
As secondary objectives, we sought to evaluate effects of co‐bedding via the following subgroup analyses: twin pairs with different weight ranges (very low birth weight [VLBW] < 1500 grams vs non‐VLBW), twins with versus without significant growth discordance at birth, preterm versus borderline preterm twins, twins co‐bedded in incubator versus cot at study entry, and twins randomized by twin pair versus neonatal unit. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group (CNRG). We used keywords and medical subject headings (MeSH) to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2), MEDLINE (via PubMed), EMBASE (hosted by EBSCOHOST), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), and references cited in our short‐listed articles, up to February 29, 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials with randomization by twin pair and/or by neonatal unit. We excluded cross‐over studies. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data using standard methods of the CNRG. Two review authors independently assessed the relevance and risk of bias of retrieved records. We contacted the authors of included studies to request important information missing from their published papers. We expressed our results using risk ratios (RRs) and mean differences (MDs) when appropriate, along with 95% confidence intervals (95% CIs). We adjusted the unit of analysis from individual infants to twin pairs by averaging measurements for each twin pair (continuous outcomes) or by counting outcomes as positive if developed by either twin (dichotomous outcomes). 
