Background
Sexual health promotion is a major public health challenge; there is huge potential for health promotion via technology such as the Internet. 
Objectives
To determine effects of interactive computer‐based interventions (ICBI) for sexual health promotion, considering cognitive, behavioural, biological and economic outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched more than thirty databases for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on ICBI and sexual health, including CENTRAL, DARE, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, British Nursing Index, and PsycINFO. We also searched reference lists of published studies and contacted authors. All databases were searched from start date to November 2007, with no language restriction. 
Selection criteria
RCTs of interactive computer‐based interventions for sexual health promotion, involving participants of any age, gender, sexual orientation, ethnicity or nationality. 'Interactive' was defined as packages that require contributions from users to produce tailored material and feedback that is personally relevant. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened abstracts, applied eligibility and quality criteria and extracted data. Results of RCTs were pooled using a random‐effects model with standardised mean differences (SMDs) for continuous outcomes and odds ratios (ORs) for binary outcomes. We assessed heterogeneity using the I2 statistic. Separate meta‐analyses were conducted by type of comparator: 1) minimal intervention such as usual practice or leaflet, 2) face‐to‐face intervention or 3) a different design of ICBI; and by type of outcome (cognitive, behavioural, biological outcomes). 
Main results
We identified 15 RCTs of ICBI conducted in various settings and populations (3917 participants). Comparing ICBI to 'minimal interventions' such as usual practice, meta‐analyses showed statistically significant effects as follows: moderate effect on sexual health knowledge (SMD 0.72, 95% CI 0.27 to 1.18); small effect on safer sex self‐efficacy (SMD 0.17, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.29); small effect on safer‐sex intentions (SMD 0.16, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.30); and also an effect on sexual behaviour (OR 1.75, 95% CI 1.18 to 2.59). Data were insufficient for meta‐analysis of biological outcomes and analysis of cost‐effectiveness. 
