Background
IBS is a complex disorder that encompasses a wide profile of symptoms. The symptoms of chronic constipation frequently resemble those of constipation‐predominant IBS. Current drug treatments for irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) are of limited value. Many target specific symptoms only. Tegaserod, a 5HT4 partial agonist, represents a novel mechanism of action in the treatment of IBS and chronic constipation. 
Objectives
The objective of this review was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of tegaserod for the treatment of IBS and chronic constipation in adults and adolescents aged 12 years and above. 
Search methods
MEDLINE 1966‐December 2006 and EMBASE 1980 to December 2006 were searched. The text and key words used included "tegaserod", "HTF 919", "irritable bowel", "constipation" and "colonic diseases, functional". The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and the Inflammatory Bowel Disease Review Group Specialized Trials Register were also searched. Searches stopped on 15th December 2006. Relevant articles were retrieved, and their reference lists were also reviewed. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing tegaserod with placebo, no treatment or any other intervention (pharmacological or non‐pharmacological) in subjects aged 12 years and above with a diagnosis of IBS or chronic constipation, focusing on clinical endpoints were considered for review. 
Data collection and analysis
Study inclusion and exclusion, data extraction and quality assessment was undertaken by two authors independently. Meta‐analysis was performed where study populations, designs, outcomes, and statistical reporting allowed combination of data in a valid way, using the summary statistics relative risk for dichotomous data and weighted mean difference for continuous data, both with 95% CI. Thirteen short‐term placebo‐controlled studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria. These were predominantly conducted in women. Ten studies evaluated the efficacy of tegaserod on global gastrointestinal (GI) symptoms in patients with constipation‐predominant IBS (C‐IBS). One small study evaluated safety in patients with diarrhoea‐predominant IBS. Two studies evaluated the effectiveness of tegaserod for the treatment of chronic constipation. 
