Background
COVID‐19 illness is highly variable, ranging from infection with no symptoms through to pneumonia and life‐threatening consequences. Symptoms such as fever, cough, or loss of sense of smell (anosmia) or taste (ageusia), can help flag early on if the disease is present. Such information could be used either to rule out COVID‐19 disease, or to identify people who need to go for COVID‐19 diagnostic tests. This is the second update of this review, which was first published in 2020. 
Objectives
To assess the diagnostic accuracy of signs and symptoms to determine if a person presenting in primary care or to hospital outpatient settings, such as the emergency department or dedicated COVID‐19 clinics, has COVID‐19. 
Search methods
We undertook electronic searches up to 10 June 2021 in the University of Bern living search database. In addition, we checked repositories of COVID‐19 publications. We used artificial intelligence text analysis to conduct an initial classification of documents. We did not apply any language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
Studies were eligible if they included people with clinically suspected COVID‐19, or recruited known cases with COVID‐19 and also controls without COVID‐19 from a single‐gate cohort. Studies were eligible when they recruited people presenting to primary care or hospital outpatient settings. Studies that included people who contracted SARS‐CoV‐2 infection while admitted to hospital were not eligible. The minimum eligible sample size of studies was 10 participants. All signs and symptoms were eligible for this review, including individual signs and symptoms or combinations. We accepted a range of reference standards. 
Data collection and analysis
Pairs of review authors independently selected all studies, at both title and abstract, and full‐text stage. They resolved any disagreements by discussion with a third review author. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias using the QUADAS‐2 checklist, and resolved disagreements by discussion with a third review author. Analyses were restricted to prospective studies only. We presented sensitivity and specificity in paired forest plots, in receiver operating characteristic (ROC) space and in dumbbell plots. We estimated summary parameters using a bivariate random‐effects meta‐analysis whenever five or more primary prospective studies were available, and whenever heterogeneity across studies was deemed acceptable. 
