Background
Heparin as an adjunct in assisted reproduction (peri‐implantation heparin) is given at or after egg collection or at embryo transfer. Heparin has been advocated to improve embryo implantation and clinical outcomes.  It is proposed that heparin may enhance the intra‐uterine environment by improving decidualisation with an associated activation of growth factors and a cytokine expression profile in the endometrium that is favourable to pregnancy. 
Objectives
To investigate whether the administration of heparin around the time of implantation (peri‐implantation heparin) improves clinical outcomes in subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction. 
Search methods
A comprehensive and exhaustive search strategy was developed in consultation with the Trials Search Co‐ordinator of the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group (MDSG). The strategy was used in an attempt to identify all relevant studies regardless of language or publication status (published, unpublished, in press, and in progress). Relevant trials were identified from both electronic databases and other resources (last search 6 May 2013). 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were included where peri‐implantation heparin was given during assisted reproduction. Live birth rate was the primary outcome. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the eligibility and quality of trials and extracted relevant data. The quality of the evidence was evaluated using GRADE methods. 
Main results
Three RCTs (involving 386 women) were included in the review. Peri‐implantation low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) during IVF/ICSI was given at or after egg collection or at embryo transfer in these studies. The characteristics of the participants differed across studies. One included women having their first IVF cycle, with no blood clotting disorder; another included women with at least one blood clotting disorder and the third included women who had undergone at least two previous unsuccessful ART cycles. 
