Background
The goal of fetal monitoring in labour is the early detection of a hypoxic baby. There are a variety of tools and methods available for intermittent auscultation (IA) of the fetal heart rate (FHR). Low‐ and middle‐income countries usually have only access to a Pinard/Laënnec or the use of a hand‐held Doppler device. Currently, there is no robust evidence to guide clinical practice on the most effective IA tool to use, timing intervals and length of listening to the fetal heart for women during established labour. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of different tools for IA of the fetal heart rate during labour including frequency and duration of auscultation. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (19 September 2016), contacted experts and searched reference lists of retrieved articles. 
Selection criteria
All published and unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or cluster‐RCTs comparing different tools and methods used for intermittent fetal auscultation during labour for fetal and maternal well‐being. Quasi‐RCTs, and cross‐over designs were not eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
All review authors independently assessed eligibility, extracted data and assessed risk of bias for each trial. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included three studies (6241 women and 6241 babies), but only two studies are included in the meta‐analyses (3242 women and 3242 babies). Both were judged as high risk for performance bias due to the inability to blind the participants and healthcare providers to the interventions. Evidence was graded as moderate to very low quality; the main reasons for downgrading were study design limitations and imprecision of effect estimates. 
Intermittent Electronic Fetal Monitoring (EFM) using Cardiotocography (CTG) with routine Pinard (one trial) 
There was no clear difference between groups in low Apgar scores at five minutes (reported as < six at five minutes after birth) (risk ratio (RR) 0.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.24 to 1.83, 633 babies, very low‐quality evidence). There were no clear differences for perinatal mortality (RR 0.88, 95% CI 0.34 to 2.25; 633 infants, very low‐quality evidence). Neonatal seizures were reduced in the EFM group (RR 0.05, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.89; 633 infants, very low‐quality evidence). Other important infant outcomes were not reported: mortality or serious morbidity (composite outcome), cerebral palsy or neurosensory disability. For maternal outcomes, women allocated to intermittent electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) (CTG) had higher rates of caesarean section for fetal distress (RR 2.92, 95% CI 1.78 to 4.80, 633 women, moderate‐quality evidence) compared with women allocated to routine Pinard. There was no clear difference between groups in instrumental vaginal births (RR 1.46, 95% CI 0.86 to 2.49, low‐quality evidence). Other outcomes were not reported (maternal mortality, instrumental vaginal birth for fetal distress and or acidosis, analgesia in labour, mobility or restriction during labour, and postnatal depression). 
