Background
Long‐term physical conditions affect 10% to 12% of children and adolescents worldwide. These individuals are at greater risk of developing psychological problems, particularly anxiety and depression, sometimes directly related to their illness or medical care (e.g. health‐related anxiety). There is limited evidence regarding the effectiveness of psychological therapies for treating anxiety and depression in this population. Therapies designed for children and adolescents without medical issues may or may not be appropriate for use with those who have long‐term physical conditions. 
Objectives
This review was undertaken to assess the effectiveness and acceptability of psychological therapies in comparison with controls (treatment‐as‐usual, waiting list, attention placebo, psychological placebo, or non‐psychological treatment) for treating anxiety and depression in children and adolescents with long‐term physical conditions. 
Search methods
We searched Ovid MEDLINE (1950‐ ), Embase (1974‐ ), PsycINFO (1967‐ ) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) to 27 September 2018. An earlier search of these databases was conducted via the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders Controlled Trial Register (CCMD‐CTR) (all years to May 2016). In addition, we searched the Web of Science (Core Collection) (12 October 2018) and conducted a cited reference search for reports of all included trials. We handsearched relevant conference proceedings, reference lists of included articles, and grey literature. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster‐randomised trials and cross‐over trials of psychological therapies for treating anxiety or depression in children with long‐term physical conditions were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Abstracts and complete articles were independently reviewed by two authors. Discrepancies were addressed by a third author. Odds ratio (OR) was used for comparing dichotomous data and standardised mean differences (SMD) for comparing continuous data. Meta‐analysis was undertaken when treatments, participants, and the underlying clinical question were similar. Otherwise, narrative analysis of data was undertaken. 
