Background
As a retained placenta is a potential life‐threatening obstetrical complication, effective and timely management is important. The estimated mortality rates from a retained placenta in developing countries range from 3% to 9%. One possible factor contributing to the high mortality rates is a delay in initiating manual removal of the placenta. Effective anaesthesia or analgesia during this procedure will provide adequate uterine relaxation and pain control, enabling it to be carried out effectively. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of general, regional, and local anaesthesia or analgesia during manual removal of a retained placenta. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform to 30 September 2019, and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We sought randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐randomised controlled trials, and cluster‐randomised trials that compared different methods of preoperative or intraoperative anaesthetic or analgesic, administered during the manual removal of a retained placenta. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the study reports for inclusion, and risk of bias, extracted data and checked them for accuracy. We followed standard Cochrane methodology. 
Main results
We identified only one randomised controlled trial (N = 30 women) that evaluated the effect of paracervical block on women undergoing manual removal of a retained placenta compared with intravenous pethidine and diazepam. The study was conducted in a hospital in Papua New Guinea. The study was at high risk of bias of performance bias and detection bias, low risk of attrition bias, and an unclear risk of selection bias, reporting bias, and other bias. 
The included study did not measure this review's primary outcomes of pain intensity and adverse events. 
The study reported that there were no women, in either group, who experienced an estimated postpartum blood loss of more than 500 mL. 
