Background
Plasmodium vivax infections are an important contributor to the malaria burden worldwide. The World Health Organization recommends a 14‐day course of primaquine (0.25 mg/kg/day, giving an adult dose of 15 mg/day) to eradicate the liver stage of the parasite and prevent relapse of the disease. Many people find a 14‐day primaquine regimen difficult to complete, and there is a potential risk of haemolytic anaemia in people with glucose‐6‐phosphate‐dehydrogenase enzyme (G6PD) deficiency. This review evaluates primaquine in P. vivax, particularly alternatives to the standard 14‐day course. 
Objectives
To compare alternative primaquine regimens to the recommended 14‐day regimen for preventing relapses (radical cure) in people with P. vivax malaria treated for blood stage infection with chloroquine. We also summarize trials comparing primaquine to no primaquine that led to the recommendation for the 14‐day regimen. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group's Specialized Register, CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS up to 8 October 2013. We checked conference proceedings, trial registries and reference lists and contacted researchers and pharmaceutical companies for eligible studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs comparing various primaquine dosing regimens with the standard primaquine regimen (15 mg/day for 14 days), or with no primaquine, in people with vivax malaria treated for blood stage infection with chloroquine. 
Data collection and analysis
We independently assessed trial eligibility, trial quality, and extracted data. We calculated risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous data, and used the random‐effects model in meta‐analyses if there was significant heterogeneity. We assessed the overall quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 15 trials (two cluster‐RCTs) of 4377 adult and child participants. Most trials excluded people with G6PD deficiency. Trials compared various regimens of primaquine with the standard primaquine regimen, or with placebo or no treatment. All trials treated blood stage infection with chloroquine. 
Alternative primaquine regimens compared to 14‐day primaquine 
Relapse rates were higher over six months with the five‐day primaquine regimen than the standard 14‐day regimen (RR 10.05, 95% CI 2.82 to 35.86; two trials, 186 participants, moderate quality evidence). Similarly, relapse over six months was higher with three days of primaquine than the standard 14‐day regimen (RR 3.18, 95% CI 2.1 to 4.81; two trials, 262 participants, moderate quality evidence; six months follow‐up); and with primaquine for seven days followed up over two months, compared to 14‐day primaquine (RR 2.24, 95% CI 1.24 to 4.03; one trial, 126 participants, low quality evidence). 
