Background
Post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS) is a long‐term complication of deep vein thrombosis (DVT) characterised by chronic complaints such as oedema and skin changes including; venous ectasia, varicose veins, redness, eczema, hyperpigmentation, and in severe cases fibrosis of the subcutaneous adipose in the affected limb. These chronic complaints are the effects of venous outflow restriction that can cause symptoms such as heaviness, itching, pain, cramps, and paraesthesia. Twenty to fifty percent of people with DVT develop post‐thrombotic complications. Several non‐pharmaceutical measures are used for prevention of PTS during the acute phase of DVT. These include elevation of the legs and compression therapy. There have been limited studies regarding the effectiveness of compression therapy for prevention or treatment of PTS. As a result, clinicians and guidelines differ in their assessment of compression therapy during treatment of DVT and in the treatment of PTS. This is an update of a review first published in 2003. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of compression therapy for treatment of post‐thrombotic syndrome, including elastic compression stockings and mechanical devices compared with no intervention, placebo and with each other. 
Search methods
For this update, the Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL databases and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registries on 2 July 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included trials that evaluated compression therapy for the treatment of PTS. The primary outcomes were severity of PTS and adverse effects. There were no restrictions on date or language. Two review authors (SA, DNK) independently assessed whether potentially relevant studies met the inclusion criteria. 
Data collection and analysis
One review author extracted and summarised data and one review author (DNK) verified them. We resolved disagreements by discussion. We assessed methodological study quality with the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. We used GRADE to assess the overall certainty of the evidence supporting the outcomes assessed in this review. 
