Background
Vascular dementia represents the second most common type of dementia after that caused by Alzheimer's disease. Particularly in older patients, the combination of vascular dementia and Alzheimer's disease is common and is referred to as mixed dementia. The classification of vascular dementia broadly follows three clinico‐pathological processes: multi‐infarct dementia, single strategic infarct dementia and subcortical dementia. Not all patients fulfil strict criteria for dementia and may be significantly cognitively impaired without memory loss and the term vascular cognitive impairment is more useful. Currently, no established standard treatment for vascular cognitive impairment exists. Reductions in acetylcholine and acetyltransferase activity are common to both Alzheimer's disease and vascular cognitive impairment raising the possibility that cholinesterase inhibitors such as galantamine may be beneficial for the latter. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of galantamine in the treatment of people with vascular cognitive impairment or vascular dementia or mixed dementia. 
Search methods
The trials were identified from a search of ALOIS: the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group’s Specialized Register on 12 January 2013. The register contains information on trials identified from frequent searches of a number of major healthcare and medical databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL and LILACS) as well as from a number of international and national trial registries and grey literature sources. The terms used were: galantamine, galanthamine, Reminyl, Razadyne, Nivalin. 
Selection criteria
All unconfounded randomised double‐blind trials comparing galantamine with placebo were eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted the data from included studies.
Main results
Two trials, 1378 participants, employing randomised, double‐blind, parallel‐group methodology were included. Both trials were of six months duration and were testing a galantamine dose of 16‐24 mg/day in two divided doses. Both trials had an overall low risk of bias. 
