Background
There are a number of ways of monitoring blood glucose in women with diabetes during pregnancy, with self‐monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) recommended as a key component of the management plan. No existing systematic reviews consider the benefits/effectiveness of different techniques of blood glucose monitoring on maternal and infant outcomes among pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes. The effectiveness of the various monitoring techniques is unclear. This review is an update of a review that was first published in 2014 and subsequently updated in 2017. 
Objectives
To compare techniques of blood glucose monitoring and their impact on maternal and infant outcomes among pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (1 November 2018), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs comparing techniques of blood glucose monitoring including SMBG, continuous glucose monitoring (CGM), automated telemedicine monitoring or clinic monitoring among pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes mellitus (type 1 or type 2). Trials investigating timing and frequency of monitoring were also eligible for inclusion. RCTs using a cluster‐randomised design were eligible for inclusion but none were identified. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study eligibility, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of included studies. Data were checked for accuracy. The quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
This review update includes a total of 12 trials (944) women (type 1 diabetes: 660 women; type 2 diabetes: 113 women; type 1 or type 2 (unspecified): 171 women. The trials took place in Europe, the USA and Canada. Three of the 12 included studies are at low risk of bias, eight studies are at moderate risk of bias, and one study is at high risk of bias. Four trials reported that they were provided with the continuous glucose monitors free of charge or at a reduced cost by the manufacturer. 
