Background
Radial head fracture is the most common fracture of the elbow. It usually results from a fall onto an outstretched arm. In 1954, Mason classified these fractures into type 1 (undisplaced), type 2 (simple displaced), and type 3 (comminuted fractures). Aspiration of the elbow joint aims to relieve pressure in the elbow joint and has been used as an initial treatment option for radial head fractures. However, it is an invasive technique with the potential for complications such as infection and injury to nerves and vessels. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of elbow joint aspiration for treating radial head fracture in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (14 April 2014), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (14 April 2014), MEDLINE (1946 to April Week 1 2014) and EMBASE (1980 to 2014 Week 15), trial registries, bibliographies and conference proceedings. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled clinical trials comparing aspiration versus no aspiration for treating radial head fractures in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected articles, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. Disagreements were resolved by discussion. Where appropriate, we pooled results of comparable studies using fixed‐effect meta‐analysis. 
Main results
We included two trials that involved 126 participants but provided results for only 108 participants. Most participants were adults, typically over 30 years of age. Both trials were at high risk of selection, performance, detection and reporting bias. Reflecting this high risk of bias, we downgraded the quality of evidence two levels for study limitations and a further level for imprecision. Thus we judged the evidence for all outcomes to be 'very low' quality, meaning that we are very uncertain about these estimates. 
One trial included participants with Mason type 1, 2 or 3 radial head fractures and also a few cases of traumatic elbow hemarthrosis without fracture. The other trial included participants with Mason type 1 and 2 fractures. All participants were managed non‐surgically. 
