Background
Infectious keratitis is an infection of the cornea that can be caused by bacteria, viruses, fungi, protozoa, or parasites. It may be associated with ocular surgery, trauma, contact lens wear, or conditions that cause deficiency or loss of corneal sensation, or suppression of the immune system, such as diabetes, chronic use of topical steroids, or immunomodulatory therapies. Photoactivated chromophore for collagen cross‐linking (PACK‐CXL) of the cornea is a therapy that has been successful in treating eye conditions such as keratoconus and corneal ectasia. More recently, PACK‐CXL has been explored as a treatment option for infectious keratitis. 
Objectives
To determine the comparative effectiveness and safety of PACK‐CXL with standard therapy versus standard therapy alone for the treatment of bacterial keratitis. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register) (2019, Issue 7); Ovid MEDLINE; Embase.com; PubMed; Latin American and Caribbean Health Science Information database (LILACS); ClinicalTrials.gov; and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic search for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 8 July 2019. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs, and controlled clinical trials (CCTs) of PACK‐CXL for bacterial keratitis. We included quasi‐RCTs and CCTs as we anticipated that there would not be many RCTs eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors working independently selected studies for inclusion in the review, assessed trials for risk of bias, and extracted data. The primary outcome was proportion of participants with complete healing at four to eight weeks. Secondary outcomes included visual acuity, morphology, adverse events, and treatment failure at four to eight weeks. 
