Background
Health professionals sometimes do not use the best evidence to treat their patients, in part due to unconscious acts of omission and information overload. Reminders help clinicians overcome these problems by prompting them to recall information that they already know, or by presenting information in a different and more accessible format. Manually‐generated reminders delivered on paper are defined as information given to the health professional with each patient or encounter, provided on paper, in which no computer is involved in the production or delivery of the reminder. Manually‐generated reminders delivered on paper are relatively cheap interventions, and are especially relevant in settings where electronic clinical records are not widely available and affordable. This review is one of three Cochrane Reviews focused on the effectiveness of reminders in health care. 
Objectives
1. To determine the effectiveness of manually‐generated reminders delivered on paper in changing professional practice and improving patient outcomes. 2. To explore whether a number of potential effect modifiers influence the effectiveness of manually‐generated reminders delivered on paper. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and two trials registers on 5 December 2018. We searched grey literature, screened individual journals, conference proceedings and relevant systematic reviews, and reviewed reference lists and cited references of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and non‐randomised trials assessing the impact of manually‐generated reminders delivered on paper as a single intervention (compared with usual care) or added to one or more co‐interventions as a multicomponent intervention (compared with the co‐intervention(s) without the reminder component) on professional practice or patients' outcomes. We also included randomised and non‐randomised trials comparing manually‐generated reminders with other quality improvement (QI) interventions. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened studies for eligibility and abstracted data independently. We extracted the primary outcome as defined by the authors or calculated the median effect size across all reported outcomes in each study. We then calculated the median percentage improvement and interquartile range across the included studies that reported improvement related outcomes, and assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We identified 63 studies (41 cluster‐randomised trials, 18 individual randomised trials, and four non‐randomised trials) that met all inclusion criteria. Fifty‐seven studies reported usable data (64 comparisons). The studies were mainly located in North America (42 studies) and the UK (eight studies). Fifty‐four studies took place in outpatient/ambulatory settings. The clinical areas most commonly targeted were cardiovascular disease management (11 studies), cancer screening (10 studies) and preventive care (10 studies), and most studies had physicians as their target population (57 studies). General management of a clinical condition (17 studies), test‐ordering (14 studies) and prescription (10 studies) were the behaviours more commonly targeted by the intervention. 
Forty‐eight studies reported changes in professional practice measured as dichotomous process adherence outcomes (e.g. compliance with guidelines recommendations), 16 reported those changes measured as continuous process‐of‐care outcomes (e.g. number of days with catheters), eight reported dichotomous patient outcomes (e.g. mortality rates) and five reported continuous patient outcomes (e.g. mean systolic blood pressure). 
