Background
It is unclear whether people with type 2 diabetes mellitus on insulin monotherapy who do not achieve adequate glycaemic control should continue insulin as monotherapy or can benefit from adding oral glucose‐lowering agents to the insulin therapy. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of insulin monotherapy compared with the addition of oral glucose‐lowering agents to insulin monotherapy for people with type 2 diabetes already on insulin therapy and inadequate glycaemic control. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) and reference lists of articles. The date of the last search was November 2015 for all databases. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled clinical trials of at least two months' duration comparing insulin monotherapy with combinations of insulin with one or more oral glucose‐lowering agent in people with type 2 diabetes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials, assessed risk of bias, extracted data and evaluated overall quality of the evidence using GRADE. We summarised data statistically if they were available, sufficiently similar and of sufficient quality. We performed statistical analyses according to the statistical guidelines in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. 
Main results
We included 37 trials with 40 treatment comparisons involving 3227 participants. The duration of the interventions ranged from 2 to 12 months for parallel trials and two to four months for cross‐over trials. 
The majority of trials had an unclear risk of bias in several risk of bias domains. Fourteen trials showed a high risk of bias, mainly for performance and detection bias. Insulin monotherapy, including once‐daily long‐acting, once‐daily intermediate‐acting, twice‐daily premixed insulin, and basal‐bolus regimens (multiple injections), was compared to insulin in combination with sulphonylureas (17 comparisons: glibenclamide = 11, glipizide = 2, tolazamide = 2, gliclazide = 1, glimepiride = 1), metformin (11 comparisons), pioglitazone (four comparisons), alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors (four comparisons: acarbose = 3, miglitol = 1), dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 inhibitors (DPP‐4 inhibitors) (three comparisons: vildagliptin = 1, sitagliptin = 1, saxagliptin = 1) and the combination of metformin and glimepiride (one comparison). No trials assessed all‐cause mortality, diabetes‐related morbidity or health‐related quality of life. Only one trial assessed patients' treatment satisfaction and showed no substantial differences between the addition of either glimepiride or metformin and glimepiride to insulin compared with insulin monotherapy. 
Insulin‐sulphonylurea combination therapy (CT) compared with insulin monotherapy (IM) showed a MD in glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) of ‐1% (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.6 to ‐0.5); P < 0.01; 316 participants; 9 trials; low‐quality evidence. Insulin‐metformin CT compared with IM showed a MD in HbA1c of ‐0.9% (95% CI ‐1.2 to ‐0.5); P < 0.01; 698 participants; 9 trials; low‐quality evidence. We could not pool the results of adding pioglitazone to insulin. Insulin combined with alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors compared with IM showed a MD in HbA1c of ‐0.4% (95% CI ‐0.5 to ‐0.2); P < 0.01; 448 participants; 3 trials; low‐quality evidence). Insulin combined with DPP‐4 inhibitors compared with IM showed a MD in HbA1c of ‐0.4% (95% CI ‐0.5 to ‐0.4); P < 0.01; 265 participants; 2 trials; low quality evidence. In most trials the participants with CT needed less insulin, whereas insulin requirements increased or remained stable in participants with IM. 
We did not perform a meta‐analysis for hypoglycaemic events because the included studies used different definitions.. In most trials the insulin‐sulphonylurea combination resulted in a higher number of mild episodes of hypoglycaemia, compared to the IM group (range: 2.2 to 6.1 episodes per participant in CT versus 2.0 to 2.6 episodes per participant in IM; low‐quality evidence). Pioglitazone CT also resulted in more mild to moderate hypoglycaemic episodes compared with IM (range 15 to 90 episodes versus 9 to 75 episodes, respectively; low‐quality evidence. The trials that reported hypoglycaemic episodes in the other combinations found comparable numbers of mild to moderate hypoglycaemic events (low‐quality evidence). 
