Background
Preterm infants have low plasma levels of erythropoietin (EPO), providing a rationale for the use of erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents (ESAs) to prevent or treat anaemia and to provide neuro protection and protection against necrotising enterocolitis (NEC). Darbepoetin (Darbe) and EPO are currently available ESAs. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of ESAs (erythropoietin (EPO) and/or Darbe) initiated early (before eight days after birth) compared with placebo or no intervention in reducing red blood cell (RBC) transfusions, adverse neurological outcomes, and feeding intolerance including necrotising enterocolitis (NEC) in preterm and/or low birth weight infants. 
Primary objective for studies that primarily investigate the effectiveness and safety of ESAs administered early in reducing red blood cell transfusions: 
To assess the effectiveness and safety of ESAs initiated early in reducing red blood cell transfusions in preterm infants. 
Secondary objectives: 
Review authors performed subgroup analyses of low (≤ 500 IU/kg/week) and high (> 500 IU/kg/week) doses of EPO and the amount of iron supplementation provided: none, low (≤ 5 mg/kg/d), and high (> 5 mg/kg/d). 
Primary objective for studies that primarily investigate the neuro protective effectiveness of ESAs: 
To assess the effectiveness and safety of ESAs initiated early in reducing adverse neurological outcomes in preterm infants. 
Primary objective for studies that primarily investigate the effectiveness of EPO or Darbe administered early in reducing feeding intolerance: 
To assess the effectiveness and safety of ESAs administered early in reducing feeding intolerance (and NEC) in preterm infants. 
Other secondary objectives: 
To compare the effectiveness of ESAs in reducing the incidence of adverse events and improving long‐term neurodevelopmental outcomes. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2017, Issue 2), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 10 March 2017), Embase (1980 to 10 March 2017), and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL; 1982 to 10 March 2017). We searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings, and reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials of early initiation of EAS treatment versus placebo or no intervention in preterm or low birth weight infants. 
