Background
Psychosis is a serious mental condition characterised by a loss of contact with reality. There may be a prodromal period or stage of psychosis, where early signs of symptoms indicating onset of first episode psychosis (FEP) occur. A number of services, incorporating multimodal treatment approaches (pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy and psychosocial interventions), developed worldwide, now focus on this prodromal period with the aim of preventing psychosis in people at risk of developing FEP. 
Objectives
The primary objective is to assess the safety and efficacy of early interventions for people in the prodromal stage of psychosis. 
The secondary objective is, if possible, to compare the effectiveness of the various different interventions. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Schizophrenia's study‐based Register of studies (including trials registers) on 8 June 2016 and 4 August 2017. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating interventions for participants older than 12 years, who had developed a prodromal stage of psychosis. 
Data collection and analysis
Review authors independently inspected citations, selected studies, extracted data, and assessed study quality. 
Main results
We included 20 studies with 2151 participants. The studies analysed 13 different comparisons. Group A comparisons explored the absolute effects of the experimental intervention. Group B were comparisons within which we could not be clear whether differential interactive effects were also ongoing. Group C comparisons explored differential effects between clearly distinct treatments. 
A key outcome for this review was ‘transition to psychosis’. For details of other main outcomes please see 'Summary of findings' tables. 
In Group A (comparisons of absolute effects) we found no clear difference between amino acids and placebo (risk ratio (RR) 0.48 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.08 to 2.98; 2 RCTs, 52 participants; very low‐quality evidence). When omega‐3 fatty acids were compared to placebo, fewer participants given the omega‐3 (10%) transitioned to psychosis compared to the placebo group (33%) during long‐term follow‐up of seven years (RR 0.24 95% CI 0.09 to 0.67; 1 RCT, 81 participants; low‐quality evidence). 
In Group B (comparisons where complex interactions are probable) and in the subgroup focusing on antipsychotic drugs added to specific care packages, the amisulpiride + needs‐focused intervention (NFI) compared to NFI comparison (no reporting of transition to psychosis; 1 RCT, 102 participants; very low‐quality evidence) and the olanzapine + supportive intervention compared to supportive intervention alone comparison (RR 0.58 95% CI 0.28 to 1.18; 1 RCT, 60 participants; very low‐quality evidence) showed no clear differences between groups. 
