Background
Postpartum haemorrhage is among the biggest contributor to maternal mortality worldwide. Prevention of this condition includes routine use of uterotonic in the third stage of labour, which has been recommended throughout the world. Use of umbilical route to deliver this uterotonic after delivery of the baby has been proposed. Therapeutic use of this has been assessed, although routine (prophylactic) use of this has not been evaluated. 
Objectives
To compare, from the best available evidence, the effects of umbilical vein injection of a saline solution alone or with any uterotonic drug versus an alternative solution with or without any other uterotonic agent or expectant management or any other method for routine management of the third stage of labour, on maternal and perinatal outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 January 2012) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials comparing the effects of umbilical vein injection of a saline solution alone or with any uterotonic drug versus any other alternative methods. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the eligibility and trial quality. Two review authors extracted data. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included nine studies involving 1118 women.
We identified four comparisons. One comparison included six studies (which randomised 394 women) comparing umbilical vein injection of normal saline plus oxytocin versus that of normal saline, as well as three other comparisons, each of which includes one study. Comparing intraumbilical injection of normal saline plus oxytocin with intraumbilical injection of saline only, there was no evidence of difference in any of the relevant outcomes reported namely the number of women who required blood transfusion, the incidence of manual removal of placenta, blood loss, and length of the third stage of labour. Subgroup analyses by both total amount of solution administered and dose of oxytocin showed no evidence of difference. Other comparisons included only one study for each, and there was no relevant information available. 
