Background
Long‐term indwelling catheters are used commonly in people with lower urinary tract problems in home, hospital and specialised health‐care settings. There are many potential complications and adverse effects associated with long‐term catheter use. The effect of health‐care policies related to the replacement of long‐term urinary catheters on patient outcomes is unclear. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of different policies for replacing long‐term indwelling urinary catheters in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Specialised Trials Register, which contains trials identified from the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, MEDLINE In‐Process, MEDLINE Epub Ahead of Print, CINAHL, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP and handsearching of journals and conference proceedings (searched 19 May 2016), and the reference lists of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials investigating policies for replacing long‐term indwelling urinary catheters in adults were included. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors independently performed data extraction and assessed risk of bias of all the included trials. Quality of evidence was assessed by adopting the GRADE approach. Any discrepancies were resolved by discussion between the review authors or an independent arbitrator. We contacted the authors of included trials to seek clarification where required. 
Main results
Three trials met the inclusion criteria, with a total of 107 participants in three different health‐care settings: A USA veterans administration nursing home; a geriatric centre in Israel; and a community nursing service in Hong Kong. Data were available for three of the pre‐stated comparisons. Priefer and colleagues evaluated different time intervals between catheter replacement (n = 17); Firestein and colleagues evaluated the use of antibiotic prophylaxis at the time of replacement (n = 70); and Cheung and colleagues compared two different types of cleaning solutions (n = 20). 
