Background
Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorder (ADHD) can co‐occur in up to 40% of people with epilepsy. There is debate about the efficacy and tolerability of stimulant and non‐stimulant drugs used to treat people with ADHD and co‐occurring epilepsy. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of stimulant and non‐stimulant drugs on children and adults with ADHD and co‐occurring epilepsy in terms of seizure frequency and drug withdrawal rates (primary objectives), as well as seizure severity, ADHD symptoms, cognitive state, general behaviour, quality of life, and adverse effects profile (secondary objectives). 
Search methods
We searched the following databases on 12 October 2020: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 9 October 2020), CINAHL Plus (EBSCOhost, 1937 onwards). There were no language restrictions. CRS Web includes randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials from PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and the Specialised Registers of Cochrane Review Groups including Epilepsy.  
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials of stimulant and non‐stimulant drugs for people of any age, gender or ethnicity with ADHD and co‐occurring epilepsy. 
Data collection and analysis
We selected articles and extracted data according to predefined criteria. We conducted primary analysis on an intention‐to‐treat basis. We presented outcomes as risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), except for individual adverse effects where we quoted 99% CIs. We conducted best‐ and worst‐case sensitivity analyses to deal with missing data. We carried out a risk of bias assessment for each included study using the Cochrane risk of bias tool and assessed the overall certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We identified two studies that matched our inclusion criteria: a USA study compared different doses of the stimulant drug osmotic‐release oral system methylphenidate (OROS‐MPH) with a placebo in 33 children (mean age 10.5 ± 3.0 years), and an Iranian study compared the non‐stimulant drug omega‐3 taken in conjunction with risperidone and usual anti‐seizure medication (ASM) with risperidone and ASM only in 61 children (mean age 9.24 ± 0.15 years). All children were diagnosed with epilepsy and ADHD according to International League Against Epilepsy and Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, fourth edition, criteria, respectively. We assessed both studies to be at low risk of detection and reporting biases, but assessments varied from low to high risk of bias for all other domains. 
