Background
The reinforcing properties of nicotine may be mediated through release of various neurotransmitters both centrally and systemically. People who smoke report positive effects such as pleasure, arousal, and relaxation as well as relief of negative affect, tension, and anxiety. Opioid (narcotic) antagonists are of particular interest to investigators as potential agents to attenuate the rewarding effects of cigarette smoking. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy of opioid antagonists in promoting long‐term smoking cessation. The drugs include naloxone and the longer‐acting opioid antagonist naltrexone. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialised Register for trials of naloxone, naltrexone and other opioid antagonists and conducted an additional search of MEDLINE using 'Narcotic antagonists' and smoking terms in April 2013. We also contacted investigators, when possible, for information on unpublished studies. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised controlled trials comparing opioid antagonists to placebo or an alternative therapeutic control for smoking cessation. We included in the meta‐analysis only those trials which reported data on abstinence for a minimum of six months. We also reviewed, for descriptive purposes, results from short‐term laboratory‐based studies of opioid antagonists designed to evaluate psycho‐biological mediating variables associated with nicotine dependence. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data in duplicate on the study population, the nature of the drug therapy, the outcome measures, method of randomisation, and completeness of follow‐up. The main outcome measure was abstinence from smoking after at least six months follow‐up in patients smoking at baseline. Abstinence at end of treatment was a secondary outcome. We extracted cotinine‐ or carbon monoxide‐verified abstinence where available. Where appropriate, we performed meta‐analysis, pooling risk ratios using a Mantel‐Haenszel fixed‐effect model. 
