Background
PRO 140 (a humanized form of the PA14 antibody, a monoclonal CCR5 antibody) inhibits CCR5‐tropic (R5) type 1 human immunodeficiency virus (HIV). This may be an effective new treatment with the potential to address the limitations of currently available therapies for HIV‐infected patients. 
Objectives
We aimed to assess the efficacy, safety, clinical disease progression and immunologic (CD4 count/percentage) and virologic (plasma HIV RNA viral load) markers of PRO 140 for HIV‐infected patients in randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomized controlled trials (quasi‐RCTs). 
Search methods
We searched databases including The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library 2014, Issue 4), MEDLINE (PubMed, January 1966 to April 2014), EMBASE (January 1978 to April 2014) and ISI Web of Knowledge (January 1966 to April 2014), online trials registries and other sources. We also screened the reference lists of related literature and eligible studies, and presentations from major HIV/AIDS (human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome) conferences. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs and quasi‐RCTs comparing PRO 140 with placebo or other antiretroviral drugs, or different doses of PRO 140 for individuals infected with HIV. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers (L Li and JH Tian) independently screened all retrieved citations and selected eligible studies. Two authors (P Zhang and WQ Jia) independently extracted data. Any disagreements when selecting studies and extracting data were adjudicated by the review mentor (KH Yang). We used Review Manager (RevMan) software for statistical analysis based on an intention‐to‐treat analysis. We examined heterogeneity using the Chi2 statistic. We regarded I2 estimates greater than 50% as moderate or high levels of heterogeneity. According to the level of heterogeneity, we used either a fixed or random‐effects model.If significant heterogeneity existed and the reasons could not be found, we reported the results qualitatively. 
