Background
People with cystic fibrosis (CF) have increased transport of the salt, sodium across their airway lining. Over‐absorption of sodium results in the dehydration of the liquid that lines the airway surface and (along with defective chloride secretion) is a primary defect in people with CF. 
Objectives
To determine whether the topical administration of drugs that block sodium transport improves the respiratory condition of people with CF. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches, handsearching relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. We contacted principal investigators known to work in the field, previous authors and pharmaceutical companies who manufacture ion transport agents for unpublished or follow‐up data. 
Most recent search of the Group's register: 19 December 2013.
Selection criteria
Published or unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐randomised controlled trials of sodium channel blockers compared to placebo or another sodium channel blocker or the same sodium channel blocker at a different dosing regimen. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted data. Meta‐analysis was limited due to differing study designs. 
Main results
Five RCTs, with a total of 226 participants, examining the topical administration of the short‐acting sodium channel blocker, amiloride, compared to placebo were identified as eligible for inclusion in the review. In three studies over six months, there was a significant difference found in the difference in relative change in FVC in favour of placebo (weighted mean difference 1.51% (95% confidence interval ‐2.77 to ‐0.25), although heterogeneity was evident. A two‐week study demonstrated that hypertonic saline with amiloride pre‐treatment did not result in a significant improvement in respiratory function or mucus clearance, in contrast to pre‐treatment with placebo. There were no significant differences identified in other clinically relevant outcomes. 
