Background
Social networking platforms offer a wide reach for public health interventions allowing communication with broad audiences using tools that are generally free and straightforward to use and may be combined with other components, such as public health policies. We define interactive social media as activities, practices, or behaviours among communities of people who have gathered online to interactively share information, knowledge, and opinions. 
Objectives
We aimed to assess the effectiveness of interactive social media interventions, in which adults are able to communicate directly with each other, on changing health behaviours, body functions, psychological health, well‐being, and adverse effects. 
Our secondary objective was to assess the effects of these interventions on the health of populations who experience health inequity as defined by PROGRESS‐Plus. We assessed whether there is evidence about PROGRESS‐Plus populations being included in studies and whether results are analysed across any of these characteristics. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, CINAHL, Embase, MEDLINE (including trial registries) and PsycINFO. We used Google, Web of Science, and relevant web sites to identify additional studies and searched reference lists of included studies. We searched for published and unpublished studies from 2001 until June 1, 2020. We did not limit results by language. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), controlled before‐and‐after (CBAs) and interrupted time series studies (ITSs). We included studies in which the intervention website, app, or social media platform described a goal of changing a health behaviour, or included a behaviour change technique. The social media intervention had to be delivered to adults via a commonly‐used social media platform or one that mimicked a commonly‐used platform. We included studies comparing an interactive social media intervention alone or as a component of a multi‐component intervention with either a non‐interactive social media control or an active but less‐interactive social media comparator (e.g. a moderated versus an unmoderated discussion group). 
Our main outcomes were health behaviours (e.g. physical activity), body function outcomes (e.g. blood glucose), psychological health outcomes (e.g. depression), well‐being, and adverse events. Our secondary outcomes were process outcomes important for behaviour change and included knowledge, attitudes, intention and motivation, perceived susceptibility, self‐efficacy, and social support. 
Data collection and analysis
We used a pre‐tested data extraction form and collected data independently, in duplicate. Because we aimed to assess broad outcomes, we extracted only one outcome per main and secondary outcome categories prioritised by those that were the primary outcome as reported by the study authors, used in a sample size calculation, and patient‐important. 
