Background
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a form of diabetes occurring during pregnancy which can result in short‐ and long‐term adverse outcomes for women and babies. With an increasing prevalence worldwide, there is a need to assess strategies, including dietary advice interventions, that might prevent GDM. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of dietary advice interventions for preventing GDM and associated adverse health outcomes for women and their babies. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register (3 January 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs assessing the effects of dietary advice interventions compared with no intervention (standard care), or to different dietary advice interventions. Cluster‐RCTs were eligible for inclusion but none were identified. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study eligibility, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of the included studies. Data were checked for accuracy. The quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 11 trials involving 2786 women and their babies, with an overall unclear to moderate risk of bias. Six trials compared dietary advice interventions with standard care; four compared low glycaemic index (GI) with moderate‐ to high‐GI dietary advice; one compared specific (high‐fibre focused) with standard dietary advice. 
Dietary advice interventions versus standard care (six trials)  
Considering primary outcomes, a trend towards a reduction in GDM was observed for women receiving dietary advice compared with standard care (average risk ratio (RR) 0.60, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.35 to 1.04; five trials, 1279 women; Tau² = 0.20; I² = 56%; P = 0.07; GRADE: very low‐quality evidence); subgroup analysis suggested a greater treatment effect for overweight and obese women receiving dietary advice. While no clear difference was observed for pre‐eclampsia (RR 0.61, 95% CI 0.25 to 1.46; two trials, 282 women; GRADE: low‐quality evidence) a reduction in pregnancy‐induced hypertension was observed for women receiving dietary advice (RR 0.30, 95% CI 0.10 to 0.88; two trials, 282 women; GRADE: low‐quality evidence). One trial reported on perinatal mortality, and no deaths were observed (GRADE: very low‐quality evidence). None of the trials reported on large‐for‐gestational age or neonatal mortality and morbidity. 
