Background
Individuals dying of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19) may experience distressing symptoms such as breathlessness or delirium. Palliative symptom management can alleviate symptoms and improve the quality of life of patients. Various treatment options such as opioids or breathing techniques have been discussed for use in COVID‐19 patients. However, guidance on symptom management of COVID‐19 patients in palliative care has often been derived from clinical experiences and guidelines for the treatment of patients with other illnesses. An understanding of the effectiveness of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological palliative interventions to manage specific symptoms of COVID‐19 patients is required. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control in individuals with COVID‐19. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register (including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP), medRxiv); Web of Science Core Collection (Science Citation Index Expanded, Emerging Sources); CINAHL; WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease; and COAP Living Evidence on COVID‐19 to identify completed and ongoing studies without language restrictions until 23 March 2021. 
We screened the reference lists of relevant review articles and current treatment guidelines for further literature. 
Selection criteria
We followed standard Cochrane methodology as outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. 
We included studies evaluating palliative symptom management for individuals with a confirmed diagnosis of COVID‐19 receiving interventions for palliative symptom control, with no restrictions regarding comorbidities, age, gender, or ethnicity. Interventions comprised pharmacological as well as non‐pharmacological treatment (e.g. acupressure, physical therapy, relaxation, or breathing techniques). We searched for the following types of studies: randomized controlled trials (RCT), quasi‐RCTs, controlled clinical trials, controlled before‐after studies, interrupted time series (with comparison group), prospective cohort studies, retrospective cohort studies, (nested) case‐control studies, and cross‐sectional studies. 
We searched for studies comparing pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control with standard care. 
We excluded studies evaluating palliative interventions for symptoms caused by other terminal illnesses. If studies enrolled populations with or exposed to multiple diseases, we would only include these if the authors provided subgroup data for individuals with COVID‐19. We excluded studies investigating interventions for symptom control in a curative setting, for example patients receiving life‐prolonging therapies such as invasive ventilation.  
