Background
Hand osteoarthritis (OA) is a prevalent joint disease that may lead to pain, stiffness and problems in performing hand‐related activities of daily living. Currently, no cure for OA is known, and non‐pharmacological modalities are recommended as first‐line care. A positive effect of exercise in hip and knee OA has been documented, but the effect of exercise on hand OA remains uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of exercise compared with other interventions, including placebo or no intervention, in people with hand OA. Main outcomes are hand pain and hand function. 
Search methods
We searched six electronic databases up until September 2015.
Selection criteria
All randomised and controlled clinical trials comparing therapeutic exercise versus no exercise or comparing different exercise programmes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials, extracted data, assessed risk of bias and assessed the quality of the body of evidence using the GRADE approach. Outcomes consisted of both continuous (hand pain, physical function, finger joint stiffness and quality of life) and dichotomous outcomes (proportions of adverse events and withdrawals). 
Main results
We included seven studies in the review. Most studies were free from selection and reporting bias, but one study was available only as a congress abstract. It was not possible to blind participants to treatment allocation, and although most studies reported blinded outcome assessors, some outcomes (pain, function, stiffness and quality of life) were self‐reported. The results may be vulnerable to performance and detection bias owing to unblinded participants and self‐reported outcomes. Two studies with high drop‐out rates may be vulnerable to attrition bias. We downgraded the overall quality of the body of evidence to low owing to potential detection bias (lack of blinding of participants on self‐reported outcomes) and imprecision (studies were few, the number of participants was limited and confidence intervals were wide for the outcomes pain, function and joint stiffness). For quality of life, adverse events and withdrawals due to adverse events, we further downgraded the overall quality of the body of evidence to very low because studies were very few and confidence intervals were very wide. 
