Background
Gestational diabetes, glucose intolerance with onset or first recognition during pregnancy, is a rising problem worldwide. Both non‐pharmacological and pharmacological approaches to the prevention of gestational diabetes have been, and continue to be explored. Myo‐inositol, an isomer of inositol, is a naturally occurring sugar commonly found in cereals, corn, legumes and meat. It is one of the intracellular mediators of the insulin signal and correlated with insulin sensitivity in type 2 diabetes. The potential beneficial effect on improving insulin sensitivity suggests that myo‐inositol may be useful for women in preventing gestational diabetes. 
Objectives
To assess if antenatal dietary supplementation with myo‐inositol is safe and effective, for the mother and fetus, in preventing gestational diabetes. 
Search methods
We searched the Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP (2 November 2015) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We sought published and unpublished randomised controlled trials, including conference abstracts, assessing the effects of myo‐inositol for the prevention of gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). Quasi‐randomised and cross‐over trials were not eligible for inclusion, but cluster designs were eligible. Participants in the trials were pregnant women. Women with pre‐existing type 1 or type 2 diabetes were excluded. Trials that compared the administration of any dose of myo‐inositol, alone or in a combination preparation were eligible for inclusion. Trials that used no treatment, placebo or another intervention as the comparator were eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, risk of bias and extracted the data. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included four randomised controlled trials (all conducted in Italy) reporting on 567 women who were less than 11 weeks' to 24 weeks' pregnant at the start of the trials. The trials had small sample sizes and one trial only reported an interim analysis. Two trials were open‐label. The overall risk of bias was unclear. 
