Background
About 70% to 80% of adults with cancer experience chemotherapy‐induced nausea and vomiting (CINV). CINV remains one of the most distressing symptoms associated with cancer therapy and is associated with decreased adherence to chemotherapy. Combining 5‐hydroxytryptamine‐3 (5‐HT₃) receptor antagonists with corticosteroids or additionally with neurokinin‐1 (NK₁) receptor antagonists is effective in preventing CINV among adults receiving highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC) or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC). Various treatment options are available, but direct head‐to‐head comparisons do not allow comparison of all treatments versus another.  
Objectives
• In adults with solid cancer or haematological malignancy receiving HEC  
‐ To compare the effects of antiemetic treatment combinations including NK₁ receptor antagonists, 5‐HT₃ receptor antagonists, and corticosteroids on prevention of acute phase (Day 1), delayed phase (Days 2 to 5), and overall (Days 1 to 5) chemotherapy‐induced nausea and vomiting in network meta‐analysis (NMA) 
‐ To generate a clinically meaningful treatment ranking according to treatment safety and efficacy 
• In adults with solid cancer or haematological malignancy receiving MEC  
‐ To compare whether antiemetic treatment combinations including NK₁ receptor antagonists, 5‐HT₃ receptor antagonists, and corticosteroids are superior for prevention of acute phase (Day 1), delayed phase (Days 2 to 5), and overall (Days 1 to 5) chemotherapy‐induced nausea and vomiting to treatment combinations including 5‐HT₃ receptor antagonists and corticosteroids solely, in network meta‐analysis 
‐ To generate a clinically meaningful treatment ranking according to treatment safety and efficacy 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, conference proceedings, and study registries from 1988 to February 2021 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs including adults with any cancer receiving HEC or MEC (according to the latest definition) and comparing combination therapies of NK₁ and 5‐HT₃ inhibitors and corticosteroids for prevention of CINV. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
We expressed treatment effects as risk ratios (RRs). Prioritised outcomes were complete control of vomiting during delayed and overall phases, complete control of nausea during the overall phase, quality of life, serious adverse events (SAEs), and on‐study mortality. We assessed GRADE and developed 12 'Summary of findings' tables. We report results of most crucial outcomes in the abstract, that is, complete control of vomiting during the overall phase and SAEs. For a comprehensive illustration of results, we randomly chose aprepitant plus granisetron as exemplary reference treatment for HEC, and granisetron as exemplary reference treatment for MEC. 
Main results
Highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC) 
We included 73 studies reporting on 25,275 participants and comparing 14 treatment combinations with NK₁ and 5‐HT₃ inhibitors. All treatment combinations included corticosteroids. 
