Background
This is the second update of previously published reviews in the Cochrane Library (2015, first update 2017). Interleukin‐5 (IL‐5) is the main cytokine involved in the proliferation, maturation, activation and survival of eosinophils, which cause airway inflammation and are a classic feature of asthma. Studies of monoclonal antibodies targeting IL‐5 or its receptor (IL‐5R) suggest they reduce asthma exacerbations, improve health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and lung function in appropriately selected patients, justifying their inclusion in the latest guidelines. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of therapies targeting IL‐5 signalling (anti‐IL‐5 or anti‐IL‐5Rα) with placebo on exacerbations, health‐related quality‐of‐life (HRQoL) measures and lung function in adults and children with chronic asthma, and specifically in those with eosinophilic asthma refractory to existing treatments. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and two trials registers, manufacturers' websites, and reference lists of included studies. The most recent search was 7 February 2022. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing mepolizumab, reslizumab and benralizumab versus placebo in adults and children with asthma. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and analysed outcomes using a random‐effects model. We used standard methods expected by Cochrane. 
Main results
Seventeen studies on about 7600 participants met the inclusion criteria. Six used mepolizumab, five used reslizumab, and six used benralizumab. One study using benralizumab was terminated early due to sponsor decision and contributed no data. The studies were predominantly on people with severe eosinophilic asthma, which was similarly but variably defined. One was in children aged 6 to 17 years; nine others included children over 12 years but did not report results by age group separately. We deemed the overall risk of bias to be low, with all studies contributing data of robust methodology. We considered the certainty of the evidence for all comparisons to be high overall using the GRADE scheme, except for intravenous (IV) mepolizumab and subcutaneous (SC) reslizumab because these are not currently licensed delivery routes. 
