Background
A variety of in‐service emergency care training courses are currently being promoted as a strategy to improve the quality of care provided to seriously ill newborns and children in low‐income countries. Most courses have been developed in high‐income countries. However, whether these courses improve the ability of health professionals to provide appropriate care in low‐income countries remains unclear. This is the first update of the original review. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of in‐service emergency care training on health professionals' treatment of seriously ill newborns and children in low‐income countries. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, part of The Cochrane Library (www.cochranelibrary.com); MEDLINE, Ovid SP; EMBASE, Ovid SP; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), part of The Cochrane Library (www.cochranelibrary.com) (including the Cochrane Effective Practice and Organisation of Care (EPOC) Group Specialised Register); Science Citation Index and Social Sciences Citation Index, Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Knowledge/Science and eight other databases. We performed database searches in February 2015. We also searched clinical trial registries, websites of relevant organisations and reference lists of related reviews. We applied no date, language or publication status restrictions when conducting the searches. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials, non‐randomised trials, controlled before and after studies and interrupted‐time‐series studies that compared the effects of in‐service emergency care training versus usual care were eligible for inclusion. We included only hospital‐based studies and excluded community‐based studies. Two review authors independently screened and selected studies for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed study risk of bias and confidence in effect estimates (certainty of evidence) for each outcome using GRADE (Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation). We described results and presented them in GRADE tables. 
