Background
Hydroxyurea (hydroxycarbamide) promotes the production of foetal haemoglobin (HbF) by reactivating gamma‐genes. Evidence has shown clinical benefits of hydroxyurea in people with sickle cell anemia; however, only a few studies have assessed this treatment in people with beta (β)‐thalassaemia. 
Objectives
The primary objective is to review the efficacy of hydroxyurea in reducing or ameliorating the requirement of blood transfusions in people with transfusion‐dependent β‐thalassaemia. The second objective is to review the safety of hydroxyurea with regards to severe adverse effects in this population. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, compiled from electronic database searches and hand searching of journals and conference abstract books. We also searched electronic databases and trial registries, including ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO ICTRP and PubMed (09 October 2018). 
Date of last search of the Group's haemoglobinopathies trials register: 04 March 2019.
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of hydroxyurea in people with transfusion‐dependent β‐thalassaemia, compared with placebo or standard treatment or comparing different doses of hydroxyurea. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed trials for inclusion in the review, which was verified by a third author. 
Main results
No trials were eligible for inclusion in this review.
Authors' conclusions
Currently, there is no high‐quality evidence to support or challenge the continued use of hydroxyurea for managing people with transfusion‐dependent β‐thalassaemia. Multicentre, randomised controlled trials (compared to placebo or other available treatment, i.e. blood transfusion and iron chelation) are needed in order to assess the efficacy and safety of hydroxyurea for reducing the need for blood transfusion, for maintaining or improving mean haemoglobin levels, as well as for determining its cost‐effectiveness. 
