Background
Spasticity commonly affects patients with motor neuron disease. It is likely to contribute to worsening muscle dysfunction, increased difficulty with activities of daily living and deteriorating quality of life. This is an update of a review first published in 2003 and previously updated in 2005 and 2008. 
Objectives
The objective of this review is to systematically review treatments for spasticity in amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as motor neuron disease. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register (4 July 2011), CENTRAL (2011, Issue 2), MEDLINE (January 1966 to July 2011), EMBASE (January 1980 to July 2011 ), CINAHL Plus (January 1937 to July 2011), AMED (January 1985 to July 2011) and LILACS (January 1982 to July 2011 ). We reviewed the bibliographies of the randomized controlled trials identified, and contacted authors and experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
We included quasi‐randomized or randomized controlled trials of participants with probable or definite amyotrophic lateral sclerosis according to the El Escorial diagnostic criteria (or a revised version) or the Airlie House revision. We would have included trials of physical therapy, modalities, prescription medications, non‐prescription medications, chemical neurolysis, surgical interventions, and alternative therapies. Our primary outcome measure was reduction in spasticity at three months or greater as measured by the Ashworth (or modified Ashworth) spasticity scale. Our secondary outcome measures were: validated measures based on history, physical examination, physiological measures, measures of function, measures of quality of life, all adverse events, and measures of cost. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened the abstracts of potential trials retrieved from the searches. Two authors extracted the data. We also contacted the author of the paper and obtained information not available in the published article. All three authors assessed the methodological quality of all included trials independently. 
