Background
Poorly controlled asthma often leads to preventable exacerbations that require additional medications, as well as unscheduled hospital and clinic visits. 
Long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABA) are commonly given to adults with asthma whose symptoms are not well controlled by inhaled corticosteroids (ICS). US and UK regulators have issued warnings for LABA in asthma, and now recommend they be used "for the shortest duration of time required to achieve control of asthma symptoms and discontinued, if possible, once asthma control is achieved". 
Objectives
To compare cessation of long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABA) versus continued use of LABA/inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS) for adults whose asthma is well controlled, and to determine whether stopping LABA: 
1. results in loss of asthma control or deterioration in quality of life; 2. increases the likelihood of asthma attacks or 'exacerbations'; or 3. increases or decreases the likelihood of serious adverse events of any cause. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register (CAGR), www.ClinicalTrials.gov, www.who.int/ictrp/en/, reference lists of primary studies and existing reviews and manufacturers' trial registries (GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) and AstraZeneca). We searched all databases from their inception to April 2015, and we imposed no restriction on language of publication. 
Selection criteria
We looked for parallel randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of at least eight weeks' duration, in which adults whose asthma was well controlled by any dose of ICS+LABA combination therapy were randomly assigned to (1) step‐down therapy to ICS alone versus (2) continuation of ICS and LABA. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened all records identified by the search strategy. We used an Excel extraction tool to manage searches, document reasons for inclusion and exclusion and extract descriptive and numerical data from trials meeting inclusion criteria. 
Prespecified primary outcomes were (1) exacerbations requiring oral steroids, (2) asthma control and (3) all‐cause serious adverse events. 
Main results
Six randomised, double‐blind studies between 12 and 24 weeks' long met the inclusion criteria. Five studies contributed data to the meta‐analysis, assigning 2781 people with stable asthma to the comparison of interest. The definition of stable asthma and inclusion criteria varied across studies, and Global Initiative for Asthma (GINA) criteria were not used. Risk of bias across studies was generally low, and most evidence was rated as moderate quality. 
