Background
Lone parents in high‐income countries have high rates of poverty (including in‐work poverty) and poor health. Employment requirements for these parents are increasingly common. 'Welfare‐to‐work' (WtW) interventions involving financial sanctions and incentives, training, childcare subsidies and lifetime limits on benefit receipt have been used to support or mandate employment among lone parents. These and other interventions that affect employment and income may also affect people's health, and it is important to understand the available evidence on these effects in lone parents. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of WtW interventions on mental and physical health in lone parents and their children living in high‐income countries. The secondary objective is to assess the effects of welfare‐to‐work interventions on employment and income. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE Ovid, Embase Ovid, PsycINFO EBSCO, ERIC EBSCO, SocINDEX EBSCO, CINAHL EBSCO, Econlit EBSCO, Web of Science ISI, Applied Social Sciences Index and Abstracts (ASSIA) via Proquest, International Bibliography of the Social Sciences (IBSS) via ProQuest, Social Services Abstracts via Proquest, Sociological Abstracts via Proquest, Campbell Library, NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) (CRD York), Turning Research into Practice (TRIP), OpenGrey and Planex. We also searched bibliographies of included publications and relevant reviews, in addition to many relevant websites. We identified many included publications by handsearching. We performed the searches in 2011, 2013 and April 2016. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of mandatory or voluntary WtW interventions for lone parents in high‐income countries, reporting impacts on parental mental health, parental physical health, child mental health or child physical health. 
Data collection and analysis
One review author extracted data using a standardised extraction form, and another checked them. Two authors independently assessed risk of bias and the quality of the evidence. We contacted study authors to obtain measures of variance and conducted meta‐analyses where possible. We synthesised data at three time points: 18 to 24 months (T1), 25 to 48 months (T2) and 49 to 72 months (T3). 
