Background
Renal vasculitis presents as rapidly progressive glomerulonephritis and comprises of a group of conditions characterised by acute kidney injury (AKI), haematuria and proteinuria. Treatment of these conditions involve the use of steroid and non‐steroid agents in combination with plasma exchange. Although immunosuppression overall has been very successful in treatment of these conditions, many questions remain unanswered in terms of dose and duration of therapy, the use of plasma exchange and the role of new therapies. This 2019 publication is an update of a review first published in 2008 and updated in 2015. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits and harms of any intervention used for the treatment of renal vasculitis in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 21 November 2019 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials investigating any intervention for the treatment of renal vasculitis in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed study quality and extracted data. Statistical analyses were performed using a random effects model and results expressed as risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes or mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes. 
Main results
Forty studies (3764 patients) were included. Studies conducted earlier tended to have a higher risk of bias due to poor (or poorly reported) study design, broad inclusion criteria, less well developed disease definitions and low patient numbers. Later studies tend to have improved in all areas of quality, aided by the development of large international study groups. 
Induction therapy: Plasma exchange as adjunctive therapy may reduce the need for dialysis at three (2 studies: RR 0.43, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.78; I2 = 0%) and 12 months (6 studies: RR 0.45, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.72; I2 = 0%) (low certainty evidence). Plasma exchange may make little or no difference to death, serum creatinine (SCr), sustained remission or to serious or the total number of adverse events. Plasma exchange may increase the number of serious infections (5 studies: RR 1.26, 95% CI 1.03 to 1.54; I2 = 0%; low certainty evidence). Remission rates for pulse versus continuous cyclophosphamide (CPA) were equivalent but pulse treatment may increase the risk of relapse (4 studies: RR 1.79, 95% CI 1.11 to 2.87; I2 = 0%) (low certainty evidence) compared with continuous cyclophosphamide. Pulse CPA may make little or no difference to death at final follow‐up, or SCr at any time point. More patients required dialysis in the pulse CPA group. Leukopenia was less common with pulse treatment; however, nausea was more common. Rituximab compared to CPA probably makes little or no difference to death, remission, relapse, severe adverse events, serious infections, or severe adverse events. Kidney function and dialysis were not reported. A single study reported no difference in the number of deaths, need for dialysis, or adverse events between mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) and CPA. Remission was reported to improve with MMF however more patients relapsed. A lower dose of steroids was probably as effective as high dose and may be safer, causing fewer infections; kidney function and relapse were not reported. There was little of no difference in death or remission between six and 12 pulses of CPA. There is low certainty evidence that there were less relapses with 12 pulses (2 studies: RR 1.57, 95% CI 0.96 to 2.56; I2 = 0%), but more infections (2 studies: RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.36 to 1.72; I2 = 45%). One study reported severe adverse events were less in patients receiving six compared to 12 pulses of CPA. Kidney function and dialysis were not reported. There is limited evidence from single studies about the effectiveness of intravenous immunoglobulin, avacopan, methotrexate, immunoadsorption, lymphocytapheresis, or etanercept. 
Maintenance therapy: Azathioprine (AZA) has equivalent efficacy as a maintenance agent to CPA with fewer episodes of leucopenia. MMF resulted in a higher relapse rate when tested against azathioprine in remission maintenance. Rituximab is an effective remission induction and maintenance agent. Oral co‐trimoxazole did not reduce relapses in granulomatosis with polyangiitis. There were fewer relapses but more serious adverse events with leflunomide compared to methotrexate. There is limited evidence from single studies about the effectiveness of methotrexate versus CPA or AZA, cyclosporin versus CPA, extended versus standard AZA, and belimumab. 
Authors' conclusions
Plasma exchange was effective in patients with severe AKI secondary to vasculitis. Pulse cyclophosphamide may result in an increased risk of relapse when compared to continuous oral use but a reduced total dose. Whilst CPA is standard induction treatment, rituximab and MMF were also effective. AZA, methotrexate and leflunomide were effective as maintenance therapy. Further studies are required to more clearly delineate the appropriate place of newer agents within an evidence‐based therapeutic strategy. 
