Background
Child and adolescent overweight and obesity has increased globally, and can be associated with significant short‐ and long‐term health consequences. This is an update of a Cochrane review published first in 2003, and updated previously in 2009. However, the update has now been split into six reviews addressing different childhood obesity treatments at different ages. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of diet, physical activity and behavioural interventions (behaviour‐changing interventions) for the treatment of overweight or obese children aged 6 to 11 years. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, LILACS as well as trial registers ClinicalTrials.gov and ICTRP Search Portal. We checked references of studies and systematic reviews. We did not apply any language restrictions. The date of the last search was July 2016 for all databases. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of diet, physical activity, and behavioural interventions (behaviour‐changing interventions) for treating overweight or obese children aged 6 to 11 years, with a minimum of six months' follow‐up. We excluded interventions that specifically dealt with the treatment of eating disorders or type 2 diabetes, or included participants with a secondary or syndromic cause of obesity. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened references, extracted data, assessed risk of bias, and evaluated the quality of the evidence using the GRADE instrument. We contacted study authors for additional information. We carried out meta‐analyses according to the statistical guidelines in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. 
Main results
We included 70 RCTs with a total of 8461 participants randomised to either the intervention or control groups. The number of participants per trial ranged from 16 to 686. Fifty‐five trials compared a behaviour‐changing intervention with no treatment/usual care control and 15 evaluated the effectiveness of adding an additional component to a behaviour‐changing intervention. Sixty‐four trials were parallel RCTs, and four were cluster RCTs. Sixty‐four trials were multicomponent, two were diet only and four were physical activity only interventions. Ten trials had more than two arms. The overall quality of the evidence was low or very low and 62 trials had a high risk of bias for at least one criterion. Total duration of trials ranged from six months to three years. The median age of participants was 10 years old and the median BMI z score was 2.2. 
