Background
Fungating wounds arise from primary, secondary or recurrent malignant disease and are associated with advanced cancer. A small proportion of patients may achieve healing following surgical excision, but treatment is usually palliative. Fungating wound management usually aims to slow disease progression and optimise quality of life by alleviating physical symptoms, such as copious exudate, malodour, pain and the risk of haemorrhage, through selection of appropriate dressings and topical agents. 
Objectives
To review the evidence of the effects of dressings and topical agents on quality of life, and symptoms that impact on quality of life, in people with fungating malignant wounds. 
Search methods
For this third update we searched the Wounds Group Specialised Register in August 2013; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library); Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid MEDLINE (In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid EMBASE and EBSCO CINAHL. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies comprised randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or, in their absence, controlled clinical trials (CCTs) with a concurrent control group. 
Data collection and analysis
Data extraction and risk of bias assessment was undertaken by one review author and checked for accuracy by a second. 
Main results
Four trials involving 164 people were included. One RCT in women with superficial breast lesions compared 6% miltefosine solution with placebo and found that miltefosine delayed tumour progression. The study reported that the time to treatment failure was significantly longer in the miltefosine group (median 56 days) than in the placebo group (median 21 days) (p value 0.007, log‐rank test). A second trial compared topical metronidazole with placebo but the results up to the point of cross‐over were not statistically significant. A third trial compared the effect of foam dressings containing silver to foam dressings without silver and found that more patients experienced decreased malodour in the foam with silver group than in the foam alone group (p value=0.049). The fourth trial compared the effect of manuka honey‐coated dressings with nanocrystalline silver‐coated dressings and found no statistically significant difference with regard to exudate, malodour and wound pain. All trials, however, had methodological limitations. 
Authors' conclusions
There is weak evidence from one small trial that 6% miltefosine solution applied topically to people with superficial fungating breast lesions (smaller than 1cm) who have received either previous radiotherapy, surgery, hormonal therapy or chemotherapy for their breast cancer, may slow disease progression. There is also weak evidence to suggest that foam dressings containing silver may be effective in reducing malodour. There is insufficient evidence in this review to give a clear direction for practice with regard to improving quality of life or managing wound symptoms associated with fungating wounds. More research is needed. 
