Background
Interventional treatment of arteries that are narrowed and obstructed by atherosclerosis involves either bypassing the blockage using a graft; widening the artery from the inside with a balloon, a procedure known as percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA); or providing a strut to hold the vessel open, known as a stent. All of these treatments are, however, limited by the high numbers that fail within a year. Intravascular brachytherapy is the application of radiation directly to the site of vessel narrowing. It is known to inhibit the processes that lead to restenosis (narrowing) of vessels and grafts after treatment. This is an update of a review first published in 2002. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of, and complications associated with, intravascular brachytherapy (IVBT) for maintaining patency after angioplasty or stent insertion in native vessels or bypass grafts of the iliac or infrainguinal arteries. 
Search methods
For this update the Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co‐ordinator searched their Specialised Register (last searched August 2013) and CENTRAL (2013, Issue 7). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of the use of brachytherapy as an adjunct to the endovascular treatment of people with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) or stenosed bypass grafts of the iliac or infrainguinal arteries versus the procedure without brachytherapy. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and two other review authors independently extracted the data. Adverse event information was collected from the trials. 
Main results
Eight trials with a combined total of 1090 participants were included in this review. All included studies used the femoropopliteal artery. We did not identify any studies that used the iliac arteries. All studies compared PTA with or without stenting plus IVBT versus PTA with or without stenting alone. No trials were found comparing IVBT to technologies such as drug eluting stents or balloons, or cryoplasty. Follow‐up ranged from six months to five years. The quality of the included trials was moderate with our concerns relating to the difficulty of blinding due to the nature of the procedures and the small sample sizes for some studies. Primary outcomes (patency or restenosis and need for re‐intervention) were reported in the majority of the trials, but reporting at various time points and the use of multiple definitions of the outcomes by the included studies meant that not all data were available for pooling. The secondary outcomes were not reported in many of the included studies. 
