Background
Congenital ptosis is a drooping of one or both eyelids at birth, often due to poor development of the levator palpebrae superioris muscle. This can result in amblyopia, astigmatism, and ocular torticollis and therefore may necessitate surgical intervention in early childhood if visual development is compromised. Patients may have varied levels of levator function. Those with moderate to good function may elect to first attempt ptosis repair with external levator advancement or mullerectomy/Fasanella–Servat procedures. For those with poor function, those procedures are less likely to be effective, so they may undergo frontalis sling surgery, in which the tarsal plate is coupled to the frontalis muscle, so that movement of the brow and forehead result in movement of the eyelid. The optimal material to use in this surgery is unknown. 
Objectives
To evaluate the comparative effectiveness and safety of various materials used in frontalis sling surgery for congenital ptosis. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register) (June 2018), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE E‐pub Ahead of Print, Ovid Medline In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily (January 1946 to 20 June 2018), Embase (January 1947 to 20 June 2018), PubMed (1948 to 20 June 2018), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS) (1982 to 20 June 2018), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic search for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 20 June 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized trials that compared one material to another for the treatment of congenital ptosis. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently completed eligibility screening, data abstraction, 'Risk of bias' assessment, and grading of the evidence. 
Main results
We identified three randomized trials that had compared four different materials, two materials in each trial. The studies included a total of 160 participants. The surgical procedures compared were polytetrafluoroethylene (Gore‐Tex), Ethibond suture, Mersilene mesh, and autogenous fascia lata. 
We judged all studies to be at unclear risk of bias due to incomplete reporting of methods and other methodological deficiencies. 
