Background
Clavicle fractures are common, accounting for 2.6% to 4% of all fractures. Eighty per cent of clavicle fractures are located in the middle third of the clavicle. Although treatment of these fractures is usually non‐surgical, displaced clavicle fractures may be considered for surgical treatment because of their greater risk of non‐union. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2013. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of surgical versus conservative interventions for treating middle third clavicle fractures. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, trials registries and reference lists updated to December 2017. We did not apply any language or publication restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials evaluating surgical versus conservative interventions for treating fractures in the middle third of the clavicle. The primary outcomes were shoulder function or disability, pain and treatment failure, defined as the number of participants who had been given a non‐routine secondary surgical intervention (excluding hardware removal), for symptomatic non‐union, malunion or other complications. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors selected eligible studies, independently assessed risk of bias and cross‐checked data. Where appropriate, we pooled results of comparable studies. 
Main results
We included 14 studies involving 1469 participants with acute middle third clavicle fractures. All studies included adults, with the overall range from 17 to 70 years. Of the studies that reported gender, men were over‐represented. Ten studies compared plate fixation with sling or figure‐of‐eight bandage, or both, and four studies compared intramedullary fixation with wearing either a sling or a figure‐of‐eight bandage. Almost all studies had design features that carry a high risk of bias, thus limiting the strength of their findings. 
Low‐quality evidence from 10 studies (838 participants), showed that, compared with conservative treatment, surgical treatment of acute middle third clavicle fractures may not improve upper arm function at follow‐up of one year or longer: standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.33, 95% confidence interval (CI) −0.02 to 0.67. We downgraded the quality of the evidence because of risk of bias and high statistical heterogeneity (I2 = 83%). This corresponds to a mean improvement of 2.3 points in favour of surgery (0.14 points worse to 4.69 points better), on the 100‐point Constant score; this does not represent a clinically important difference. There may be no difference in pain measured using a visual analogue scale (0 to 100 mm; higher scores mean worse pain) between treatments (mean difference (MD) −0.60 mm, 95% CI −3.51 to 2.31; 277 participants, 3 studies; low‐quality evidence reflecting risk of bias and imprecision). Surgery may reduce the risk of treatment failure, that is, number of participants who had non‐routine secondary surgical intervention (excluding hardware removal), for symptomatic non‐union, malunion or other complication (risk ratio (RR) 0.32, 95% CI 0.20 to 0.50; 1197 participants, 12 studies; low‐quality evidence, downgraded for risk of bias and imprecision). The main source of treatment failure was mechanical failure (3.4%) in the surgery group and symptomatic non‐union (11.6%) in the conservative‐treatment group. 
