Background
Cryptococcal meningitis is a severe fungal infection that occurs primarily in the setting of advanced immunodeficiency and remains a major cause of HIV‐related deaths worldwide. The best induction therapy to reduce mortality from HIV‐associated cryptococcal meningitis is unclear, particularly in resource‐limited settings where management of drug‐related toxicities associated with more potent antifungal drugs is a challenge. 
Objectives
To evaluate the best induction therapy to reduce mortality from HIV‐associated cryptococcal meningitis; to compare side effect profiles of different therapies. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase (Ovid), LILACS (BIREME), African Index Medicus, and Index Medicus for the South‐East Asia Region (IMSEAR) from 1 January 1980 to 9 July 2018. We also searched the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP), ClinicalTrials.gov, and the ISRCTN registry; and abstracts of select conferences published between 1 July 2014 and 9 July 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials that compared antifungal induction therapies used for the first episode of HIV‐associated cryptococcal meningitis. Comparisons could include different individual or combination therapies, or the same antifungal therapies with differing durations of induction (less than two weeks or two or more weeks, the latter being the current standard of care). We included data regardless of age, geographical region, or drug dosage. We specified no language restriction. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts identified by the search strategy. We obtained the full texts of potentially eligible studies to assess eligibility and extracted data using standardized forms. The main outcomes included mortality at 2 weeks, 10 weeks, and 6 months; mean rate of cerebrospinal fluid fungal clearance in the first two weeks of treatment; and Division of AIDS (DAIDS) grade three or four laboratory events. Using random‐effects models we determined pooled risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences (MD) and 95% CI for continuous outcomes. For the direct comparison of 10‐week mortality, we assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. We performed a network meta‐analysis using multivariate meta‐regression. We modelled treatment differences (RR and 95% CI) and determined treatment rankings for two‐week and 10‐week mortality outcomes using surface under the cumulative ranking curve (SUCRA). We assessed transitivity by comparing distribution of effect modifiers between studies, local inconsistency through a node‐splitting approach, and global inconsistency using design‐by‐treatment interaction modelling. For the network meta‐analysis, we applied a modified GRADE approach for assessing the certainty of the evidence for 10‐week mortality. 
