Background
Insulin requirements may change during pregnancy, and the optimal treatment for pre‐existing diabetes is unclear. There are several insulin regimens (e.g. via syringe, pen) and types of insulin (e.g. fast‐acting insulin, human insulin). 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different insulin types and different insulin regimens in pregnant women with pre‐existing type 1 or type 2 diabetes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 October 2016), ClinicalTrials.gov (17 October 2016), the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP; 17 October 2016), and the reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared different insulin types and regimens in pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes. 
We had planned to include cluster‐RCTs, but none were identified. We excluded quasi‐randomised controlled trials and cross‐over trials. We included studies published in abstract form and contacted the authors for further details when applicable. Conference abstracts were superseded by full publications. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, conducted data extraction, assessed risk of bias, and checked for accuracy. We assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
The findings in this review were based on very low‐quality evidence, from single, small sample sized trial estimates, with wide confidence intervals (CI), some of which crossed the line of no effect; many of the prespecified outcomes were not reported. Therefore, they should be interpreted with caution. We included five trials that included 554 women and babies (four open‐label, multi‐centre, two‐arm trials; one single centre, four‐arm RCT). All five trials were at a high or unclear risk of bias due to lack of blinding, unclear methods of randomisation, and selective reporting of outcomes. Pooling of data from the trials was not possible, as each trial looked at a different comparison. 
1. One trial (N = 33 women) compared Lispro insulin with regular insulin and provided very low‐quality evidence for the outcomes. There were seven episodes of pre‐eclampsia in the Lispro group and nine in the regular insulin group, with no clear difference between the two groups (risk ratio (RR) 0.68, 95% CI 0.35 to 1.30). There were five caesarean sections in the Lispro group and nine in the regular insulin group, with no clear difference between the two groups (RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.25 to 1.39). There were no cases of fetal anomaly in the Lispro group and one in the regular insulin group, with no clear difference between the groups (RR 0.35, 95% CI 0.02 to 8.08). Macrosomia, perinatal deaths, episodes of birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy, and fracture, and the composite outcome measure of neonatal morbidity were not reported. 
2. One trial (N = 42 women) compared human insulin to animal insulin, and provided very low‐quality evidence for the outcomes. There were no cases of macrosomia in the human insulin group and two in the animal insulin group, with no clear difference between the groups (RR 0.22, 95% CI 0.01 to 4.30). Perinatal death, pre‐eclampsia, caesarean section, fetal anomaly, birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy and fracture and the composite outcome measure of neonatal morbidity were not reported. 
