Background
Medications or mechanical dilators are often used to soften and dilate the cervix prior to surgical evacuation of the uterus for non‐viable pregnancy, or miscarriage. The majority of miscarriages occur in the first trimester. The aim of cervical ripening is to reduce the possibility of injury to the uterus and cervix and improve the surgical ease of the procedure. Cervical ripening agents can have adverse effects and it is uncertain as to whether these risks outweigh the benefits of their use. 
Objectives
To systematically review the benefits and harms of using cervical ripening agents prior to surgical evacuation of non‐viable pregnancy prior to 14 weeks' gestation. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 April 2015) and reference lists of retrieved papers. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (published in full‐text form, or as abstracts only), which assessed the use of pharmacological or mechanical agents to ripen the cervix in women undergoing dilation and curettage or vacuum aspiration for non‐viable pregnancy at less than 14 weeks' gestation were eligible for inclusion. Cluster‐randomised controlled trials and trials using a cross‐over design were not eligible for inclusion. 
Unpublished randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials would have been eligible for inclusion but none were identified. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the studies for inclusion, assessed risk of bias and carried out data extraction. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included nine trials with 469 women. A diverse set of medications and regimens were studied in these trials, making the comparisons available for meta‐analysis limited. The comparisons draw data from six trials with 383 participants. All trials were relatively small and had several aspects of unclear risk of bias with few of this review's outcomes reported. Due to this, no data from three trials were able to be used despite them meeting inclusion criteria. 
We carried out four comparisons: isosorbide mononitrate or dinitrate compared with misoprostol; misoprostol compared with placebo; chemical dilation (use of medications) compared with mechanical dilation; and any cervical preparation compared with placebo. 
