Background
Various techniques have been employed for the early detection of perioperative cerebral ischaemia and hypoxia. Cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is increasingly used in this clinical scenario to monitor brain oxygenation. However, it is unknown whether perioperative cerebral NIRS monitoring and the subsequent treatment strategies are of benefit to patients. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of perioperative cerebral NIRS monitoring and corresponding treatment strategies in adults and children, compared with blinded or no cerebral oxygenation monitoring, or cerebral oxygenation monitoring based on non‐NIRS technologies, on the detection of cerebral oxygen desaturation events (CDEs), neurological outcomes, non‐neurological outcomes and socioeconomic impact (including cost of hospitalization and length of hospital stay). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2016, Issue 12), Embase (1974 to 20 December 2016) and MEDLINE (PubMed) (1975 to 20 December 2016). We also searched the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for ongoing studies on 20 December 2016. We updated this search in November 2017, but these results have not yet been incorporated in the review. We imposed no language restriction. 
Selection criteria
We included all relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) dealing with the use of cerebral NIRS in the perioperative setting (during the operation and within 72 hours after the operation), including the operating room, the postanaesthesia care unit and the intensive care unit. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected studies, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. For binary outcomes, we calculated the risk ratio (RR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI). For continuous data, we estimated the mean difference (MD) between groups and its 95% CI. As we expected clinical and methodological heterogeneity between studies, we employed a random‐effects model for analyses and we examined the data for heterogeneity (I2 statistic). We created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADEpro. 
Main results
We included 15 studies in the review, comprising a total of 1822 adult participants. There are 12 studies awaiting classification, and eight ongoing studies. 
