Background
Muscle soreness typically occurs after intense exercise, unaccustomed exercise or actions that involve eccentric contractions where the muscle lengthens while under tension. It peaks between 24 and 72 hours after the initial bout of exercise. Many people take antioxidant supplements or antioxidant‐enriched foods before and after exercise in the belief that these will prevent or reduce muscle soreness after exercise. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of antioxidant supplements and antioxidant‐enriched foods for preventing and reducing the severity and duration of delayed onset muscle soreness following exercise. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, SPORTDiscus, trial registers, reference lists of articles and conference proceedings up to February 2017. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials investigating the effects of all forms of antioxidant supplementation including specific antioxidant supplements (e.g. tablets, powders, concentrates) and antioxidant‐enriched foods or diets on preventing or reducing delayed onset muscle soreness (DOMS). We excluded studies where antioxidant supplementation was combined with another supplement. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened search results, assessed risk of bias and extracted data from included trials using a pre‐piloted form. Where appropriate, we pooled results of comparable trials, generally using the random‐effects model. The outcomes selected for presentation in the 'Summary of findings' table were muscle soreness, collected at times up to 6 hours, 24, 48, 72 and 96 hours post‐exercise, subjective recovery and adverse effects. We assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
Fifty randomised, placebo‐controlled trials were included, 12 of which used a cross‐over design. Of the 1089 participants, 961 (88.2%) were male and 128 (11.8%) were female. The age range for participants was between 16 and 55 years and training status varied from sedentary to moderately trained. The trials were heterogeneous, including the timing (pre‐exercise or post‐exercise), frequency, dose, duration and type of antioxidant supplementation, and the type of preceding exercise. All studies used an antioxidant dosage higher than the recommended daily amount. The majority of trials (47) had design features that carried a high risk of bias due to selective reporting and poorly described allocation concealment, potentially limiting the reliability of their findings. 
