Background
CDP‐choline (cytidine 5'‐diphosphocholine) is a precursor essential for the synthesis of phosphatidylcholine, one of the cell membrane components that is degraded during cerebral ischaemia to free fatty acids and free radicals. Animal studies suggest that CDP‐choline may protect cell membranes by accelerating resynthesis of phospholipids. CDP‐choline may also attenuate the progression of ischaemic cell damage by suppressing the release of free fatty acids. CDP‐choline is the endogenous compound normally produced by the organism. When the same substance is introduced as a drug it can be called citicoline. 
CDP‐choline is mainly used in the treatment of disorders of a cerebrovascular nature. The many years of its presence in the clinical field have caused an evolution in dosage, method of administration, and selection criteria of patients to whom the treatments were given. Modalities of the clinical studies, including length of observation, severity of disturbance, and methodology of evaluation of the results were also heterogeneous. In spite of uncertainties about its efficacy due to these complexities, CDP‐choline is a frequently prescribed drug for cognitive impairment in several European countries, especially when the clinical picture is predominantly one of cerebrovascular disease, hence the need for this review. 
Due to its effects on the adrenergic and dopaminergic activity of the CNS, CDP‐choline has also been used as an adjuvant in the treatment of Parkinson's disease. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of CDP‐choline (cytidinediphosphocholine) in the treatment of cognitive, emotional, and behavioural deficits associated with chronic cerebral disorders in the elderly. 
Search methods
The trials were identified from a last updated search of the Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group on 22 April 2004 using the terms CDP‐choline, CDP, citicoline, cytidine diphosphate choline or diphosphocholine. The Register contains records from all major health‐care databases and many ongoing trials databases and is updated regularly. 
Selection criteria
All relevant unconfounded, double‐blind, placebo‐controlled, randomized trials of CDP‐choline for cognitive impairment due to chronic cerebral disorders were considered for inclusion in the review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently reviewed the included studies, extracted the data, and pooled it when appropriate and possible. The pooled odd ratios (95% Confidence Interval (CI)) or the average differences (95% CI) were estimated. No intention‐to‐treat data were available from the studies included. 
