Background
Systemic corticosteroids are used to treat people with COVID‐19 because they counter hyper‐inflammation. Existing evidence syntheses suggest a slight benefit on mortality. So far, systemic corticosteroids are one of the few treatment options for COVID‐19. Nonetheless, size of effect, certainty of the evidence, optimal therapy regimen, and selection of patients who are likely to benefit most are factors that remain to be evaluated. 
Objectives
To assess whether systemic corticosteroids are effective and safe in the treatment of people with COVID‐19, and to keep up to date with the evolving evidence base using a living systematic review approach. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register (which includes PubMed, Embase, CENTRAL, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP, and medRxiv), Web of Science (Science Citation Index, Emerging Citation Index), and the WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease to identify completed and ongoing studies to 16 April 2021. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated systemic corticosteroids for people with COVID‐19, irrespective of disease severity, participant age, gender or ethnicity.  
We included any type or dose of systemic corticosteroids. We included the following comparisons: systemic corticosteroids plus standard care versus standard care (plus/minus placebo), dose comparisons, timing comparisons (early versus late), different types of corticosteroids and systemic corticosteroids versus other active substances.  
We excluded studies that included populations with other coronavirus diseases (severe acute respiratory syndrome or Middle East respiratory syndrome), corticosteroids in combination with other active substances versus standard care, topical or inhaled corticosteroids, and corticosteroids for long‐COVID treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard Cochrane methodology. To assess the risk of bias in included studies, we used the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' 2 tool for RCTs. We rated the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach for the following outcomes: all‐cause mortality, ventilator‐free days, new need for invasive mechanical ventilation, quality of life, serious adverse events, adverse events, and hospital‐acquired infections. 
