Background
Gastro‐oesophageal reflux (GOR) is a common disorder, characterised by regurgitation of gastric contents into the oesophagus. GOR is a very common presentation in infancy in both primary and secondary care settings. GOR can affect approximately 50% of infants younger than three months old. The natural history of GOR in infancy is generally that of a functional, self‐limiting condition that improves with age; < 5% of children with vomiting or regurgitation continue to have symptoms after infancy. Older children and children with co‐existing medical conditions can have a more protracted course. The definition of gastro‐oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) and its precise distinction from GOR are debated, but consensus guidelines from the North American Society of Gastroenterology, Hepatology and Nutrition define GORD as 'troublesome symptoms or complications of GOR.' 
Objectives
This Cochrane review aims to provide a robust analysis of currently available pharmacological interventions used to treat children with GOR by assessing all outcomes indicating benefit or harm. 
Search methods
We sought to identify relevant published trials by searching the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (2014, Issue 5), MEDLINE and EMBASE (1966 to 2014), the Centralised Information Service for Complementary Medicine (CISCOM), the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Science Citation Index (on BIDS—UK General Science Index) and the ISI Web of Science. We also searched for ongoing trials in the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT). 
Reference lists from trials selected by electronic searching were handsearched for relevant paediatric studies on medical treatment of children with gastro‐oesophageal reflux, as were published abstracts from conference proceedings (published in Gut and Gastroenterology) and reviews published over the past five years.No language restrictions were applied. 
Selection criteria
Abstracts were reviewed by two review authors, and relevant RCTs on study participants (birth to 16 years) with GOR receiving a pharmacological treatment were selected. Subgroup analysis was considered for children up to 12 months of age, and for children 12 months to 16 years of age, and for those with neurological impairment. 
Data collection and analysis
Trials were critically appraised and data collected by two review authors. Risk of bias was assessed. Meta‐analysis data were independently extracted by two review authors, and suitable outcome data were analysed using RevMan. 
Main results
A total of 24 studies (1201 participants) contributed data to the review. The review authors had several concerns regarding the studies. Pharmaceutical company support for manuscript preparation was a common feature; also, because common endpoints were lacking, study populations were heterogenous and variations in study design were noted, individual drug meta‐analysis was not possible. 
Moderate‐quality evidence from individual studies suggests that proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) can reduce GOR symptoms in children with confirmed erosive oesophagitis. It was not possible to demonstrate statistical superiority of one PPI agent over another. 
Some evidence indicates that H₂antagonists are effective in treating children with GORD. Methodological differences precluded performance of meta‐analysis on individual agents or on these agents as a class, in comparison with placebo or head‐to‐head versus PPIs, and additional studies are required. 
RCT evidence is insufficient to permit assessment of the efficacy of prokinetics. Given the diversity of study designs and the heterogeneity of outcomes, it was not possible to perform a meta‐analysis of the efficacy of domperidone. 
In younger children, the largest RCT of 80 children (one to 18 months of age) with GOR showed no evidence of improvement in symptoms and 24‐hour pH probe, but improvement in symptoms and reflux index was noted in a subgroup treated with domperidone and co‐magaldrox(Maalox® ). In another RCT of 17 children, after eight weeks of therapy. 33% of participants treated with domperidone noted an improvement in symptoms (P value was not significant). In neonates, the evidence is even weaker; one RCT of 26 neonates treated with domperidone over 24 hours showed that although reflux frequency was significantly increased, reflux duration was significantly improved. 
