Background
Acute traumatic wounds are one of the common reasons why people present to the emergency department. Primary closure has traditionally been reserved for traumatic wounds presenting within six hours of injury and considered 'clean' by the attending surgeon, with the rest undergoing delayed primary closure as a means of controlling wound infection. Primary closure has the potential benefit of rapid wound healing but poses the potential threat of increased wound infection. There is currently no evidence to guide clinical decision‐making on the best timing for closure of traumatic wounds. 
Objectives
To determine the effect on time to healing of primary closure versus delayed closure for non bite traumatic wounds presenting within 24 hours post injury. To explore the adverse effects of primary closure compared with delayed closure for non bite traumatic wounds presenting within 24 hours post injury. 
Search methods
In May 2013, for this first update we searched the Cochrane Wounds Group Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library); Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid MEDLINE (In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid EMBASE; and EBSCO CINAHL. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing primary closure with delayed closure of non bite traumatic wounds. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently evaluated the results of the searches against the inclusion criteria. No studies met the inclusion criteria for this review. 
Main results
Since no studies met the inclusion criteria, neither a meta‐analysis nor a narrative description of studies was possible. 
Authors' conclusions
There is currently no systematic evidence to guide clinical decision‐making regarding the timing for closure of traumatic wounds. There is a need for robust research to investigate the effect of primary closure compared with delayed closure for non bite traumatic wounds presenting within 24 hours of injury. 
