Background
The Internet could provide a means of delivering secondary prevention programmes to people with coronary heart disease (CHD). 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of Internet‐based interventions targeting lifestyle changes and medicines management for the secondary prevention of CHD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, in December 2014. We also searched six other databases in October 2014, and three trials registers in January 2015 together with reference checking and handsearching to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating Internet‐delivered secondary prevention interventions aimed at people with CHD. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias and extracted data according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. We assessed evidence quality using the GRADE approach and presented this in a 'Summary of findings' table. 
Main results
Eighteen trials met our inclusion criteria. Eleven studies are complete (1392 participants), and seven are ongoing. Of the completed studies, seven interventions are broad, targeting the lifestyle management of CHD, and four focused on physical activity promotion. The comparison group in trials was usual care (n = 6), minimal intervention (n = 3), or traditional cardiac rehabilitation (n = 2). 
We found no effects of Internet‐based interventions for all‐cause mortality (odds ratio (OR) 0.27, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.04 to 1.63; participants = 895; studies = 6; low‐quality evidence). There was only one case of cardiovascular mortality in a control group (participants = 895; studies = 6). No incidences of non‐fatal re‐infarction were reported across any of the studies. We found no effects for revascularisation (OR 0.69, 95% CI 0.37 to 1.27; participants = 895; studies = 6; low‐quality evidence). 
We found no effects for total cholesterol (mean difference (MD) 0.00, 95% CI ‐0.27 to 0.28; participants = 439; studies = 4; low‐quality evidence), high‐density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol (MD 0.01, 95% CI ‐0.06 to 0.07; participants = 437; studies = 4; low‐quality evidence), or triglycerides (MD 0.01, 95% CI ‐0.17 to 0.19; participants = 439; studies = 4; low‐quality evidence). We did not pool the data for low‐density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol due to considerable heterogeneity. Two out of six trials measuring LDL cholesterol detected favourable intervention effects, and four trials reported no effects. Seven studies measured systolic and diastolic blood pressure; we did not pool the data due to substantial heterogeneity. For systolic blood pressure, two studies showed a reduction with the intervention, but the remaining studies showed no effect. For diastolic blood pressure, two studies showed a reduction with the intervention, one study showed an increase with the intervention, and the remaining four studies showed no effect. 
