Background
Although early‐onset group B β‐hemolytic streptococcus (GBS) infection is rare, it accounts for approximately 30% of neonatal infections, has a high mortality rate, and is acquired through vertical transmission from colonized mothers. Several trials have demonstrated the efficacy of intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis (IAP) for preventing early‐onset disease (EOD). Vaginal disinfection with chlorhexidine during labour has been proposed as another strategy for preventing GBS EOD in the preterm and term neonate. Chlorhexidine has been found to have no impact on antibiotic resistance, is inexpensive, and applicable to poorly equipped delivery sites. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of vaginal disinfection with chlorhexidine during labour in women who are colonized with GBS for preventing early‐onset GBS infection in preterm and term neonates. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 October 2014) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized trials comparing vaginal disinfection with chlorhexidine (vaginal wash or gel/cream) versus placebo, or no treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently assessed the trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted the data and checked them for accuracy. 
Main results
We identified no new trials eligible for inclusion in this update. One study was moved from included to excluded studies from the previous version of the review. Four studies, including 1125 preterm and term infants, met the inclusion criteria and reported on at least one of the outcomes of interest. For the comparison chlorhexidine (vaginal wash or gel) versus placebo or no treatment, two studies (n = 987) were pooled. There was no statistically significant difference in early‐onset GBS disease (sepsis and/or meningitis) comparing chlorhexidine (vaginal wash or gel/cream) versus placebo or no treatment; risk ratio (RR), 2.32 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.34 to 15.63); I‐squared (I²) = 0% or in GBS pneumonia; RR 0.35 (95% CI 0.01 to 8.6); test for heterogeneity not applicable. The outcome of colonization of the neonate with GBS was reported in three studies (n = 328); RR 0.64 (95% CI 0.40 to 1.01; there was substantial between‐study heterogeneity (Chi² = 3.19; P = 0.20; I² = 37%). Maternal mild side effects (stinging or local irritation) (three trials, 1066 women) were more commonly seen in women treated with chlorhexidine (RR 8.50 (95% CI 1.60 to 45.28); there was no heterogeneity (Chi² = 0.01, df = 1 (P = 0.91); I² = 0%). No side effects were reported among the neonates. 
