Background
This is the second update of a Cochrane review that was first published in 2009, Issue 1. Gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) is a rare but curable disease arising in the fetal chorion during pregnancy. Most women with low‐risk GTN will be cured by evacuation of the uterus with or without single‐agent chemotherapy. However, chemotherapy regimens vary between treatment centres worldwide and the comparable benefits and risks of these different regimens are unclear. 
Objectives
To determine the efficacy and safety of first‐line chemotherapy in the treatment of low‐risk GTN. 
Search methods
We electronically searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and Embase in September 2008, February 2012, and January 2016. In addition, we searched online trial registers for protocols and ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
For the original review, we included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs and non‐RCTs that compared first‐line chemotherapy for the treatment of low‐risk GTN. For this updated versions of the review, we included only RCTs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion and extracted data to a pre‐designed data extraction form. Meta‐analysis was performed using the random‐effects model. 
Main results
We included seven RCTs (667 women) in this updated review. Most studies were at a low or moderate risk of bias and all compared methotrexate with actinomycin D. Three studies compared weekly intramuscular (IM) methotrexate with bi‐weekly pulsed intravenous (IV) actinomycin D (393 women), one study compared five‐day IM methotrexate with bi‐weekly pulsed IV actinomycin D (75 women), one study compared eight‐day IM methotrexate‐folinic acid (MTX‐FA) with five‐day IV actinomycin D (49 women), and one study compared eight‐day IM MTX‐FA with bi‐weekly pulsed IV actinomycin D. One study contributed no data. 
Moderate‐certainty evidence indicates that actinomycin D is probably more likely to lead to primary cure than methotrexate (risk ratio (RR) 0.65, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.57 to 0.75; six trials, 577 participants; I2 = 26%), and first‐line methotrexate treatment is probably more likely to fail than actinomycin D treatment (RR 3.55, 95% CI 1.81 to 6.95; six trials, 577 participants; I2 = 61%; moderate‐certainty evidence) 
