Background
Maintaining therapeutic concentrations of drugs with a narrow therapeutic window is a complex task. Several computer systems have been designed to help doctors determine optimum drug dosage. Signiﬁcant improvements in health care could be achieved if computer advice improved health outcomes and could be implemented in routine practice in a cost‐effective fashion. This is an updated version of an earlier Cochrane systematic review, first published in 2001 and updated in 2008. 
Objectives
To assess whether computerized advice on drug dosage has beneficial effects on patient outcomes compared with routine care (empiric dosing without computer assistance). 
Search methods
The following databases were searched from 1996 to January 2012: EPOC Group Specialized Register, Reference Manager; Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Ovid; EMBASE, Ovid; and CINAHL, EbscoHost. A "top up" search was conducted for the period January 2012 to January 2013; these results were screened by the authors and potentially relevant studies are listed in Studies Awaiting Classification. The review authors also searched reference lists of relevant studies and related reviews. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials, non‐randomized controlled trials, controlled before‐and‐after studies and interrupted time series analyses of computerized advice on drug dosage. The participants were healthcare professionals responsible for patient care. The outcomes were any objectively measured change in the health of patients resulting from computerized advice (such as therapeutic drug control, clinical improvement, adverse reactions). 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed study quality. We grouped the results from the included studies by drug used and the effect aimed at for aminoglycoside antibiotics, amitriptyline, anaesthetics, insulin, anticoagulants, ovarian stimulation, anti‐rejection drugs and theophylline. We combined the effect sizes to give an overall effect for each subgroup of studies, using a random‐effects model. We further grouped studies by type of outcome when appropriate (i.e. no evidence of heterogeneity). 
