Background
This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in The Cochrane Library in Issue 2, 2003 and previously updated in 2006. 
Otitis media with effusion (OME) is the most common cause of acquired hearing loss in childhood and has been associated with delayed language development and behavioural problems. Some have argued that children should be screened and treated early if found to have clinically important OME, however there is a high rate of spontaneous resolution and in some children effusions may not reduce hearing significantly or impact negatively on language development or behaviour. 
Objectives
The aim of this review was to assess evidence from randomised controlled trials about the effect, on language and behavioural outcomes, of screening and treating children with clinically important OME in the first four years of their life. 
Search methods
Our search included the Cochrane Ear, Nose and Throat Disorders Group Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), PubMed, EMBASE and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the most recent search was 30 June 2009, following previous update searches in January 2006 and original searches in February 2002. 
Selection criteria
1. Randomised controlled trials evaluating interventions for OME among children with OME identified through screening.  2. Comparison of outcomes for children randomised to be screened for OME and outcomes for children who were not randomised to be screened for OME. 
Data collection and analysis
Four authors independently extracted data and assessed trial quality; two in the original review and two for the updates. 
Main results
We identified no trials comparing outcomes for children randomised to be screened for OME with outcomes for children who were not randomised to be screened for OME. We identified three trials (668 participants) evaluating interventions for OME among children with OME identified through screening, one of which generated five published studies. These were trials of treatment in children identified through screening rather than trials of treatment programmes. From these trials, we found no evidence of a clinically important benefit in language development from screening and treating children with clinically important OME. 
