Background
For adults with asthma that is poorly controlled on inhaled corticosteroids (ICS), guidelines suggest adding a long‐acting beta2‐agonist (LABA). The LABA can be taken together with ICS in a single (combination) inhaler. Improved symptom control can be assessed in the individual; however, the long‐term risk of hospital admission or death requires evidence from randomised controlled trials. Clinical trials record these safety outcomes as non‐fatal and fatal serious adverse events (SAEs), respectively. 
Objectives
To assess the risk of serious adverse events in adults with asthma treated with regular maintenance formoterol or salmeterol compared with placebo, or when randomly assigned in combination with regular ICS, compared with the same dose of ICS. 
Methods
We included Cochrane reviews on the safety of regular formoterol and salmeterol from a June 2013 search of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. We carried out a search for additional trials in September 2013 and incorporated the new data. All reviews were independently assessed for inclusion and for quality (using the AMSTAR tool). We extracted from each review data from trials recruiting adults (participants older than 12 or 18 years of age). 
We combined the results from reviews on formoterol and salmeterol to assess the safety of twice‐daily regular LABA as a class effect, both as monotherapy versus placebo and as combination therapy versus the same dose of ICS. 
We did not combine the results of direct and indirect comparisons of formoterol and salmeterol, or carry out a network meta‐analysis, because of concerns over transitivity assumptions that posed a threat to the validity of indirect comparisons. 
Main results
We identified six high‐quality, up‐to‐date Cochrane reviews. Of these, four reviews (89 trials with 61,366 adults) related to the safety of regular formoterol or salmeterol as monotherapy or combination therapy. Two reviews assessed safety from trials in which adults were randomly assigned to formoterol versus salmeterol. These included three trials with 1116 participants given monotherapy (all prescribed background ICS) and 10 trials with 8498 adults receiving combination therapy. An additional search for trials in September 2013 identified five new included studies contributing data from 693 adults with asthma treated with combination formoterol/fluticasone in comparison with the same dose of inhaled fluticasone, as well as from 447 adults for whom formoterol monotherapy was compared with placebo. 
