Background
When couples are faced with the dilemma of a higher‐order multiple pregnancy there are three options. Termination of the entire pregnancy has generally not been acceptable to women, especially for those with a past history of infertility. Attempting to continue with all the fetuses is associated with inherent problems of preterm birth, survival and long‐term morbidity. The other alternative relates to reduction in the number of fetuses by selective termination. The acceptability of these options for the couple will depend on their social background and underlying beliefs. This review focused on reduction in the number of fetuses. 
Objectives
To assess a policy of multifetal reduction with a policy of expectant management of women with a multiple pregnancy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 July 2015). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials with reported data that compared outcomes in mothers and babies who were managed expectantly with outcomes in women who underwent selective fetal reduction of a multiple pregnancy. 
Data collection and analysis
We planned that two review authors would independently assess trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extract data and check them for accuracy. However, no randomised trials were identified. 
Main results
There were no randomised controlled trials identified.
Authors' conclusions
We found no available data from randomised trials to inform the risks and benefits of pregnancy reduction procedures for women with a multiple pregnancy. While randomised controlled trials will provide the most reliable evidence about the risks and benefits of fetal reduction procedures, reduction in the number of fetuses by selective termination may not be acceptable to women, particularly couples with a past history of infertility. The acceptability of this option, and willingness to undergo randomisation will depend on the couple's social background and beliefs, and consequently, recruitment to such a trial may prove exceptionally difficult. 
