Background
Inhaled anticholinergics given in addition to β2‐agonists are effective in reducing hospital admissions in children presenting to the emergency department with a moderate to severe asthma exacerbation. It seems logical to assume a similar beneficial effect in children hospitalised for an acute asthma exacerbation. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of anticholinergics added to β2‐agonists as inhaled or nebulised therapy in children hospitalised for an acute asthma exacerbation. To investigate the characteristics of patients or therapy, if any, that would influence the magnitude of response attributable to the addition of anticholinergics. 
Search methods
We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials (CAGR), which is derived through systematic searches of bibliographic databases including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED and PsycINFO and through handsearching of respiratory journals and meeting abstracts. The search is current to November 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing the combination of inhaled or nebulised anticholinergics and short‐acting β2‐agonists versus short‐acting β2‐agonists alone in children one to 18 years of age hospitalised for an acute asthma exacerbation were eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the methodological quality of trials and extracted data; disagreement was resolved by consensus or with the input of a third review author, when needed. Primary outcomes were duration of hospital stay and serious adverse events. Secondary outcomes included admission and duration of stay in the intensive care unit (ICU), ventilation assistance, time to short‐acting β2‐agonists spaced at four hours or longer, supplemental asthma therapy, duration of supplemental oxygen, change from baseline in asthma severity, relapse after discharge, adverse health effects and withdrawals. 
Main results
Seven randomised trials were included, four of which reported usable data on 472 children with asthma one to 18 years of age who were admitted to paediatric wards. No trials included patients admitted to the ICU. The anticholinergic used, ipratropium bromide 250 μg, was given every one to eight hours over a period from four hours to the entire length of the hospital stay. Two of four trials (50%) contributing data were deemed of high methodological quality. The addition of anticholinergics to β2‐agonists showed no evidence of effect on the duration of hospital admission (mean difference (MD) ‐0.28 hours, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐5.07 to 4.52, 3 studies, 327 participants, moderate quality evidence) and no serious or non‐serious adverse events were reported in any included trials. As a result of the similarity of trials, we could not explore the influence of age, admission site, intensity of anticholinergic treatment and co‐interventions on primary outcomes. No statistically significant group difference was noted in other secondary outcomes, including the need for supplemental asthma therapy, time to short‐acting β2‐agonists spaced at four hours or longer, asthma clinical scores, lung function and overall withdrawals for any reason. 
