Background
Anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) tears are frequently treated with surgical reconstruction with grafts, frequently patella tendon or hamstrings. Interference screws are often used to secure the graft in bone tunnels in the femur and tibia. This review examines whether bioabsorbable interference screws give better results than metal interference screws when used for graft fixation in ACL reconstruction. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of bioabsorbable versus metallic interference screws for graft fixation in ACL reconstruction. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL (the Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, trial registers and reference lists of articles. Date of search: January 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials comparing bioabsorbable with metallic interferences screws in ACL reconstruction. The main outcomes sought were subjective‐rated knee function, failure of treatment, and activity level. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors selected eligible trials, independently assessed risk of bias, and cross‐checked data. Data were pooled whenever relevant and possible. Requests for further information were sent to the original study authors. 
Main results
We included 12 trials (11 randomised and one quasi‐randomised) involving a total of 944 participants, and reporting follow‐up results for 774. Participants in the 12 trials underwent ACL reconstruction with either hamstring tendon grafts (five trials) or patellar tendon grafts (seven trials). Trials participants were randomly allocated to bioabsorbable or metallic interference screws for graft fixation in both femur and tibia (seven trials); femur only (three trials); tibia only (one trial); location was not reported in the remaining trial. A variety of materials was used for the bioabsorbable screws, Poly‐L‐lactic acid (PLLA) being the most common. The metallic screws, where reported, were titanium. 
All trials were at high risk of bias, which invariably included performance bias. Seven trials were at high risk of attrition bias and eight at high risk of reporting bias. The quasi‐randomised trial was assessed as being at high risk for selection bias. Based on these study limitations and insufficiency of the available data, we judged the quality of evidence for all outcomes was very low. 
The majority of the available data for patient‐reported knee function was presented as Lysholm scores (0 to 100; higher scores = better function). There was very low quality but consistent evidence of no clinically important differences between the two groups in Lysholm scores at 12 months follow‐up (mean difference (MD) ‐0.08, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.48 to 1.32; three trials, 168 participants); 24 months (MD 0.35, 95% CI ‐1.27 to 1.98; three trials, 113 participants) or five or more years follow‐up (MD 1.23, 95% CI ‐2.00 to 4.47; two trials, 71 participants). This lack of between‐group differences was also reported for Lysholm scores in several trials that did not provide sufficient data for pooling as well as for other self‐reported knee function scores reported in several trials. 
