Background
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common cause of morbidity in the general population. While numerous studies have established the efficacy of prostanoids in PAD stages III and IV, the question of the role of prostanoids as an alternative or additive treatment in patients suffering from intermittent claudication (PAD II) has not yet been clearly answered. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2004. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of prostanoids in patients with intermittent claudication (IC) Fontaine stage II. 
Search methods
For this update, the Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co‐ordinator (TSC) searched the Specialised Register (last searched January 2013) and CENTRAL (2012, Issue 12). Clinical trials databases were searched for details of ongoing or unpublished studies. In addition, reference lists of relevant articles were checked. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials of prostanoids versus placebo or alternative ('control') treatment in people with intermittent claudication were considered for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Primary outcomes included pain‐free walking distance (PFWD) and maximum walking distance (MWD), presented as mean change in walking distance during the course of the trial (% improvement) and as final walking distance (that is walking distance, in metres, after treatment) for the prostanoid and control groups. 
Main results
Eighteen trials with a total of 2773 patients were included (16 in the original review and a further two in this update). As the majority of trials did not report standard deviations for the primary PFWD and MWD outcomes, it was often not possible to test for the statistical significance of any improvements in walking distance between groups. The quality of individual trials was variable and usually unclear due to insufficient reporting information. Comparison between trials was hampered by the use of different treadmill testing protocols, including different walking speeds and gradients. Such limitations in the data and the trial heterogeneity meant it was not possible to meaningfully pool results by meta‐analysis. 
