Background
Liver transplantation is an established treatment option for end‐stage liver failure. To date, no consensus has been reached on the use of immunosuppressive T‐cell antibody induction for preventing rejection after liver transplantation. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of immunosuppressive T‐cell specific antibody induction compared with placebo, no induction, or another type of T‐cell specific antibody induction for prevention of acute rejection in liver transplant recipients. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index Expanded, and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) until September 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials assessing immunosuppression with T‐cell specific antibody induction compared with placebo, no induction, or another type of antibody induction in liver transplant recipients. Our inclusion criteria stated that participants within each included trial should have received the same maintenance immunosuppressive therapy. We planned to include trials with all of the different types of T‐cell specific antibodies that are or have been used for induction (ie., polyclonal antibodies (rabbit of horse antithymocyte globulin (ATG), or antilymphocyte globulin (ALG)), monoclonal antibodies (muromonab‐CD3, anti‐CD2, or alemtuzumab), and interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists (daclizumab, basiliximab, BT563, or Lo‐Tact‐1)). 
Data collection and analysis
We used RevMan analysis for statistical analysis of dichotomous data with risk ratio (RR) and of continuous data with mean difference (MD), both with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the risk of systematic errors (bias) using bias risk domains with definitions. We used trial sequential analysis to control for random errors (play of chance). We presented outcome results in a summary of findings table. 
Main results
We included 19 randomised clinical trials with a total of 2067 liver transplant recipients. All 19 trials were with high risk of bias. Of the 19 trials, 16 trials were two‐arm trials, and three trials were three‐arm trials. Hence, we found 25 trial comparisons with antibody induction agents: interleukin‐2 receptor antagonist (IL‐2 RA) versus no induction (10 trials with 1454 participants); monoclonal antibody versus no induction (five trials with 398 participants); polyclonal antibody versus no induction (three trials with 145 participants); IL‐2 RA versus monoclonal antibody (one trial with 87 participants); and IL‐2 RA versus polyclonal antibody (two trials with 112 participants). Thus, we were able to compare T‐cell specific antibody induction versus no induction (17 trials with a total of 1955 participants). Overall, no difference in mortality (RR 0.91; 95% CI 0.64 to 1.28; low‐quality of evidence), graft loss including death (RR 0.92; 95% CI 0.71 to 1.19; low‐quality of evidence), and adverse events ((RR 0.97; 95% CI 0.93 to 1.02; low‐quality evidence) outcomes was observed between any kind of T‐cell specific antibody induction compared with no induction when the T‐cell specific antibody induction agents were analysed together or separately. Acute rejection seemed to be reduced when any kind of T‐cell specific antibody induction was compared with no induction (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.75 to 0.96; moderate‐quality evidence), and when trial sequential analysis was applied, the trial sequential monitoring boundary for benefit was crossed before the required information size was obtained. Furthermore, serum creatinine was statistically significantly higher when T‐cell specific antibody induction was compared with no induction (MD 3.77 μmol/L, 95% CI 0.33 to 7.21; low‐quality evidence), as well as when polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction was compared with no induction, but this small difference was not clinically significant. We found no statistically significant differences for any of the remaining predefined outcomes — infection, cytomegalovirus infection, hepatitis C recurrence, malignancy, post‐transplant lymphoproliferative disease, renal failure requiring dialysis, hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension — when the T‐cell specific antibody induction agents were analysed together or separately. Limited data were available for meta‐analysis on drug‐specific adverse events such as haematological adverse events for antithymocyte globulin. No data were found on quality of life. 
When T‐cell specific antibody induction agents were compared with another type of antibody induction, no statistically significant differences were found for mortality, graft loss, and acute rejection for the separate analyses. When interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists were compared with polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction, drug‐related adverse events were less common among participants treated with interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists (RR 0.23, 95% CI 0.09 to 0.63; low‐quality evidence), but this was caused by the results from one trial, and trial sequential analysis could not exclude random errors. We found no statistically significant differences for any of the remaining predefined outcomes: infection, cytomegalovirus infection, hepatitis C recurrence, malignancy, post‐transplant lymphoproliferative disease, renal failure requiring dialysis, hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus, and hypertension. No data were found on quality of life. 
