Background
Corticosteroids are commonly used to improve the rate of recovery from acute exacerbation in multiple sclerosis (MS) patients. However, it is unclear just how effective these agents are and which is the best treatment schedule (type of drug, dose, frequency, duration of treatment and route of administration). 
This review is un update of the Cochrane Review, "Corticosteroids or ACTH for acute exacerbations in multiple sclerosis," first published in The Cochrane Library 2000, Issue 4. 
Objectives
Primary objectives were to determine the effects of corticosteroids and ACTH for the treatment of MS patients with acute exacerbation in terms of improvement of disability; reduction of risk of new exacerbations during follow‐up; and prevention of disability progression at long‐term follow‐up. Secondary objectives included the frequency and severity of adverse effects and their acceptability in the light of benefits; the different effects of corticosteroids according to different doses and drugs, routes of administration, length of treatment and interval of time between onset of symptoms and randomisation, based on indirect comparisons; the different treatment effects according to disease course and the effect of corticosteroids or ACTH on magnetic resonance imaging as a surrogate marker of disease activity. 
Search methods
The Trials Search Co‐ordinator of the Cochrane Multiple Sclerosis and Rare Diseases of the Central Nervous System Group searched the Group's Specialised Register, which, among other sources, contains the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 2), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, LILACS, PEDro and clinical trials registries (31 March 2013). 
The review authors undertook handsearching and contacted trialists and pharmaceutical companies. 
Selection criteria
All randomised, double‐blind trials comparing corticosteroids or ACTH versus placebo in MS participants during acute exacerbations, regardless of age or severity, were evaluated. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors selected trials for inclusion, assessed the risk of bias and extracted data independently. Disagreements were resolved by consensus among review authors. Study authors were contacted for additional information. 
