Background
Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are usually preferred for simple analgesics such as paracetamol for rheumatoid arthritis. It is not clear, however, whether the trade‐offs between benefits and harms of NSAIDs are preferable to those of paracetamol (paracetamol is also called acetaminophen). 
Objectives
To compare the benefits and harms of paracetamol with NSAIDs in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Search methods
PubMed and EMBASE databases were searched up until August 2007. Reference lists of identified articles were also searched. 
Selection criteria
Randomised double‐blind studies comparing paracetamol with an NSAID.
Data collection and analysis
Decisions on inclusion of trials and data extraction were performed by the two authors independently. 
Main results
Four cross‐over studies, published between 1968 and 1982, involving 121 patients, and four different NSAIDs were included. The generation of the allocation sequence and the use of methods to conceal the allocation were not described in any of the studies. The studies were double‐blind but it was not clear whether the blinding was effective. Methods for collecting adverse effects were not described. The NSAIDs were preferred more often than paracetamol by the patients or the investigator. In the largest trial, 20 out of 54 patients (37%) preferred ibuprofen and 7 out of 54 (13%) paracetamol. Investigators preference (as established by joint tenderness, grip strength and joint circumference) was 17 out of 35 for diclofenac versus 5 out of 35 for paracetamol in another trial. However, because of the weaknesses in the trials, no firm conclusion can be drawn. 
Authors' conclusions
When considering the trade off between the benefits and harms of non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs and paracetamol/acetaminophen, it is not known whether one is better than the other for rheumatoid arthritis. But people with rheumatoid arthritis and the researchers in the study did prefer non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs more than acetaminophen/paracetamol. There is a need for a large trial, with appropriate randomisation, double‐blinding, test of the success of the blinding, and with explicit methods to measure and analyse pain and adverse effects. 
