Background
Tuberculosis is the primary cause of hospital admission in people living with HIV, and the likelihood of death in the hospital is unacceptably high. The Alere Determine TB LAM Ag test (AlereLAM) is a point‐of‐care test and the only lateral flow lipoarabinomannan assay (LF‐LAM) assay currently commercially available and recommended by the World Health Organization (WHO). A 2019 Cochrane Review summarised the diagnostic accuracy of LF‐LAM for tuberculosis in people living with HIV. This systematic review assesses the impact of the use of LF‐LAM (AlereLAM) on mortality and other patient‐important outcomes. 
Objectives
To assess the impact of the use of LF‐LAM (AlereLAM) on mortality in adults living with HIV in inpatient and outpatient settings. 
To assess the impact of the use of LF‐LAM (AlereLAM) on other patient‐important outcomes in adults living with HIV, including time to diagnosis of tuberculosis, and time to initiation of tuberculosis treatment. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE (PubMed); Embase (Ovid); Science Citation Index Expanded (Web of Science), BIOSIS Previews, Scopus, LILACS; ProQuest Dissertations and Theses; ClinicalTrials.gov; and the WHO ICTRP up to 12 March 2021. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials that compared a diagnostic intervention including LF‐LAM with diagnostic strategies that used smear microscopy, mycobacterial culture, a nucleic acid amplification test such as Xpert MTB/RIF, or a combination of these tests. We included adults (≥ 15 years) living with HIV. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for eligibility, extracted data, and analysed risk of bias using the Cochrane tool for assessing risk of bias in randomized studies. We contacted study authors for clarification as needed. We used risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We used a fixed‐effect model except in the presence of clinical or statistical heterogeneity, in which case we used a random‐effects model. We assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We included three trials, two in inpatient settings and one in outpatient settings. All trials were conducted in sub‐Saharan Africa and assessed the impact of diagnostic strategies that included LF‐LAM on mortality when the test was used in conjunction with other tuberculosis diagnostic tests or clinical assessment for clinical decision‐making in adults living with HIV. 
Inpatient settings  
In inpatient settings, the use of LF‐LAM testing as part of a tuberculosis diagnostic strategy likely reduces mortality in people living with HIV at eight weeks compared to routine tuberculosis diagnostic testing without LF‐LAM (pooled RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.76 to 0.94; 5102 participants, 2 trials; moderate‐certainty evidence). That is, people living with HIV who received LF‐LAM had 15% lower risk of mortality. The absolute effect was 34 fewer deaths per 1000 (from 14 fewer to 55 fewer). 
In inpatient settings, the use of LF‐LAM testing as part of a tuberculosis diagnostic strategy probably results in a slight increase in the proportion of people living with HIV who were started on tuberculosis treatment compared to routine tuberculosis diagnostic testing without LF‐LAM (pooled RR 1.26, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.69; 5102 participants, 2 trials; moderate‐certainty evidence).  
Outpatient settings 
In outpatient settings, the use of LF‐LAM testing as part of a tuberculosis diagnostic strategy may reduce mortality in people living with HIV at six months compared to routine tuberculosis diagnostic testing without LF‐LAM (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.71 to 1.11; 2972 participants, 1 trial; low‐certainty evidence). Although this trial did not detect a difference in mortality, the direction of effect was towards a mortality reduction, and the effect size was similar to that in inpatient settings.  
