Background
While many cessation programmes are available to assist smokers in quitting, research suggests that support from individual partners, family members, or 'buddies' may encourage abstinence. 
Objectives
To determine if an intervention to enhance one‐to‐one partner support for smokers attempting to quit improves smoking cessation outcomes, compared with cessation interventions lacking a partner‐support component. 
Search methods
We limited the search to the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialised Register, which was updated in April 2018. This includes the results of searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE (via OVID); Embase (via OVID); and PsycINFO (via OVID). The search terms used were smoking (prevention, control, therapy), smoking cessation and support (family, marriage, spouse, partner, sexual partner, buddy, friend, cohabitant and co‐worker). We also reviewed the bibliographies of all included articles for additional trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials recruiting people who smoked. Trials were eligible if they had at least one treatment arm that included a smoking cessation intervention with a partner‐support component, compared to a control condition providing behavioural support of similar intensity, without a partner‐support component. Trials were also required to report smoking cessation at six months follow‐up or more. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified the included studies from the search results, and extracted data using a structured form. A third review author helped resolve discrepancies, in line with standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Smoking abstinence, biochemically verified where possible, was the primary outcome measure and was extracted at two post‐treatment intervals where possible: at six to nine months and at 12 months or longer. We used a random‐effects model to pool risk ratios from each study and estimate a summary effect. 
