Background
Urinary catheterisation is a common procedure, with approximately 15% to 25% of all people admitted to hospital receiving short‐term (14 days or less) indwelling urethral catheterisation at some point during their care. However, the use of urinary catheters is associated with an increased risk of developing urinary tract infection. Catheter‐associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) is one of the most common hospital‐acquired infections. It is estimated that around 20% of hospital‐acquired bacteraemias arise from the urinary tract and are associated with mortality of around 10%. 
This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2005 and last published in 2007. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of strategies for removing short‐term (14 days or less) indwelling catheters in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Specialised Register, which contains trials identified from CENTRAL, MEDLINE, MEDLINE In‐Process, MEDLINE Epub Ahead of Print, CINAHL, ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP, and handsearching of journals and conference proceedings (searched 17 March 2020), and reference lists of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs that evaluated the effectiveness of practices undertaken for the removal of short‐term indwelling urethral catheters in adults for any reason in any setting. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors performed abstract and full‐text screening of all relevant articles. At least two review authors independently performed risk of bias assessment, data abstraction and GRADE assessment. 
Main results
We included 99 trials involving 12,241 participants. We judged the majority of trials to be at low or unclear risk of selection and detection bias, with a high risk of performance bias. We also deemed most trials to be at low risk of attrition and reporting bias. None of the trials reported on quality of life. The majority of participants across the trials had undergone some form of surgical procedure. 
Thirteen trials involving 1506 participants compared the removal of short‐term indwelling urethral catheters at one time of day (early morning removal group between 6 am to 7 am) versus another (late night removal group between 10 pm to midnight). Catheter removal late at night may slightly reduce the risk of requiring recatheterisation compared with early morning (RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.96; 10 RCTs, 1920 participants; low‐certainty evidence). We are uncertain if there is any difference between early morning and late night removal in the risk of developing symptomatic CAUTI (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.61 to 1.63; 1 RCT, 41 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether the time of day makes a difference to the risk of dysuria (RR 2.20; 95% CI 0.70 to 6.86; 1 RCT, 170 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
