Background
In the absence of treatment, endometrial hyperplasia (EH) can progress to endometrial cancer, particularly in the presence of histologic nuclear atypia. The development of EH results from exposure of the endometrium to oestrogen unopposed by progesterone. Oral progestogens have been used as treatment for EH without atypia, and in some cases of EH with atypia in women who wish to preserve fertility or who cannot tolerate surgery. EH without atypia is associated with a low risk of progression to atypia and cancer; EH with atypia is where the cells are structurally abnormal, and has a higher risk of developing cancer. Oral progestogen is not always effective at reversing the hyperplasia, can be associated with side effects, and depends on patient adherence. The levonorgestrel‐intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) is an alternative method of administration of progestogen and may have some advantages over non‐intrauterine progestogens. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of the levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) in women with endometrial hyperplasia (EH) with or without atypia compared to medical treatment with non‐intrauterine progestogens, placebo, surgery or no treatment. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group (CGF) Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and PsycINFO, and conference proceedings of 10 relevant organisations. We handsearched references in relevant published studies. We also searched ongoing trials in ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry, and other trial registries. We performed the final search in May 2020. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and cross‐over trials of women with a histological diagnosis of endometrial hyperplasia with or without atypia comparing LNG‐IUS with non‐intrauterine progestogens, placebo, surgery or no treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction. Our primary outcome measures were regression of EH and adverse effects associated with the LNG‐IUS device (such as pelvic inflammatory disease, device expulsion, uterine perforation) when compared to treatment with non‐intrauterine progestogens, placebo, surgery or no treatment. Secondary outcomes included hysterectomy, hormone‐related adverse effects (such as bleeding/spotting, pelvic pain, breast tenderness, ovarian cysts, weight gain, acne), withdrawal from treatment due to adverse effects, satisfaction with treatment, and cost or resource use. We rated the overall quality of evidence using GRADE methods. 
Main results
Thirteen RCTs (1657 women aged 22 to 75 years) met the inclusion criteria. Two studies had insufficient data for meta‐analysis, thus the quantitative analysis included 11 RCTs. All trials evaluated treatment duration of six months or less. The evidence ranged from very low to moderate quality: the main limitations were risk of bias (associated with lack of blinding and poor reporting of study methods), inconsistency and imprecision. 
LNG‐IUS versus non‐intrauterine progestogens 
Primary outcomes  
Regression of endometrial hyperplasia 
The LNG‐IUS probably improves regression of EH compared with non‐intrauterine progestogens at short‐term follow‐up (up to six months) (OR 2.94, 95% CI 2.10 to 4.13; I² = 0%; 10 RCTs, 1108 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). This suggests that if regression of EH following treatment with a non‐intrauterine progestogen is assumed to be 72%, regression of EH following treatment with LNG‐IUS would be between 85% and 92%. Regression of EH may be improved by LNG‐IUS compared with non‐intrauterine progestogens at long‐term follow‐up (12 months) (OR 3.80, 95% CI 1.75 to 8.23; 1 RCT, 138 participants; low‐quality evidence), 
