Background
Between 40% and 70% of people with treatment‐resistant schizophrenia do not respond to clozapine, despite adequate blood levels. For these people, a number of treatment strategies have emerged, including the prescription of a second anti‐psychotic drug in combination with clozapine. 
Objectives
To determine the clinical effects of various clozapine combination strategies with antipsychotic drugs in people with treatment‐resistant schizophrenia both in terms of efficacy and tolerability. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's Study‐Based Register of Trials (to 28 August 2015) and MEDLINE (November 2008). We checked the reference lists of all identified randomised controlled trials (RCT). For the first version of the review, we also contacted pharmaceutical companies to identify further trials. 
Selection criteria
We included only RCTs recruiting people of both sexes, aged 18 years or more, with a diagnosis of treatment‐resistant schizophrenia (or related disorders) and comparing clozapine plus another antipsychotic drug with clozapine plus a different antipsychotic drug. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data independently. For dichotomous data, we calculated risk ratios (RRs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) on an intention‐to‐treat basis using a random‐effects meta‐analysis. For continuous data, we calculated mean differences (MD) and 95% CIs. We used GRADE to create 'Summary of findings' tables and assessed risk of bias for included studies. 
Main results
We identified two further studies with 169 participants that met our inclusion criteria. This review now includes five studies with 309 participants. The quality of evidence was low, and, due to the high degree of heterogeneity between studies, we were unable to undertake a formal meta‐analysis to increase the statistical power. 
For this update, we specified seven main outcomes of interest: clinical response in mental state (clinically significant response, mean score/change in mental state), clinical response in global state (mean score/change in global state), weight gain, leaving the study early (acceptability of treatment), service utilisation outcomes (hospital days or admissions to hospital) and quality of life. 
