Background
Aerosols and spatter are generated in a dental clinic during aerosol‐generating procedures (AGPs) that use high‐speed hand pieces. Dental healthcare providers can be at increased risk of transmission of diseases such as tuberculosis, measles and severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) through droplets on mucosae, inhalation of aerosols or through fomites on mucosae, which harbour micro‐organisms. There are ways to mitigate and contain spatter and aerosols that may, in turn, reduce any risk of disease transmission. In addition to personal protective equipment (PPE) and aerosol‐reducing devices such as high‐volume suction, it has been hypothesised that the use of mouth rinse by patients before dental procedures could reduce the microbial load of aerosols that are generated during dental AGPs. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of preprocedural mouth rinses used in dental clinics to minimise incidence of infection in dental healthcare providers and reduce or neutralise contamination in aerosols. 
Search methods
We used standard, extensive Cochrane search methods. The latest search date was 4 February 2022. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials and excluded laboratory‐based studies. Study participants were dental patients undergoing AGPs. Studies compared any preprocedural mouth rinse used to reduce contaminated aerosols versus placebo, no mouth rinse or another mouth rinse. Our primary outcome was incidence of infection of dental healthcare providers and secondary outcomes were reduction in the level of contamination of the dental operatory environment, cost, change in mouth microbiota, adverse events, and acceptability and feasibility of the intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened search results, extracted data from included studies, assessed the risk of bias in the studies and judged the certainty of the available evidence. We used mean differences (MDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) as the effect estimate for continuous outcomes, and random‐effects meta‐analysis to combine data  
Main results
 We included 17 studies with 830 participants aged 18 to 70 years. We judged three trials at high risk of bias, two at low risk and 12 at unclear risk of bias.  
None of the studies measured our primary outcome of the incidence of infection in dental healthcare providers.  
The primary outcome in the studies was reduction in the level of bacterial contamination measured in colony‐forming units (CFUs) at distances of less than 2 m (intended to capture larger droplets) and 2 m or more (to capture droplet nuclei from aerosols arising from the participant's oral cavity). It is unclear what size of CFU reduction represents a clinically significant amount. 
There is low‐ to very low‐certainty evidence that chlorhexidine (CHX) may reduce bacterial contamination, as measured by CFUs, compared with no rinsing or rinsing with water. There were similar results when comparing cetylpyridinium chloride (CPC) with no rinsing and when comparing CPC, essential oils/herbal mouthwashes or boric acid with water. There is very low‐certainty evidence that tempered mouth rinses may provide a greater reduction in CFUs than cold mouth rinses. There is low‐certainty evidence that CHX may reduce CFUs more than essential oils/herbal mouthwashes. The evidence for other head‐to‐head comparisons was limited and inconsistent.  
