Background
This is the second update of a review originally published in 2017. Starting with one drug and with a combination of two drugs are strategies suggested in clinical guidelines as initial treatment for hypertension. The recommendations are not based on evidence about clinically relevant outcomes. Some antihypertensive combinations have been shown to be harmful. The actual harm‐to‐benefit balance of each strategy is unknown. 
Objectives
To determine if there are differences in clinical outcomes between monotherapy and combination therapy as initial treatment for primary hypertension. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomised controlled trials up to March 2021: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (from 1946), and Embase (from 1974). The World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and the US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register (ClinicalTrials.gov) were searched for ongoing trials. We also contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. We used no language restrictions. We also searched clinical studies repositories of pharmaceutical companies, reviews of combination drugs on the US Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency websites, and lists of references in reviews and clinical practice guidelines. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised, double‐blind trials with at least 12 months' follow‐up in adults with primary hypertension (systolic blood pressure/diastolic blood pressure 140/90 mmHg or higher, or 130/80 mmHg or higher if participants had diabetes), which compared a combination of two first‐line antihypertensive drugs with monotherapy as initial treatment. Trials had to include at least 50 participants per group and report mortality, cardiovascular mortality, cardiovascular events, or serious adverse events. 
