Background
Preterm birth represents the single largest cause of mortality and morbidity for newborns and a major cause of morbidity for pregnant women. Tocolytic agents include a wide range of drugs that can inhibit labour to prolong pregnancy. This may gain time to allow the fetus to mature further before being born, permit antenatal corticosteroid administration for lung maturation, and allow time for intra‐uterine transfer to a hospital with neonatal intensive care facilities. However, some tocolytic drugs are associated with severe side effects. Combinations of tocolytic drugs may be more effective over single tocolytic agents or no intervention, without adversely affecting the mother or neonate. 
Objectives
To assess the effects on maternal, fetal and neonatal outcomes of any combination of tocolytic drugs for the treatment of preterm labour when compared with any other treatment, no treatment or placebo. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 January 2014) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing a combination of tocolytic agents, administered by any route or any dose, for inhibiting preterm labour versus any other treatment (including other combinations of tocolytics or single tocolytics), no intervention or placebo. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study reports for eligibility, carried out data extraction and assessed risk of bias. 
Main results
Eleven studies met our inclusion criteria. Two studies did not report any outcome data relevant to the review, so the results of the review are based on nine trials that contributed data. Primary outcomes were perinatal mortality, serious maternal or infant outcomes, adverse drug reactions, birth before 48 hours of trial entry, birth before 34 weeks' gestation and preterm neonates delivered without a full course of antenatal steroids completed 24 hours before birth. The quality of evidence in included trials was mixed; only three of the trials were placebo controlled. 
The included trials examined seven different comparisons: intravenous (IV) ritodrine plus oral or IV magnesium (sulphate or gluconate) versus IV ritodrine alone (three trials, 231 women); IV ritodrine plus indomethacin suppositories versus IV ritodrine alone (one trial, 208 women); IV ritodrine plus vaginal progesterone versus IV ritodrine alone (one trial, 83 women); IV hexoprenaline sulphate plus IV magnesium hydrochloride versus IV hexoprenaline sulphate alone (one trial, 24 women); IV fenoterol plus oral naproxen versus IV fenoterol alone (one trial, 72 women); oral pentoxifylline plus IV magnesium sulphate plus IV fenoterol versus IV magnesium sulphate plus IV fenoterol (one trial, 125 women); and, IV terbutaline plus oral metoprolol versus IV terbutaline alone (one trial, 17 women). Few studies with small numbers of women were available for each comparison, hence very little data were pooled in meta‐analysis. In all trials, not many of the primary outcomes were reported. 
