Background
Intermittent preventive treatment is recommended for pregnant women living in malaria endemic countries due to benefits for both mother and baby. However, the impact may not be the same in HIV‐positive pregnant women, as HIV infection impairs a woman's immunity. 
Objectives
To compare intermittent preventive treatment regimens for malaria in HIV‐positive pregnant women living in malaria‐endemic areas. 
Search methods
In June 2011, we searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE; EMBASE; LILACS, the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT), reference lists and conference abstracts. We also contacted researchers and organizations for information on relevant trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials comparing different intermittent preventive treatment regimens for preventing malaria in HIV‐positive pregnant women in malaria‐endemic areas. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors extracted data and assessed risk bias. Dichotomous variables were combined using risk ratios (RR) and mean differences (MD) for continuous outcomes, both with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
Two randomized trials were included, enrolling 722 HIV‐positive pregnant women from Malawi and Zambia. Both compared monthly regimens of sulfadoxine‐pyrimethamine (SP) to the standard 2‐dose regimen given in the second and third trimesters. 
In women in their first or second pregnancy, monthly SP may reduce both maternal parasitaemia (two trials, 463 participants, RR 0.25, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.43, low quality evidence), and placental parasitaemia at delivery (two trials, 459 participants, RR 0.38, 95% CI 0.21 to 0.70, low quality evidence). Monthly SP may have a small effect on the prevalence of maternal anaemia at delivery (two trials, 447 participants, RR 0.93, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.20, low quality evidence), and the number of babies born with low birth weight (two trials, 469 participants, RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.52 to 1.23, low quality evidence), but larger trials are necessary to reliably prove or exclude clinically important benefits on these outcomes. There is currently insufficient evidence to make conclusions regarding an effect on neonatal mortality (one study, 253 participants, very low quality evidence). 
In women in their third or higher pregnancy, there is insufficient evidence to make any conclusions on the benefits of monthly SP compared to the two dose regimen (one trial, 166 participants, very low quality evidence). 
There were no trials that assessed other treatment regimens for intermittent preventive treatment in HIV‐positive pregnant women. 
Authors' conclusions
Three or more doses of SP may have some advantages over the standard two doses in HIV‐positive pregnant women, but larger trials would be necessary to confirm an effect on patient important outcomes. However, since SP cannot be administered concurrently with co‐trimoxazole ‐ a drug often recommended for infection prophylaxis in HIV‐positive pregnant women, new drugs and research is needed to address needs of HIV‐positive pregnant women. 
