Background
Nutritional interventions to prevent stunting of infants and young children are most often applied in rural areas in low‐ and middle‐income countries (LMIC). Few interventions are focused on urban slums. The literature needs a systematic assessment, as infants and children living in slums are at high risk of stunting. Urban slums are complex environments in terms of biological, social, and political variables and the outcomes of nutritional interventions need to be assessed in relation to these variables. For the purposes of this review, we followed the UN‐Habitat 2004 definitions for low‐income informal settlements or slums as lacking one or more indicators of basic services or infrastructure. 
Objectives
To assess the impact of nutritional interventions to reduce stunting in infants and children under five years old in urban slums from LMIC and the effect of nutritional interventions on other nutritional (wasting and underweight) and non‐nutritional outcomes (socioeconomic, health and developmental) in addition to stunting. 
Search methods
The review used a sensitive search strategy of electronic databases, bibliographies of articles, conference proceedings, websites, grey literature, and contact with experts and authors published from 1990. We searched 32 databases, in English and non‐English languages (MEDLINE, CENTRAL, Web of Science, Ovid MEDLINE, etc). We performed the initial literature search from November 2015 to January 2016, and conducted top up searches in March 2017 and in August 2018. 
Selection criteria
Research designs included randomised (including cluster‐randomised) trials, quasi‐randomised trials, non‐randomised controlled trials, controlled before‐and‐after studies, pre‐ and postintervention, interrupted time series (ITS), and historically controlled studies among infants and children from LMIC, from birth to 59 months, living in urban slums. The interventions included were nutrition‐specific or maternal education. The primary outcomes were length or height expressed in cm or length‐for‐age (LFA)/height‐for‐age (HFA) z‐scores, and birth weight in grams or presence/absence of low birth weight (LBW). 
