Background
Smooth muscle tumour (SMT) composed of leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma recently has been described in many HIV‐infected children. Leiomyosarcoma has become the second most frequent malignancy in children with HIV infection or other immunodeficiency diseases in the United States. Although leiomyosarcoma accounts for only 2% to 4% of childhood soft tissue sarcomas, the prognosis is poor in HIV‐infected compared with non‐infected patients. The development of Epstein‐Barr virus (EBV)‐associated SMT in children with acquired immunodeficiency virus (AIDS) decreases health, reduces quality of life, and often results in death. Some researchers, therefore, ascribe cause of death to SMT in the majority of these cases, not to AIDS. Currently, the optimal therapeutic strategy is controversial and there is a need to identify the efficacy and safety of different interventions for AIDS‐associated SMT on overall survival and disease‐free survival in children. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of current therapeutic interventions for previously untreated children with AIDS‐associated leiomyoma and leiomyosarcoma 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases by subject headings and text words:
Cochrane HIV/AIDS Group trials register (November 2009); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials on Cochrane Library (Issue 4, 2009); MEDLINE (January 1966 to November 2009); EMBASE (January 1985 to November 2009); NLMGateway database and AEGIS; Chinese Biomedical Disc (CBMDisc 1978 to November 2009); VIP (1989 to present); and China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI 1994 to 2009). We also searched physicians data query protocols, proceedings, and abstracts from AIDS and cancer conferences, and the reference lists from identified trials for unidentified trials to discover any unpublished or currently on‐going relevant trials. All the trials were searched by comprehensive electronic databases or hand searching. The search was not limited by language. 
Selection criteria
We searched for published or unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or controlled clinical trials (CCTs) of therapy for leiomyosarcoma and leiomyoma in children with AIDS. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors screened the results of the search independently to select relevant studies. The full text of all potentially relevant studies was retrieved and the qualities were assessed by the two authors using predetermined criteria. No eligible RCTs or CCTs were identified. 
