Background
Pharmacotherapies such as loop diuretics are the cornerstone treatment for acute heart failure (AHF), but resistance and poor response can occur. Ultrafiltration (UF) is an alternative therapy to reduce congestion, however its benefits, efficacy and safety are unclear. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of UF compared to diuretic therapy on clinical outcomes such as mortality and rehospitalisation rates. 
Search methods
We undertook a systematic search in June 2021 of the following databases: CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science CPCI‐S and ClinicalTrials.gov. We also searched the WHO ICTRP platform in October 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared UF to diuretics in adults with AHF. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. We contacted study authors for any further information, and language interpreters to translate texts. We assessed risk of bias in included studies using Risk of Bias 2 (RoB2) tool and assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We included 14 trials involving 1190 people. We included people who had clinical signs of acute hypervolaemia. We excluded critically unwell people such as those with ischaemia or haemodynamic instability. Mean age ranged from 57.5 to 75 years, and the setting was a mix of single and multi‐centre. Two trials researched UF as a complimentary therapy to diuretics, while the remaining trials withheld diuretic use during UF. There was high risk of bias in some studies, particularly with deviations from the intended protocols from high cross‐overs as well as missing outcome data for long‐term follow‐up.  
We are uncertain about the effect of UF on all‐cause mortality at 30 days or less (risk ratio (RR) 0.61, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.13 to 2.85; 3 studies, 286 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). UF may have little to no effect on all‐cause mortality at the longest available follow‐up (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.73 to 1.36; 9 studies, 987 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
