Background
Automated systems use closed‐loop control to enable ventilators to perform basic and advanced functions while supporting respiration. SmartCare™ is a unique automated weaning system that measures selected respiratory variables, adapts ventilator output to individual patient needs by operationalizing predetermined algorithms and automatically conducts spontaneous breathing trials (SBTs) when predetermined thresholds are met. 
Objectives
The primary objective of this review was to compare weaning time (time from randomization to extubation as defined by study authors) between invasively ventilated critically ill adults weaned by automated weaning and SBT systems versus non‐automated weaning strategies. 
As secondary objectives, we ascertained differences between effects of alternative weaning strategies on clinical outcomes (time to successful extubation, time to first SBT and first successful SBT, mortality, ventilator‐associated pneumonia, total duration of ventilation, lengths of intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stay, use of non‐invasive ventilation (NIV), adverse events and clinician acceptance). 
The third objective of our review was to use subgroup analyses to explore variations in weaning time, length of ICU stay, mortality, ventilator‐associated pneumonia, use of NIV and reintubation according to (1) the type of clinician primarily involved in implementing the automated weaning and SBT strategy, (2) the ICU (as a reflection of the population involved) and (3) the non‐automated (control) weaning strategy utilized. 
We conducted a sensitivity analysis to evaluate variations in weaning time based on (4) the methodological quality (low or unclear versus high risk of bias) of the included studies. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) 2013, Issue 5; MEDLINE (1966 to 31 May 2013); EMBASE (1988 to 31 May 2013); the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (1982 to 31 May 2013), Evidence‐Based Medicine Reviews and Ovid HealthSTAR (1999 to 31 May 2013), as well as conference proceedings and trial registration websites; we also contacted study authors and content experts to identify potentially eligible trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized trials comparing automated weaning and SBT systems versus non‐automated weaning strategies in intubated adults. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and abstracted data according to prespecified criteria. Sensitivity and subgroup analyses were planned to assess the impact on selected outcomes of the following: (1) the type of clinician primarily involved in implementing automated weaning and SBT systems, (2) the ICU (as a reflection of the population involved) and (3) the non‐automated (control) weaning strategy utilized. 
