Background
There are various reasons why weaning and extubation failure occur, but ineffective cough and secretion retention can play a significant role. Cough augmentation techniques, such as lung volume recruitment or manually‐ and mechanically‐assisted cough, are used to prevent and manage respiratory complications associated with chronic conditions, particularly neuromuscular disease, and may improve short‐ and long‐term outcomes for people with acute respiratory failure. However, the role of cough augmentation to facilitate extubation and prevent post‐extubation respiratory failure is unclear. 
Objectives
Our primary objective was to determine extubation success using cough augmentation techniques compared to no cough augmentation for critically‐ill adults and children with acute respiratory failure admitted to a high‐intensity care setting capable of managing mechanically‐ventilated people (such as an intensive care unit, specialized weaning centre, respiratory intermediate care unit, or high‐dependency unit). 
Secondary objectives were to determine the effect of cough augmentation techniques on reintubation, weaning success, mechanical ventilation and weaning duration, length of stay (high‐intensity care setting and hospital), pneumonia, tracheostomy placement and tracheostomy decannulation, and mortality (high‐intensity care setting, hospital, and after hospital discharge). We evaluated harms associated with use of cough augmentation techniques when applied via an artificial airway (or non‐invasive mask once extubated/decannulated), including haemodynamic compromise, arrhythmias, pneumothorax, haemoptysis, and mucus plugging requiring airway change and the type of person (such as those with neuromuscular disorders or weakness and spinal cord injury) for whom these techniques may be efficacious. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; Issue 4, 2016), MEDLINE (OvidSP) (1946 to April 2016), Embase (OvidSP) (1980 to April 2016), CINAHL (EBSCOhost) (1982 to April 2016), and ISI Web of Science and Conference Proceedings. We searched the PROSPERO and Joanna Briggs Institute databases, websites of relevant professional societies, and conference abstracts from five professional society annual congresses (2011 to 2015). We did not impose language or other restrictions. We performed a citation search using PubMed and examined reference lists of relevant studies and reviews. We contacted corresponding authors for details of additional published or unpublished work. We searched for unpublished studies and ongoing trials on the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (apps.who.int/trialsearch) (April 2016). 
