Background
Post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS) is a long‐term complication of deep venous thrombosis (DVT) that is characterised by pain, swelling, and skin changes in the affected limb. One in three patients with DVT will develop post‐thrombotic sequelae within five years. The current standard care for the prevention of PTS following DVT is elastic compression stockings. Rutosides are a group of compounds derived from horse chestnut (Aesculus hippocastanum), a traditional herbal remedy for treating oedema formation in chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). However, it is not known whether rutosides are effective and safe in the prevention of PTS. This is the second update of the review first published in 2013. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of rutosides for prevention of post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS) in patients with deep vein thrombosis (DVT), compared to placebo, no intervention, or reference medication. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL databases and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 21 August 2018. 
Selection criteria
We planned to include trials of rutosides versus any alternative (placebo, no intervention, or reference medication) in the prevention of PTS in patients with DVT. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion and intended to extract information from the trials. 
Main results
No studies were identified comparing rutosides versus any alternative in the prevention of PTS. 
Authors' conclusions
As there were no studies identified in this review there is currently insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness and safety of rutosides for prevention of PTS in patients with DVT. Some studies suggest that rutosides may provide short‐term relief of PTS symptoms. However, there is nothing published on their use as a preventative therapy for PTS. High quality randomised controlled trials of rutoside versus any alternative are required to build the evidence base in this area. 
