Background
People with urothelial carcinoma of the bladder are at risk for recurrence and progression following transurethral resection of a bladder tumour (TURBT). Mitomycin C (MMC) and Bacillus Calmette‐Guérin (BCG) are commonly used, competing forms of intravesical therapy for intermediate‐ or high‐risk non‐muscle invasive (Ta and T1) urothelial bladder cancer but their relative merits are somewhat uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of BCG intravesical therapy compared to MMC intravesical therapy for treating intermediate‐ and high‐risk Ta and T1 bladder cancer in adults. 
Search methods
We performed a systematic literature search in multiple databases (CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, Scopus, LILACS), as well as in two clinical trial registries. We searched reference lists of relevant publications and abstract proceedings. We applied no language restrictions. The latest search was conducted in September 2019. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared intravesical BCG with intravesical MMC therapy for non‐muscle invasive urothelial bladder cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened the literature, extracted data, assessed risk of bias and rated the quality of evidence according to GRADE per outcome. In the meta‐analyses, we used the random‐effects model. 
Main results
We identified 12 RCTs comparing BCG versus MMC in participants with intermediate‐ and high‐risk non‐muscle invasive bladder tumours (published from 1995 to 2013). In total, 2932 participants were randomised. 
Time to death from any cause: BCG may make little or no difference on time to death from any cause compared to MMC (hazard ratio (HR) 0.97, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.79 to 1.20; participants = 1132, studies = 5; 567 participants in the BCG arm and 565 in the MMC arm; low‐certainty evidence). This corresponds to 6 fewer deaths (40 fewer to 36 more) per 1000 participants treated with BCG at five years. We downgraded the certainty of the evidence two levels due to study limitations and imprecision. 
