Background
This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in The Cochrane Library in Issue 4, 2007. 
Poor voice quality due to a voice disorder can lead to a reduced quality of life. In occupations where voice use is substantial it can lead to periods of absence from work. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions to prevent voice disorders in adults.
Search methods
We searched databases including CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PsycINFO and OSH Update to March 2010. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled clinical trials (RCTs) evaluating interventions for preventing voice disorders in adults. For work‐directed interventions, interrupted time‐series and prospective cohort studies were also eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted data and assessed trial risk of bias. We performed meta‐analysis where appropriate. 
Main results
We identified six randomised controlled trials including a total of 262 participants. Four studies were conducted with primary school or kindergarten teachers, one with student teachers and one with telemarketers. 
Three studies found similar self‐reported vocal symptoms between those who attended direct voice training and those who were in a no intervention control group (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.27; 95% CI ‐0.12 to 0.66). 
Two studies found similar self‐reported vocal symptoms between those who attended indirect voice training and those who were in a no intervention control group (SMD 0.44; 95% CI ‐0.03 to 0.92). 
One study found similar scores on the Voice Handicap Index for those who had direct and indirect voice training combined and for those who had no intervention. Two studies compared a combination of direct and indirect voice training with indirect voice training only. Both studies found similar scores for self‐reported phonation difficulty (mean difference ‐5.55; 95% CI ‐23.75 to 12.66) in both groups. 
The evidence for all comparisons was rated as low quality.
No work‐directed studies were found. No studies evaluated the effectiveness of prevention in terms of sick leave or number of diagnosed voice disorders. 
Authors' conclusions
We found no evidence that either direct or indirect voice training or the two combined are effective in improving self‐reported vocal functioning when compared to no intervention. The current practice of giving training to at‐risk populations for preventing the development of voice disorders is therefore not supported by definitive evidence of effectiveness. Larger and methodologically better trials are needed with outcome measures that better reflect the aims of interventions. 
