Background
Cerebral palsy is a disorder of movement and posture arising from a non‐progressive lesion in the developing brain. Spasticity, a disorder of increased muscle tone, is the most common motor difficulty and is associated with activity limitation to varying degrees in mobility and self care. 
Oral baclofen, a gamma‐aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist, has been used in oral form to treat spasticity for some time, but it has a variable effect on spasticity and the dose is limited by the unwanted effect of excessive sedation. Intrathecal baclofen produces higher local concentrations in cerebrospinal fluid at a fraction of the equivalent oral dose and avoids this excessive sedation. 
Objectives
To determine whether intrathecal baclofen is an effective treatment for spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL databases, handsearched recent conference proceedings, and communicated with researchers in the field and pharmaceutical and drug delivery system companies. 
Selection criteria
We included studies which compared the effect of intrathecal baclofen treatment on spasticity, gross motor function or other areas of function with controls. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors selected studies, two authors extracted data and two authors assessed the methodological quality of included studies. 
Main results
Six studies met the inclusion criteria. The data obtained were unsuitable for the conduct of a meta‐analysis; we have completed a qualitative summary. 
All studies were found to have high or unclear risk of bias in some aspects of their methodology. 
Five of the six studies reported data collected in the randomised controlled phase of the study. A sixth study did not report sufficient results to determine the effect of intrathecal baclofen versus placebo. Of these five studies, four were conducted using lumbar puncture or other short‐term means of delivering intrathecal baclofen. One study assessed the effectiveness of implantable intrathecal baclofen pumps over six months. 
The four short‐term studies demonstrated that intrathecal baclofen therapy reduces spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. However, two of these studies utilised inappropriate techniques for statistical analysis of results. The single longer‐term study demonstrated minimal reduction in spasticity with the use of intrathecal baclofen therapy. 
One of the short‐term studies and the longer term study showed improvement in comfort and ease of care. The longer term study found a small improvement in gross motor function and also in some domains of health‐related quality of life. 
Some caution is required in interpreting the findings of the all the studies in the review due to methodological issues. In particular, there was a high risk of bias in the methodology of the longer term study due to the lack of placebo use in the control group and the absence of blinding to the intervention after randomisation for both participants and investigators. 
Authors' conclusions
There is some limited short‐term evidence that intrathecal baclofen is an effective therapy for reducing spasticity in children with cerebral palsy. The effect of intrathecal baclofen on long‐term spasticity outcomes is less certain. 
The validity of the evidence for the effectiveness of intrathecal baclofen in treating spasticity in children with cerebral palsy from the studies in the review is constrained by the small sample sizes of the studies and methodological issues in some studies. 
Spasticity is a impairment in the domain of body structure and function. Consideration must also be given to the broader context in determining whether intrathecal baclofen therapy is effective. The aim of therapy may be, for example, to improve gross motor function, to increase participation at a social role level, to improve comfort, to improve the ease of care by others or to improve the overall quality of life of the individual. Intrathecal baclofen may improve gross motor function in children with cerebral palsy, but more reliable evidence is needed to determine this.There is some evidence that intrathecal baclofen improves ease of care and the comfort and quality of life of the individuals receiving it, but again small sample sizes and methodological issues in the studies mean that these results should be interpreted with caution. 
