Background
Injuries are a significant public health burden and alcohol intoxication is recognised as a risk factor for injuries. Increasing attention is being paid to supply‐side interventions that aim to modify the environment and context within which alcohol is supplied and consumed. 
Objectives
To quantify the effectiveness of interventions implemented in the server setting for reducing injuries. 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases to November 2008; Cochrane Injuries Group's Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, PsycEXTRA, ISI Web of Science, Conference Proceedings Citation Index ‐ Science, TRANSPORT and ETOH. We also searched reference lists of articles and contacted experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), non‐randomised controlled trials (NRTs) and controlled before and after studies (CBAs) of the effects of interventions administered in the server setting that attempted to modify the conditions under which alcohol is served and consumed, to facilitate sensible alcohol consumption and reduce the occurrence of alcohol‐related harm. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened search results and assessed the full texts of potentially relevant studies for inclusion. Data were extracted and methodological quality was examined. Due to variability in the types of interventions investigated, a pooled analysis was not appropriate. 
Main results
Twenty‐three studies met the inclusion criteria. Overall methodological quality was poor. Five studies used an injury outcome measure; one of these studies was randomised, the remaining four where CBA studies. 
The RCT targeting the alcohol server setting environment with an injury outcome compared the introduction of toughened glassware (experimental) to annealed glassware (control) on the number of bar staff injuries; a greater number of injuries were detected in the experimental group (relative risk 1.72, 95% CI 1.15 to 2.59). 
One CBA study investigated server training and estimated a reduction of 23% in single‐vehicle, night‐time crashes in the experimental area (controlled for crashes in the control area). Another CBA study examined the impact of a drink driving service, and reported a reduction in injury road crashes of 15% in the experimental area, with no change in the control; no difference was found for fatal crashes. In a CBA study investigating the impact of an intervention aiming to reduce crime in drinking premises, the study authors found a lower rate of all crime in the experimental premises (rate ratio 4.6, 95% CI 1.7 to 12, P = 0.01); no difference was found for injury (rate ratio 1.1 95% CI 0.1 to 10, P = 0.093). A CBA study investigating the impact of a policy intervention reported that pre‐intervention the serious assault rate in the experimental area was 52% higher than the rate in the control area. After intervention, the serious assault rate in the experimental area was 37% lower than in the control area. 
