Background
Chronic limb‐threatening ischaemia (CLTI) is a manifestation of peripheral arterial disease (PAD) that includes chronic ischaemic rest pain or ischaemic skin lesions, ulcers, or gangrene for longer than two weeks. The severity of the disease depends on the extent of arterial stenosis and the availability of collateral circulation. Treatment for CLTI aims to relieve ischaemic pain, heal ischaemic ulcers, prevent limb loss, improve quality of life, and prolong survival. CLTI due to occlusive disease in the infrapopliteal arterial circulation (below‐knee circulation) can be treated via an endovascular technique by a balloon opening the narrowed vessel, so called angioplasty, with or without the additional deployment of a scaffold made of metal alloy or other material, so called stenting. Endovascular interventions in the infrapopliteal vasculature may improve symptoms in patients with CLTI by re‐establishing in‐line blood flow to the foot. Controversy remains as to whether a balloon should be used alone to open the vessel, or whether a stent should also be deployed. 
Objectives
To determine the efficacy and safety of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) alone versus PTA with stenting of infrapopliteal arterial lesions (anterior tibial artery, posterior tibial artery, fibular artery (formerly known as peroneal artery), and common tibioperoneal trunk) for patients with chronic limb‐threatening ischaemia (CLTI). 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and AMED databases, as well as World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 25 June 2018. We applied no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We planned to include randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing PTA versus PTA with a stent and including patients aged 18 years or over with CLTI. We defined CLTI as Fontaine stage III (ischaemic rest pain) and IV (ischaemic ulcers or gangrene) or consistent with Rutherford category 4 (ischaemic rest pain), 5 (minor tissue loss), and 6 (major tissue loss), with stenotic (> 50% luminal loss) or occluded infrapopliteal artery, including tibiofibular trunk, anterior tibial artery, posterior tibial artery, and fibular artery. We included all types of stents irrespective of design (e.g. bare‐metal, drug‐eluting, bio‐absorbable). 
