Background
Suicide is a leading cause of death among post‐secondary students worldwide. Suicidal thoughts and planning are common among post‐secondary students. Previous reviews have examined the effectiveness of interventions for symptomatic individuals; however, many students at high risk of suicide are undiagnosed and untreated. 
Objectives
We evaluated the effect on suicide and suicide‐related outcomes of primary suicide prevention interventions that targeted students within the post‐secondary setting. 
Search methods
We searched the following sources up to June 2011: Specialised Registers of two Cochrane Groups, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, and nine other databases, trial registers, conference proceedings, and websites of national and international organizations. We screened reference lists and contacted authors of included studies to identify additional studies. We updated the search in November 2013; we will include these results in the review's next update. 
Selection criteria
We included studies that tested an intervention for the primary prevention of suicide using a randomized controlled trial (RCT), controlled before‐and‐after (CBA), controlled interrupted time series (CITS), or interrupted time series (ITS) study design. Interventions targeted students within the post‐secondary setting (i.e. college, university, academy, vocational, or any other post‐secondary educational institution) without known mental illness, previous suicide attempt or self‐harm, or suicidal ideation. Outcomes included suicides, suicide attempts, suicidal ideation, changes in suicide‐related knowledge, attitudes and behavior, and availability of means of suicide. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standardized electronic forms for data extraction, risk of bias and quality of evidence determination, and analysis. We estimated standardised mean differences (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We analysed studies by intervention type and study design. We summarized RCT effect sizes using random‐effects models meta‐analyses; and analysed statistical heterogeneity using the Chi2 test and I2 statistic. We described narratively the results from studies that used other study designs. 
