Background
Urinary catheterisation (by the urethral or suprapubic routes) is common following urogenital surgery. There is no consensus on how to minimize complications and practice varies. 
Objectives
To establish the optimal way to manage urinary catheters following urogenital surgery in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group specialised trials register (searched 30 May 2005) and the reference lists of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised trials were identified. Studies were excluded if they were not randomised or quasi‐randomised trials of adults being catheterised following urogenital surgery. 
Data collection and analysis
Data collection was performed independently by two of the review authors and cross‐checked. Where data might have been collected but not reported, clarification was sought from the trialists. 
Main results
Thirty nine randomised trials were identified for inclusion in the review. They were generally small and of poor or moderate quality reporting data on only few outcomes. Confidence intervals were all wide. 
Using a urinary catheter versus not using one  The data from five trials were heterogeneous but tended to indicate a higher risk of (re)catheterisation if a catheter was not used postoperatively. The data gave only an imprecise estimate of any difference in urinary tract infection. 
Urethral catheterisation versus suprapubic catheterisation  In six trials, a greater number of people needed to be recatheterised if a urethral catheter rather than a suprapubic one was used following surgery (RR 3.66, 95% CI 1.41 to 9.49). 
Shorter postoperative duration of catheter use versus longer duration  In 11 trials, the seven trials with data suggested fewer urinary tract infections when a catheter was removed earlier (for example 1 versus 3 days, RR 0.50, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.87) with no pattern in respect of catheterisation.   Clamp and release policies before catheter removal versus immediate catheter removal  In a single small trial, the clamp‐and‐release group showed a significantly greater incidence of urinary tract infections (RR 4.00, 95% 1.55 to 10.29) and a delay in return to normal voiding (RR 2.50, 95% CI 1.16 to 5.39). 
