Background
Vitamin A deficiency is a significant public health problem in many low‐ and middle‐income countries, especially affecting young children, women of reproductive age, and pregnant women. Fortification of staple foods with vitamin A has been used to increase vitamin A consumption among these groups. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of fortifying staple foods with vitamin A for reducing vitamin A deficiency and improving health‐related outcomes in the general population older than two years of age. 
Search methods
We searched the following international databases with no language or date restrictions: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 6) in the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE and MEDLINE In Process OVID; Embase OVID; CINAHL Ebsco; Web of Science (ISI) SCI, SSCI, CPCI‐exp and CPCI‐SSH; BIOSIS (ISI); POPLINE; Bibliomap; TRoPHI; ASSIA (Proquest); IBECS; SCIELO; Global Index Medicus ‐ AFRO and EMRO; LILACS; PAHO; WHOLIS; WPRO; IMSEAR; IndMED; and Native Health Research Database. We also searched clinicaltrials.gov and the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform to identify ongoing and unpublished studies. The date of the last search was 19 July 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included individually or cluster‐randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in this review. The intervention included fortification of staple foods (sugar, edible oils, edible fats, maize flour or corn meal, wheat flour, milk and dairy products, and condiments and seasonings) with vitamin A alone or in combination with other vitamins and minerals. We included the general population older than two years of age (including pregnant and lactating women) from any country. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened and assessed eligibility of studies for inclusion, extracted data from included studies and assessed their risk of bias. We used standard Cochrane methodology to carry out the review. 
Main results
We included 10 randomised controlled trials involving 4455 participants. All the studies were conducted in low‐ and upper‐middle income countries where vitamin A deficiency was a public health issue. One of the included trials did not contribute data to the outcomes of interest. 
Three trials compared provision of staple foods fortified with vitamin A versus unfortified staple food, five trials compared provision of staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients versus unfortified staple foods, and two trials compared provision of staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients versus no intervention. No studies compared staple foods fortified with vitamin A alone versus no intervention. 
The duration of interventions ranged from three to nine months. We assessed six studies at high risk of bias overall. Government organisations, non‐governmental organisations, the private sector, and academic institutions funded the included studies; funding source does not appear to have distorted the results. 
Staple food fortified with vitamin A versus unfortified staple food 
We are uncertain whether fortifying staple foods with vitamin A alone makes little or no difference for serum retinol concentration (mean difference (MD) 0.03 μmol/L, 95% CI −0.06 to 0.12; 3 studies, 1829 participants; I² = 90%, very low‐certainty evidence). It is uncertain whether vitamin A alone reduces the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency (risk ratio (RR) 0.45, 95% CI 0.19 to 1.05; 2 studies; 993 participants; I² = 33%, very low‐certainty evidence). The certainty of the evidence was mainly affected by risk of bias, imprecision and inconsistency. 
It is uncertain whether vitamin A fortification reduces clinical vitamin A deficiency, defined as night blindness (RR 0.11, 95% CI 0.01 to 1.98; 1 study, 581 participants, very low‐certainty evidence). The certainty of the evidence was mainly affected by imprecision, inconsistency, and risk of bias. 
Staple foods fortified with vitamin A versus no intervention 
No studies provided data for this comparison.
Staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients versus same unfortified staple foods 
Fortifying staple foods with vitamin A plus other micronutrients may not increase the serum retinol concentration (MD 0.08 μmol/L, 95% CI ‐0.06 to 0.22; 4 studies; 1009 participants; I² = 95%, low‐certainty evidence). The certainty of the evidence was mainly affected by serious inconsistency and risk of bias. 
In comparison to unfortified staple foods, fortification with vitamin A plus other micronutrients probably reduces the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency (RR 0.27, 95% CI 0.16 to 0.49; 3 studies; 923 participants; I² = 0%; moderate‐certainty evidence). The certainty of the evidence was mainly affected by serious risk of bias. 
Staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients versus no intervention 
Fortification of staple foods with vitamin A plus other micronutrients may increase serum retinol concentration (MD 0.22 μmol/L, 95% CI 0.15 to 0.30; 2 studies; 318 participants; I² = 0%; low‐certainty evidence). When compared to no intervention, it is uncertain whether the intervention reduces the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency (RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.52 to 0.98; 2 studies; 318 participants; I² = 0%; very low‐certainty evidence) . The certainty of the evidence was affected mainly by serious imprecision and risk of bias. 
No trials reported on the outcomes of all‐cause morbidity, all‐cause mortality, adverse effects, food intake, congenital anomalies (for pregnant women), or breast milk concentration (for lactating women). 
Authors' conclusions
Fortifying staple foods with vitamin A alone may make little or no difference to serum retinol concentrations or the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency. In comparison with provision of unfortified foods, provision of staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients may not increase serum retinol concentration but probably reduces the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency. 
Compared to no intervention, staple foods fortified with vitamin A plus other micronutrients may increase serum retinol concentration, although it is uncertain whether the intervention reduces the risk of subclinical vitamin A deficiency as the certainty of the evidence has been assessed as very low. 
It was not possible to estimate the effect of staple food fortification on outcomes such as mortality, morbidity, adverse effects, congenital anomalies, or breast milk vitamin A, as no trials included these outcomes. 
The type of funding source for the studies did not appear to distort the results from the analysis. 
