Background
Screening for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) in selected groups is now performed in England, the USA and Sweden. Patients with aneurysms over 55 mm in diameter are generally considered for elective surgical repair. Patients with aneurysm diameters below or equal to 55 mm (termed 'small AAAs') are managed with aneurysm surveillance as there is currently insufficient evidence to recommend surgery in these cases. As more patients are screened, there will be an increasing number of small AAAs identified. There is interest in pharmaceutical interventions (for example angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors, antibiotics, beta‐blockers, statins) which could be given to such patients to delay or reverse aneurysm expansion and reduce the need for elective surgical repair. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of medical treatment on the expansion rate of small abdominal aortic aneurysms. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co‐ordinator searched the Specialised Register (May 2012) and CENTRAL (2012, Issue 5). Clinical trials databases were searched for details of ongoing or unpublished studies. The reference lists of articles retrieved by electronic searches were searched for additional citations. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised trials in which patients with small AAAs allocated to medical treatment with the intention of retarding aneurysm expansion were compared to patients allocated to a placebo treatment, alternative medical treatment, a different regimen of the same drug or imaging surveillance alone. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias in the trials. Meta‐analyses were used when heterogeneity was considered low. The two primary outcomes were the mean difference (MD) in aneurysm diameter and the odds ratio (OR) calculated to compare the number of individuals referred to AAA surgery in each group over the trial period. 
Main results
Seven trials involving 1558 participants were included in this review; 457 were involved in four trials of antibiotic medication, and 1101 were involved in three trials of beta‐blocker medication. Five of the studies were rated at a high risk of bias. 
Individually, all of the included trials reported non‐significant differences in AAA expansion rates between their intervention and control groups. 
The two major drug groups were then analysed separately. For AAA expansion it was only possible to combine two of the antibiotic trials in a meta‐analysis. This demonstrated that roxithromycin had a small but significant protective effect (MD ‐0.86 mm; 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.57 to ‐0.14). When referral to AAA surgery was compared (including all four antibiotic trials in the meta‐analysis), non‐significantly fewer patients were referred in the intervention groups (OR 0.96; 95% CI 0.59 to 1.57) than the control groups. When only the trials reporting actual elective surgery were included in a subgroup analysis, the result remained statistically non‐significant (OR 1.17; 95% CI 0.57 to 2.42). 
For the beta‐blocker trials, when all were combined in a meta‐analysis, there was a very small, non‐significant protective effect for propranolol on AAA expansion (MD ‐0.08 mm; 95% CI ‐0.25 to 0.10), and non‐significantly fewer patients were referred to AAA surgery in the propranolol group (OR 0.74; 95% CI 0.52 to 1.05). Bronchospasm and shortness of breath were the main adverse effects from the beta‐blockers. In one trial the adverse effects were reportedly so severe that the trial was stopped early after two years. 
Authors' conclusions
There is some limited evidence that antibiotic medication may have a slight protective effect in retarding the expansion rates of small AAAs. The quality of the evidence makes it unclear whether this translates into fewer referrals to AAA surgery, owing mainly to the small sample sizes of the studies. 
