Background
Reablement, also known as restorative care, is one possible approach to home‐care services for older adults at risk of functional decline. Unlike traditional home‐care services, reablement is frequently time‐limited (usually six to 12 weeks) and aims to maximise independence by offering an intensive multidisciplinary, person‐centred and goal‐directed intervention. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of time‐limited home‐care reablement services (up to 12 weeks) for maintaining and improving the functional independence of older adults (aged 65 years or more) when compared to usual home‐care or wait‐list control group. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases with no language restrictions during April to June 2015: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE (OvidSP); Embase (OvidSP); PsycINFO (OvidSP); ERIC; Sociological Abstracts; ProQuest Dissertations and Theses; CINAHL (EBSCOhost); SIGLE (OpenGrey); AgeLine and Social Care Online. We also searched the reference lists of relevant studies and reviews as well as contacting authors in the field. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster randomised or quasi‐randomised trials of time‐limited reablement services for older adults (aged 65 years or more) delivered in their home; and incorporated a usual home‐care or wait‐list control group. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed studies for inclusion, extracted data, assessed the risk of bias of individual studies and considered quality of the evidence using GRADE. We contacted study authors for additional information where needed. 
Main results
Two studies, comparing reablement with usual home‐care services with 811 participants, met our eligibility criteria for inclusion; we also identified three potentially eligible studies, but findings were not yet available. One included study was conducted in Western Australia with 750 participants (mean age 82.29 years). The second study was conducted in Norway (61 participants; mean age 79 years). 
