Background
Dystonia is a painful and disabling disorder, characterised by painful, involuntary posturing of the affected body region(s). Deep brain stimulation is an intervention typically reserved for severe and drug‐refractory cases, although uncertainty exists regarding its efficacy, safety, and tolerability. 
Objectives
To compare the efficacy, safety, and tolerability of deep brain stimulation (DBS) versus placebo, sham intervention, or best medical care, including botulinum toxin and resective or lesional surgery, in adults with dystonia. 
Search methods
We identified studies by searching the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, three other databases, four clinical trial registries, four grey literature databases, and reference lists of included articles. We ran the last search of all elements of the search strategy, with no language restrictions, on 29 May 2018. 
Selection criteria
Double‐blind, parallel, randomised, controlled trials (RCTs) comparing DBS with sham stimulation, best medical care, or placebo in adults with dystonia. 
Data collection and analysis
Two independent review authors assessed records, selected included studies, extracted data onto a standardised (or prespecified) data extraction form, and evaluated the risk of bias. We resolved disagreements by consensus or by consulting a third review author. We conducted meta‐analyses using a random‐effects model, to estimate pooled effects and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (95% CI). We assessed the quality of the evidence with GRADE methods. The primary efficacy outcome was symptom improvement on any validated symptomatic rating scale, and the primary safety outcome was adverse events. 
Main results
We included two RCTs, enrolling a total of 102 participants. Both trials evaluated the effect of DBS on the internal globus pallidus nucleus, and assessed outcomes after three and six months of stimulation. One of the studies included participants with generalised and segmental dystonia; the other included participants with focal (cervical) dystonia. We assessed both studies at high risk for performance and for‐profit bias. One study was retrospectively registered with a clinical trial register, we judged the second at high risk of detection bias. 
