Background
Multiple studies have identified the prognostic relevance of extent of resection in the management of glioma. Different intraoperative technologies have emerged in recent years with unknown comparative efficacy in optimising extent of resection. One previous Cochrane Review provided low‐ to very low‐certainty evidence in single trial analyses and synthesis of results was not possible. The role of intraoperative technology in maximising extent of resection remains uncertain. Due to the multiple complementary technologies available, this research question is amenable to a network meta‐analysis methodological approach. 
Objectives
To establish the comparative effectiveness and risk profile of specific intraoperative imaging technologies using a network meta‐analysis and to identify cost analyses and economic evaluations as part of a brief economic commentary. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (2020, Issue 5), MEDLINE via Ovid to May week 2 2020, and Embase via Ovid to 2020 week 20. We performed backward searching of all identified studies. We handsearched two journals, Neuro‐oncology and the Journal of Neuro‐oncology from 1990 to 2019 including all conference abstracts. Finally, we contacted recognised experts in neuro‐oncology to identify any additional eligible studies and acquire information on ongoing randomised controlled trials (RCTs). 
Selection criteria
RCTs evaluating people of all ages with presumed new or recurrent glial tumours (of any location or histology) from clinical examination and imaging (computed tomography (CT) or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), or both). Additional imaging modalities (e.g. positron emission tomography, magnetic resonance spectroscopy) were not mandatory. Interventions included fluorescence‐guided surgery, intraoperative ultrasound, neuronavigation (with or without additional image processing, e.g. tractography), and intraoperative MRI. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the search results for relevance, undertook critical appraisal according to known guidelines, and extracted data using a prespecified pro forma. 
Main results
We identified four RCTs, using different intraoperative imaging technologies: intraoperative magnetic resonance imaging (iMRI) (2 trials, with 58 and 14 participants); fluorescence‐guided surgery with 5‐aminolevulinic acid (5‐ALA) (1 trial, 322 participants); and neuronavigation (1 trial, 45 participants). We identified one ongoing trial assessing iMRI with a planned sample size of 304 participants for which results are expected to be published around winter 2020. We identified no published trials for intraoperative ultrasound. 
Network meta‐analyses or traditional meta‐analyses were not appropriate due to absence of homogeneous trials across imaging technologies. Of the included trials, there was notable heterogeneity in tumour location and imaging technologies utilised in control arms. There were significant concerns regarding risk of bias in all the included studies. 
One trial of iMRI found increased extent of resection (risk ratio (RR) for incomplete resection was 0.13, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.02 to 0.96; 49 participants; very low‐certainty evidence) and one trial of 5‐ALA (RR for incomplete resection was 0.55, 95% CI 0.42 to 0.71; 270 participants; low‐certainty evidence). The other trial assessing iMRI was stopped early after an unplanned interim analysis including 14 participants; therefore, the trial provided very low‐quality evidence. The trial of neuronavigation provided insufficient data to evaluate the effects on extent of resection. 
Reporting of adverse events was incomplete and suggestive of significant reporting bias (very low‐certainty evidence). Overall, the proportion of reported events was low in most trials and, therefore, issues with power to detect differences in outcomes that may or may not have been present. Survival outcomes were not adequately reported, although one trial reported no evidence of improvement in overall survival with 5‐ALA (hazard ratio (HR) 0.82, 95% CI 0.62 to 1.07; 270 participants; low‐certainty evidence). Data for quality of life were only available for one study and there was significant attrition bias (very low‐certainty evidence). 
