Background
With the increased demand for whiter teeth, home‐based bleaching products, either dentist‐prescribed or over‐the‐counter products have been exponentially increasing in the past few decades. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2006. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of home‐based tooth whitening products with chemical bleaching action, dispensed by a dentist or over‐the‐counter. 
Search methods
Cochrane Oral Health's Information Specialist searched the following databases: Cochrane Oral Health's Trials Register (to 12 June 2018), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 6) in the Cochrane Library (searched 12 June 2018), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 12 June 2018), and Embase Ovid (1980 to 12 June 2018). The US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register ClinicalTrials.gov (12 June 2018) and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (12 June 2018) were searched for ongoing trials. No restrictions were placed on the language or date of publication when searching the electronic databases. 
Selection criteria
We included in our review randomised controlled trials (RCTs) which involved adults who were 18 years and above, and compared dentist‐dispensed or over‐the‐counter tooth whitening (bleaching) products with placebo or other comparable products. 
Quasi‐randomised trials, combination of in‐office and home‐based treatments, and home‐based products having physical removal of stains were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials. Two pairs of review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We estimated risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous data, and mean differences (MDs) or standardised mean difference (SMD) for continuous data, with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 71 trials in the review with 26 studies (1398 participants) comparing a bleaching agent to placebo and 51 studies (2382 participants) comparing a bleaching agent to another bleaching agent. Two studies were at low overall risk of bias; two at high overall risk of bias; and the remaining 67 at unclear overall risk of bias. 
