Background
There is great global variation in the sleeping arrangements for healthy newborn infants. Bed sharing is a type of sleeping practice in which the sleeping surface (e.g. bed, couch or armchair, or some other sleeping surface) is shared between the infant and another person. The possible physiological benefits include better oxygen and cardiopulmonary stability, fewer crying episodes, less risk of hypothermia, and a longer duration of breastfeeding. On the other hand, the most important harmful effect of bed sharing is that it may increase the risk of sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). Studies have found conflicting evidence regarding the safety and efficacy of bed sharing during infancy. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of bed sharing, started during the neonatal period, on breastfeeding status (exclusive and total duration of breastfeeding), incidence of SIDS, rates of hypothermia, neonatal and infant mortality, and long‐term neurodevelopmental outcomes. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2020, Issue 7) in the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 23 July 2020), CINAHL (1982 to 23 July 2020), and LILACS (1980 to 23 July 2020). We also searched clinical trials databases, and the reference lists of retrieved articles, for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTS. 
Selection criteria
We planned to include RCTs or quasi‐RCTs (including cluster‐randomised trials) that included term neonates initiated on bed sharing within 24 hours of birth (and continuing to bed share with the mother in the first four weeks of life, followed by a variable time period thereafter), and compared them to a 'no bed sharing' group. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures as recommended by Cochrane. We planned to use the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
Main results
Our search strategy yielded 6231 records. After removal of duplicate records, we screened 2745 records by title and abstract. We excluded 2739 records that did not match our inclusion criteria. We obtained six full‐text studies for assessment. These six studies did not meet the eligibility criteria and were excluded. 
Authors' conclusions
We did not find any studies that met our inclusion criteria. There is a need for RCTs on bed sharing in healthy term neonates that directly assess efficacy (i.e. studies in a controlled setting, like hospital) or effectiveness (i.e. studies conducted in community or home settings) and safety. Future studies should assess outcomes such as breastfeeding status and risk of SIDS. They should also include neonates from high‐income countries and low‐ and middle‐income countries, especially those countries where bed sharing is more prevalent because of cultural practices (e.g. Asian countries). 
