Background
Theoretically, autologous serum eye drops (AS) offer a potential advantage over traditional therapies on the assumption that AS not only serve as a lacrimal substitute to provide lubrication but contain other biochemical components that allow them to mimic natural tears more closely. Application of AS has gained popularity as second‐line therapy for patients with dry eye. Published studies on this subject indicate that autologous serum could be an effective treatment for dry eye. 
Objectives
We conducted this review to evaluate the efficacy and safety of AS given alone or in combination with artificial tears as compared with artificial tears alone, saline, placebo, or no treatment for adults with dry eye. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register) (2016, Issue 5), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to July 2016), Embase (January 1980 to July 2016), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to July 2016), the ISRCTN registry (www.isrctn.com/editAdvancedSearch), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We also searched the Science Citation Index Expanded database (December 2016) and reference lists of included studies. We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 5 July 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared AS versus artificial tears for treatment of adults with dry eye. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened all titles and abstracts and assessed full‐text reports of potentially eligible trials. Two review authors extracted data and assessed risk of bias and characteristics of included trials. We contacted investigators to ask for missing data. For both primary and secondary outcomes, we reported mean differences with corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for continuous outcomes. We did not perform meta‐analysis owing to differences in outcome assessments across trials. 
Main results
We identified five eligible RCTs (92 participants) that compared AS versus artificial tears or saline in individuals with dry eye of various origins (Sjögren's syndrome‐related dry eye, non‐Sjögren's syndrome dry eye, and postoperative dry eye induced by laser‐assisted in situ keratomileusis (LASIK)). We assessed the certainty of evidence as low or very low because of lack of reporting of quantitative data for most outcomes and unclear or high risk of bias among trials. We judged most risk of bias domains to have unclear risk in two trials owing to insufficient reporting of trial characteristics, and we considered one trial to have high risk of bias for most domains. We judged the remaining two trials to have low risk of bias; however, these trials used a cross‐over design and did not report data in a way that could be used to compare outcomes between treatment groups appropriately. Incomplete outcome reporting and heterogeneity among outcomes and follow‐up periods prevented inclusion of these trials in a summary meta‐analysis. 
Three trials compared AS with artificial tears; however, only one trial reported quantitative data for analysis. Low‐certainty evidence from one trial suggested that AS might provide some improvement in participant‐reported symptoms compared with artificial tears after two weeks of treatment; the mean difference in mean change in symptom score measured on a visual analogue scale (range 0 to 100, with higher scores representing worse symptoms) was ‐12.0 (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐20.16 to ‐3.84; 20 participants). This same trial found mixed results with respect to ocular surface outcomes; the mean difference in mean change in scores between AS and artificial tears was ‐0.9 (95% CI ‐1.47 to ‐0.33; 20 participants; low‐certainty evidence) for fluorescein staining and ‐2.2 (95% CI ‐2.73 to ‐1.67; 20 participants; low‐certainty evidence) for Rose Bengal staining. Both staining scales range from 0 to 9, with higher scores indicating worse results. The mean change in tear film break‐up time was 2.00 seconds longer (95% CI 0.99 to 3.01; 20 participants; low‐certainty evidence) in the AS group than in the artificial tears group. Investigators reported no clinically meaningful differences in Schirmer’s test scores between groups (mean difference ‐0.40 mm, 95% CI ‐2.91 to 2.11; 20 participants; low‐certainty evidence). None of these three trials reported tear hyperosmolarity and adverse events. 
