Background
Complete deletion of both the short arm of chromosome 1 (1p) and the long arm of chromosome 19 (19q), known as 1p/19q codeletion, is a mutation that can occur in gliomas. It occurs in a type of glioma known as oligodendroglioma and its higher grade counterpart known as anaplastic oligodendroglioma. Detection of 1p/19q codeletion in gliomas is important because, together with another mutation in an enzyme known as isocitrate dehydrogenase, it is needed to make the diagnosis of an oligodendroglioma. Presence of 1p/19q codeletion also informs patient prognosis and prediction of the best drug treatment. The main two tests in use are fluorescent in situ hybridisation (FISH) and polymerase chain reaction (PCR)‐based loss of heterozygosity (LOH) assays (also known as PCR‐based short tandem repeat or microsatellite analysis). Many other tests are available. None of the tests is perfect, although PCR‐based LOH is expected to have very high sensitivity. 
Objectives
To estimate the sensitivity and specificity and cost‐effectiveness of different deoxyribonucleic acid (DNA)‐based techniques for determining 1p/19q codeletion status in glioma. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase and BIOSIS up to July 2019. There were no restrictions based on language or date of publication. We sought economic evaluation studies from the results of this search and using the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database. 
Selection criteria
We included cross‐sectional studies in adults with glioma or any subtype of glioma, presenting raw data or cross‐tabulations of two or more DNA‐based tests for 1p/19q codeletion. We also sought economic evaluations of these tests. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed procedures outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Diagnostic Test Accuracy Reviews. Two review authors independently screened titles/abstracts/full texts, performed data extraction, and undertook applicability and risk of bias assessments using QUADAS‐2. Meta‐analyses used the hierarchical summary ROC model to estimate and compare test accuracy. We used FISH and PCR‐based LOH as alternate reference standards to examine how tests compared with those in common use, and conducted a latent class analysis comparing FISH and PCR‐based LOH. We constructed an economic model to evaluate cost‐effectiveness. 
Main results
We included 53 studies examining: PCR‐based LOH, FISH, single nucleotide polymorphism (SNP) array, next‐generation sequencing (NGS), comparative genomic hybridisation (CGH), array comparative genomic hybridisation (aCGH), multiplex‐ligation‐dependent probe amplification (MLPA), real‐time PCR, chromogenic in situ hybridisation (CISH), mass spectrometry (MS), restriction fragment length polymorphism (RFLP) analysis, G‐banding, methylation array and NanoString. Risk of bias was low for only one study; most gave us concerns about how patients were selected or about missing data. We had applicability concerns about many of the studies because only patients with specific subtypes of glioma were included. 1520 participants contributed to analyses using FISH as the reference, 1304 participants to analyses involving PCR‐based LOH as the reference and 262 participants to analyses of comparisons between methods from studies not including FISH or PCR‐based LOH. 
