Background
Good patient adherence to antiretroviral (ART) medication determines effective HIV viral suppression, and thus reduces the risk of progression and transmission of HIV. With accurate methods to monitor treatment adherence, we could use simple triage to target adherence support interventions that could help in the community or at health centres in resource‐limited settings. 
Objectives
To determine the accuracy of simple measures of ART adherence (including patient self‐report, tablet counts, pharmacy records, electronic monitoring, or composite methods) for detecting non‐suppressed viral load in people living with HIV and receiving ART treatment. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Information Specialists searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, CINAHL, African‐Wide information, and Web of Science up to 22 April 2021. They also searched the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) and ClinicalTrials.gov for ongoing studies. No restrictions were placed on the language or date of publication when searching the electronic databases. 
Selection criteria
We included studies of all designs that evaluated a simple measure of adherence (index test) such as self‐report, tablet counts, pharmacy records or secondary database analysis, or both, electronic monitoring or composite measures of any of those tests, in people living with HIV and receiving ART treatment. We used a viral load assay with a limit of detection ranging from 10 copies/mL to 400 copies/mL as the reference standard. We created 2 × 2 tables to calculate sensitivity and specificity. 
Data collection and analysis
We screened studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias using QUADAS‐2 independently and in duplicate. We assessed the certainty of evidence using the GRADE method. The results of estimated sensitivity and specificity were presented using paired forest plots and tabulated summaries. We encountered a high level of variation among studies which precluded a meaningful meta‐analysis or comparison of adherence measures. We explored heterogeneity using pre‐defined subgroup analysis. 
Main results
We included 51 studies involving children and adults with HIV, mostly living in low‐ and middle‐income settings, conducted between 2003 and 2021. Several studies assessed more than one index test, and the most common measure of adherence to ART was self‐report. 
