Background
Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) is a chronic condition characterised by progressive airflow limitation that is at most partially reversible. Despite the lack of reversibility patients often report symptomatic improvement with short‐acting beta‐2 bronchodilator medication. Short‐acting beta‐2 bronchodilators are used in the management of both stable and acute exacerbations of COPD. 
Objectives
To determine the clinical effectiveness and assess the adverse effects of regular treatment with short‐acting beta‐2 agonists bronchodilators in patients with stable COPD. 
Search methods
A search was carried out using the Cochrane Airways Group database. In addition, the reference lists of review articles and the randomised controlled trials (RCTs) retrieved in full text were searched for other potentially relevant citations. 
Selection criteria
RCTs of at least one week in duration comparing treatment with inhaled short‐acting beta‐2 agonists with placebo in patients with stable COPD. 
Data collection and analysis
Data extraction and study quality assessment was performed independently by two reviewers. Where further or missing data was required, authors of studies were contacted. The data were analysed using the Cochrane Review Manager software. 
Main results
Thirteen studies were included in this review. All studies used a crossover design and were of high quality. Spirometry performed at the end of the study period and after the administration of treatment (post‐bronchodilator) showed a slight but significant increase in FEV1 and FVC when compared to placebo (WMD 0.14 L; 95%CI 0.04, 0.25 & WMD 0.30 L; 95%CI 0.02, 0.58, respectively). In addition, both morning and evening PEFR were significantly better during active treatment than during placebo (WMD 29.17 L/min; 95%CI 0.25, 58.09 & WMD 36.75 L/min; 95%CI 2.56, 70.94, respectively). 
A significant improvement in daily breathlessness score was observed during treatment with beta‐2 agonist when compared to placebo (SMD 1.33; 95%CI 1.0, 1.65). 
