Background
In individuals with cystic fibrosis there are no established targets for participation in physical activity, nor have any ideal strategies to promote participation in physical activity been identified 
Objectives
To evaluate the effect of treatment to increase participation in physical activity in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Trials Register using the terms 'physiotherapy and exercise'. 
Date of the most recent search: 05 December 2013.
Additionally, we conducted searches of the electronic databases MEDLINE, CINAHL (Ebscohost), PsycINFO (OvidSP) and the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro). We also searched for potentially relevant, completed but unpublished studies, on several clinical trials registers. 
Date of the most recent searches: 10 September 2012.
Selection criteria
All randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled studies which investigated strategies designed to promote increased participation in daily physical activity for individuals with cystic fibrosis. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected studies for inclusion, assessed the risk of bias and extracted data. Any disagreements were resolved by discussion and consensus, or in arbitration with a third author. 
Main results
Four studies (199 participants) met the inclusion criteria and were predominantly conducted in children with cystic fibrosis. Only one study had a combined cohort of adult and paediatric participants. The description of study methods was inadequate to assess the risk of bias, particularly with regard to blinding of assessors and selective reporting. One study was conducted in an inpatient setting with follow up in the outpatient setting; while the remaining three studies were conducted in individuals with stable respiratory disease in the outpatient setting. All included studies used exercise training to promote participation in physical activity, with the duration of the intervention period ranging from 18 days to three years. No improvement in physical activity participation was reported with any intervention period less than or equal to six months. Improvements in physical activity participation were only seen where follow up occurred beyond 12 months. There was no significant impact on quality of life from any of the intervention strategies. 
