Background
Non‐specific low back pain is a major health problem worldwide. Interventions based on exercises have been the most commonly used treatments for patients with this condition. Over the past few years, the Pilates method has been one of the most popular exercise programmes used in clinical practice. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of the Pilates method for patients with non‐specific acute, subacute or chronic low back pain. 
Search methods
We conducted the searches in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, PEDro and SPORTDiscus from the date of their inception to March 2014. We updated the search in June 2015 but these results have not yet been incorporated. We also searched the reference lists of eligible papers as well as six trial registry websites. We placed no limitations on language or date of publication. 
Selection criteria
We only included randomised controlled trials that examined the effectiveness of Pilates intervention in adults with acute, subacute or chronic non‐specific low back pain. The primary outcomes considered were pain, disability, global impression of recovery and quality of life. 
Data collection and analysis
Two independent raters performed the assessment of risk of bias in the included studies using the 'Risk of bias' assessment tool recommended by The Cochrane Collaboration. We also assessed clinical relevance by scoring five questions related to this domain as 'yes', 'no' or 'unclear'. We evaluated the overall quality of evidence using the GRADE approach and for effect sizes we used three levels: small (mean difference (MD) < 10% of the scale), medium (MD 10% to 20% of the scale) or large (MD > 20% of the scale). We converted outcome measures to a common 0 to 100 scale when different scales were used. 
Main results
The search retrieved 126 trials; 10 fulfilled the inclusion criteria and we included them in the review (a total sample of 510 participants). Seven studies were considered to have low risk of bias, and three were considered as high risk of bias. 
A total of six trials compared Pilates to minimal intervention. There is low quality evidence that Pilates reduces pain compared with minimal intervention, with a medium effect size at short‐term follow‐up (less than three months after randomisation) (MD ‐14.05, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐18.91 to ‐9.19). For intermediate‐term follow‐up (at least three months but less than 12 months after randomisation), two trials provided moderate quality evidence that Pilates reduces pain compared to minimal intervention, with a medium effect size (MD ‐10.54, 95% CI ‐18.46 to ‐2.62). Based on five trials, there is low quality evidence that Pilates improves disability compared with minimal intervention, with a small effect size at short‐term follow‐up (MD ‐7.95, 95% CI ‐13.23 to ‐2.67), and moderate quality evidence for an intermediate‐term effect with a medium effect size (MD ‐11.17, 95% CI ‐18.41 to ‐3.92). Based on one trial and low quality evidence, a significant short‐term effect with a small effect size was reported for function (MD 1.10, 95% CI 0.23 to 1.97) and global impression of recovery (MD 1.50, 95% CI 0.70 to 2.30), but not at intermediate‐term follow‐up for either outcome. 
