Background
In most industrialized countries, drowning ranks second or third behind motor vehicles and fires as a cause of unintentional injury deaths to children under the age of 15. Death rates from drowning are highest in children less than five years old. Pool fencing is a passive environmental intervention designed to reduce unintended access to swimming pools and thus prevent drowning in the preschool age group. Because of the magnitude of the problem and the potential effectiveness of fencing, we decided to evaluate the effect of pool fencing as a drowning prevention strategy for young children. 
Objectives
To determine if pool fencing prevents drowning in children (under 14 years of age).
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Injuries Group's Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, National Research Register, Zetoc and other specialist databases. We searched reference lists of relevant articles and contacted relevant organisations and experts. The searches were last updated in October 2006. 
Selection criteria
In order to be selected, a study had to be designed to evaluate pool fencing in a defined population and provide relevant and interpretable data that objectively measured the risk of drowning or near‐drowning or provided rates of these outcomes in fenced and unfenced pools. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted by two authors using a standard abstract form. Odds ratios (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and incidence rates, were calculated for drowning and near‐drowning. 
Main results
Three case‐control studies met the selection criteria. The results of these studies indicate that pool fencing significantly reduces the risk of drowning. The OR for the risk of drowning or near drowning in a fenced pool compared to an unfenced pool is 0.27 (95% CI 0.16 to 0.47). Isolation fencing (enclosing pool only) is superior to perimeter fencing (enclosing property and pool); the OR for the risk of drowning in a pool with isolation fencing compared to a pool with three‐sided fencing is 0.17 (95% CI 0.07 to 0.44). 
