Background
Disease recurrence and progression remain major challenges in the treatment of non‐muscle invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC). Blue light‐enhanced transurethral resection of bladder cancer (TURBT) is an approach to improve staging and achieve a complete resection of NMIBC. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of blue light‐enhanced TURBT compared to white light‐based TURBT in the treatment of NMIBC. 
Search methods
We searched several medical literature databases, including the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, and Embase, as well as trial registers, including ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We performed a comprehensive search with no restrictions on language of publication or publication status until March 2021. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials using blue light versus white light TURBT. Included participants had a high level of suspicion based on imaging or ‘visible diagnosis’ for primary urothelial carcinoma of the bladder or recurrent urothelial carcinoma of the bladder upon cytoscopy. We excluded studies in which blue light was used in a surveillance setting.  
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed data extraction and risk of bias assessment. Our primary outcomes were time to disease recurrence, time to disease progression, and serious surgical complications. Secondary outcomes were time to death from bladder cancer, any adverse events, and non‐serious complications. We rated the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 16 randomized controlled trials involving a total of 4325 participants in the review. The studies compared blue light versus white light TURBT for treatment of NMIBC.  
Primary outcomes 
Blue light TURBT may reduce the risk of disease recurrence over time (hazard ratio (HR) 0.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.54 to 0.81; low‐certainty evidence) depending on baseline risk. For participants with low‐, intermediate‐, and high‐risk NMIBC, this corresponded to 48 (66 fewer to 27 fewer), 109 (152 fewer to 59 fewer), and 147 (211 fewer to 76 fewer) fewer recurrences per 1000 participants when compared to white light TURBT, respectively.  
