Background
Chemotherapeutic agents such as topotecan can be used as salvage treatment in epithelial ovarian carcinoma (EOC). The effects of using topotecan as a therapeutic agent have not been previously been systematically reviewed. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of topotecan for the treatment of ovarian cancer. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), (Issue 6, 2015); Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Review Group (CGCRG) Specialised Register (Cochrane Library Issue 6, 2015); MEDLINE (January 1990 to 30 September 2015); EMBASE (January 1990 to 30 September 2015); The European Organization for the Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) database (to 30 September 2015); CBM (Chinese Biomedical Database) (January 1990 to 30 September 2015). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) which randomise participants with ovarian cancer to single or combined use of topotecan versus interventions without topotecan. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted and analysed data.
Main results
Six multicentre pre‐market RCTs involving 5640 participants were included in this review. We considered three studies to be at a low risk of bias and three studies to be at an unclear or moderate risk of bias due to inadequate reporting. Survival results were inconsistently presented across study reports and comparisons and types of participants differed between studies, therefore we were unable to pool these data. In the seven studies, the median overall survival (OS) of participants treated with topotecan ranged from 39.6 weeks to 63 weeks. One study was conducted in women with primary advanced‐stage ovarian cancer; the others were conducted in women with relapsed ovarian cancer. No significant difference in OS was found in studies comparing topotecan with paclitaxel (one study, P = 0.44), or topotecan plus thalidomide (one study, P = 0.67). No significant difference in OS was found in the study comparing topotecan with pegylated liposomal doxorubicin (PLD) (one study, P = 0.341), however in the platinum‐sensitive subgroup of this study, topotecan was associated with a shorter median survival time than PLD (70 weeks versus 108 weeks). Topotecan was associated with a significantly longer OS compared with treosulfan (one study, P = 0.0023). 
