Background
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which a clot forms in the deep veins, most commonly of the leg. It occurs in approximately 1 in 1,000 people. If left untreated, the clot can travel up to the lungs and cause a potentially life‐threatening pulmonary embolism (PE). Previously, a DVT was treated with the anticoagulants heparin and vitamin K antagonists. However, two forms of novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) have been developed: oral direct thrombin inhibitors (DTI) and oral factor Xa inhibitors. The new drugs have characteristics that may be favourable over conventional treatment, including oral administration, a predictable effect, lack of frequent monitoring or re‐dosing and few known drug interactions. To date, no Cochrane review has measured the effectiveness and safety of these drugs in the treatment of DVT. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of oral DTIs and oral factor Xa inhibitors for the treatment of DVT. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Peripheral Vascular Diseases Group Trials Search Co‐ordinator searched the Specialised Register (last searched January 2015) and the Cochrane Register of Studies (last searched January 2015). We searched clinical trials databases for details of ongoing or unpublished studies and the reference lists of relevant articles retrieved by electronic searches for additional citations. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials in which people with a DVT confirmed by standard imaging techniques, were allocated to receive an oral DTI or an oral factor Xa inhibitor for the treatment of DVT. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (LR, JM) independently extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias in the trials. Any disagreements were resolved by discussion with the third review author (PK). We performed meta‐analyses when we considered heterogeneity low. The two primary outcomes were recurrent VTE and PE. Other outcomes included all‐cause mortality and major bleeding. We calculated all outcomes using an odds ratio (OR) with a 95% confidence interval (CI). 
