Background
Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the mainstay of therapy for moderate to severe obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA). However, compliance with CPAP has been less than ideal. There are many different CPAP interfaces now available for the treatment of OSA. The type of CPAP delivery interface is likely to influence a patient's acceptance of CPAP therapy and long term compliance. 
Objectives
This review aims to compare the efficacy of the various CPAP delivery interfaces available for the treatment of obstructive sleep apnoea. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL). Searches were current as of January 2011. 
Selection criteria
All randomised, controlled trials comparing different forms of CPAP delivery interface for the treatment of OSA were considered for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Attempts were made to contact study authors to obtain additional, unpublished data. 
Main results
Four trials involving 132 people were included. Two studies compared nasal mask with the Oracle oral mask and showed no significant difference in compliance at one month (mean difference (MD) 0.17 hours per night, 95%CI 0.54 to 0.87). There were also no significant differences in any of the physiological parameters (e.g. AHI, arousal index, minimum oxygen saturation), Epworth Sleepiness Scale (ESS), or symptoms of OSA. A single study comparing nasal mask with nasal pillows showed a significant difference in compliance when expressed as the percentage of days used in favour of nasal pillows (nasal pillows mean 94.1± SD 8.3%; nasal mask 85.7 ± 23.5%, P = 0.02), however there were no significant differences in the mean daily use for all days or when use was greater than 0 minutes per day. Nasal pillows were also associated with fewer overall adverse effects (P < 0.001) and greater interface satisfaction (P = 0.001). One study comparing nasal mask with face mask showed that compliance was significantly greater with use of a nasal mask (MD 1.0 hour per night,95% CI 0.3 to 1.8). Nasal mask was also associated with significantly lower ESS scores and was the preferred interface in almost all patients. 
