Background
Controversy exists over whether longchain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) are essential nutrients for preterm infants because they may not be able to synthesise sufficient amounts of LCPUFA to meet the needs of the developing brain and retina. 
Objectives
To assess whether supplementation of formula milk with LCPUFA is safe and of benefit to preterm infants. The main areas of interest were the effects of supplementation on the visual function, development and growth of preterm infants. 
Search methods
Trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2) in the Cochrane Library (searched 28 February 2016), MEDLINE Ovid (1966 to 28 February 2016), Embase Ovid (1980 to 28 February 2016), CINAHL EBSCO (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature; 1980 to 28 February 2016), MEDLINE In Process & Other Non‐indexed Citations (1966 to 28 February 2016) and by checking reference lists of articles and conference proceedings. We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov (13 April 2016). No language restrictions were applied. 
Selection criteria
All randomised trials evaluating the effect of LCPUFA‐supplemented formula in enterally‐fed preterm infants (compared with standard formula) on visual development, neurodevelopment and physical growth. Trials reporting only biochemical outcomes were not included. 
Data collection and analysis
All authors assessed eligibility and trial quality, two authors extracted data separately. Study authors were contacted for additional information. 
Main results
Seventeen trials involving 2260 preterm infants were included in the review. The risk of bias varied across the included trials with 10 studies having low risk of bias in a majority of the domains. The median gestational age (GA) in the included trials was 30 weeks and median birth weight (BW) was 1300 g. The median concentration of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA) was 0.33% (range: 0.15% to 1%) and arachidonic acid (AA) 0.37% (range: 0.02% to 0.84%).  Visual acuity  Visual acuity over the first year was measured by Teller or Lea acuity cards in eight studies, by visual evoked potential (VEP) in six studies and by electroretinogram (ERG) in two studies. Most studies found no significant differences in visual acuity between supplemented and control infants. The form of data presentation and the varying assessment methods precluded the use of meta‐analysis. A GRADE analysis for this outcome indicated that the overall quality of evidence was low. 
