Background
Dornase alfa is currently used as a mucolytic to treat pulmonary disease (the major cause of morbidity and mortality) in cystic fibrosis. It reduces mucus viscosity in the lungs, promoting improved clearance of secretions. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Objectives
To determine whether the use of dornase alfa in cystic fibrosis is associated with improved mortality and morbidity compared to placebo or other medications that improve airway clearance, and to identify any adverse events associated with its use. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Trials Register which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches, handsearching relevant journals and abstracts from conferences. Date of the most recent search of the Group's Cystic Fibrosis Register: 12 October 2020. 
Clinicaltrials.gov and the International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were also searched to identify unpublished or ongoing trials. Date of most recent search: 08 February 2021. 
Selection criteria
All randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing dornase alfa to placebo, standard therapy or other medications that improve airway clearance. 
Data collection and analysis
Authors independently assessed trials against the inclusion criteria; two authors carried out analysis of methodological quality and data extraction. GRADE was used to assess the level of evidence. 
Main results
The searches identified 74 trials, of which 19 (2565 participants) met our inclusion criteria. 15 trials compared dornase alfa to placebo or no dornase alfa (2447 participants); two compared daily dornase to hypertonic saline (32 participants); one compared daily dornase alfa to hypertonic saline and alternate day dornase alfa (48 participants); one compared dornase alfa to mannitol and the combination of both drugs (38 participants). Trial duration varied from six days to three years. 
Dornase alfa compared to placebo or no treatment 
Dornase alfa probably improved forced expiratory volume at one second (FEV1) at one month (four trials, 248 participants), three months (one trial, 320 participants; moderate‐quality evidence), six months (one trial, 647 participants; high‐quality evidence) and two years (one trial, 410 participants). Limited low‐quality evidence showed treatment may make little or no difference  in quality of life. Dornase alfa probably reduced the number of pulmonary exacerbations in trials of up to two years (moderate‐quality evidence). One trial that examined the cost of care, including the cost of dornase alfa, found that the cost savings from dornase alfa offset 18% to 38% of the medication costs. 
