Background
This is an update of a Cochrane Review originally published in Issue 4, 2005 of The Cochrane Library and previously updated in 2010. 
Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis is a condition characterised by benign papillomatous (wart‐like) growths in the upper airway. It can affect both adults and children causing airway obstruction and voice change. Treatment usually involves repeated surgical debulking of the papillomata. Several agents have been proposed as adjuvants to surgical debulking, including antivirals, administered systemically or injected into the lesions. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of antiviral agents as adjuvant therapy in the management of recurrent respiratory papillomatosis in children and adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Ear, Nose and Throat Disorders Group Trials Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); PubMed; EMBASE; CINAHL; Web of Science; BIOSIS Previews; Cambridge Scientific Abstracts; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the most recent search was 24 February 2012. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials.
Data collection and analysis
We identified 143 references from the searches. Forty‐three were appropriate for retrieval and assessed for eligibility by the authors. One randomised controlled trial met the inclusion criteria, involving 19 participants. We contacted the authors to obtain additional data to facilitate the review. 
Main results
The included study was a single‐institution, randomised, double‐blind, placebo‐controlled trial of intralesional cidofovir administered at the time of surgical debulking. Adults (n = 15) and children (n = 4) were included. We judged the study to have a reasonably low risk of bias. After a 12‐month trial period, no difference was found between the cidofovir and placebo groups. Both groups showed a significant reduction in disease extent (as assessed at the time of surgery using the Derkay Scoring System), but no significant change in health‐related quality of life. 
