Background
Squamous cell carcinoma of the conjunctiva is described in the ophthalmic literature as a rare, slow‐growing tumour of the eye, normally affecting elderly men around 70 years of age. In Africa, however, the disease is different. The incidence is rising rapidly, affecting young persons (around 35 years of age), and usually affecting women. It is more aggressive, with a mean history of three months at presentation. This pattern is related to the co‐existence of the HIV/AIDS pandemic, high HPV exposure, and solar radiation in the region. Various interventions exist, but despite therapy, there is a high recurrence rate (up to 43%) and poor cosmetic results in late disease. This review was conducted to evaluate the interventions for treatment of conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma in HIV‐infected individuals. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effect of interventions for treating squamous cell carcinoma of the conjunctiva in HIV‐infected individuals on local control, recurrence, death, time to recurrence, and adverse events. 
Search methods
Using a sensitive search strategy, we attempted to identify all relevant trials, regardless of language or publication status, from the following electronic databases; PubMedPubMed, EMBASE and The Cochrane Library. We also searched clinical trial registries; WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) and the US National Institutes of Health Clinicaltrials.gov. We searched the international conference proceedings of HIV/AIDS and AIDS‐related cancers from the AIDS Education Global Education System (AEGIS). Searches were conducted between January and February 2012. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving HIV‐infected individuals with ocular surface squamous neoplasia. 
Data collection and analysis
We independently screened the results of the search to select potentially relevant studies and to retrieve the full articles. We independently applied the inclusion criteria to the potentially relevant studies. No studies were identified that fulfilled the selection criteria. 
Main results
No RCTs of interventions currently used against conjunctival squamous cell carcinoma in HIV‐infected individuals were identified.There is one ongoing RCT in Kenya that was registered in July 2012. 
