Background
Varicose veins are enlarged and tortuous veins, affecting up to one‐third of the world's population. They can be a cause of chronic venous insufficiency, which is characterised by oedema, pigmentation, eczema, lipodermatosclerosis, atrophie blanche, and healed or active venous ulcers. Injection sclerotherapy (liquid or foam) is widely used for treatment of varicose veins aiming to transform the varicose veins into a fibrous cord. However, there is limited evidence regarding its effectiveness and safety, especially in patients with more severe disease. This is the second update of the review first published in 2002. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of injection sclerotherapy for the treatment of varicose veins. 
Search methods
For this update, the Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, AMED, CINAHL, and LILACS databases, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registries, on 20 July 2021. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (including cluster‐randomised trials and first phase cross‐over studies) that used injection sclerotherapy for the treatment of varicose veins. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed, selected and extracted data. Disagreements were cross‐checked by a third review author. We used Cochrane's Risk of bias tool to assess the risk of bias. The outcomes of interest were cosmetic appearance, complications, residual varicose veins, quality of life (QoL), persistence of symptoms, and recurrent varicose veins. We calculated risk ratios (RRs) or mean difference (MD) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used the worst‐case‐scenario for dichotomous data imputation for intention‐to‐treat analyses. For continuous outcomes, we used the 'last‐observation‐carried‐forward' for data imputation if there was balanced loss to follow‐up. We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
