Background
Competitions might encourage people to undertake and/or reinforce behaviour change, including smoking cessation. Competitions involve individuals or groups having the opportunity to win a prize following successful cessation, either through direct competition or by entry into a lottery or raffle. 
Objectives
To determine whether competitions lead to higher long‐term smoking quit rates. We also aimed to examine the impact on the population, the costs, and the unintended consequences of smoking cessation competitions. 
Search methods
This review has merged two previous Cochrane reviews. Here we include studies testing competitions from the reviews ‘Competitions and incentives for smoking cessation' and ‘Quit & Win interventions for smoking cessation'. We updated the evidence by searching the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Group Specialized Register in June 2018. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs), allocating individuals, workplaces, groups within workplaces, or communities to experimental or control conditions. We also considered controlled studies with baseline and post‐intervention measures in which participants were assigned to interventions by the investigators. Participants were smokers, of any age and gender, in any setting. Eligible interventions were contests, competitions, lotteries, and raffles, to reward cessation and continuous abstinence in smoking cessation programmes. 
Data collection and analysis
For this update, data from new studies were extracted independently by two review authors. The primary outcome measure was abstinence from smoking at least six months from the start of the intervention. We performed meta‐analyses to pool study effects where suitable data were available and where the effect of the competition component could be separated from that of other intervention components, and report other findings narratively. 
Main results
Twenty studies met our inclusion criteria. Five investigated performance‐based reward, where groups of smokers competed against each other to win a prize (N = 915). The remaining 15 used performance‐based eligibility, where cessation resulted in entry into a prize draw (N = 10,580). Five of these used Quit & Win contests (N = 4282), of which three were population‐level interventions. Fourteen studies were RCTs, and the remainder quasi‐randomized or controlled trials. Six had suitable abstinence data for a meta‐analysis, which did not show evidence of effectiveness of performance‐based eligibility interventions (risk ratio (RR) 1.16, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.77 to 1.74, N = 3201, I2 = 57%). No trials that used performance‐based rewards found a beneficial effect of the intervention on long‐term quit rates. 
The three population‐level Quit & Win studies found higher smoking cessation rates in the intervention group (4% to 16.9%) than the control group at long‐term follow‐up, but none were RCTs and all had important between‐group differences in baseline characteristics. These studies suggested that fewer than one in 500 smokers would quit because of the contest. 
Reported unintended consequences in all sets of studies generally related to discrepancies between self‐reported smoking status and biochemically‐verified smoking status. More serious adverse events were not attributed to the competition intervention. 
