Background
Colorectal cancer is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality, especially in the Western world. The human and financial costs have prompted considerable research to evaluate screening tests to detect the cancer at an early curable stage. Tests that have been considered for population screening include the faecal occult blood test (FOBT), flexible sigmoidoscopy and colonoscopy. Reducing mortality from colorectal cancer (CRC) may be achieved by the introduction of population‐based screening programmes. 
Objectives
To determine whether screening for colorectal cancer using the faecal occult blood test (guaiac or immunochemical) reduces colorectal cancer mortality and to consider the benefits and harms of screening. 
Search methods
Published and unpublished data for this review were identified by:
Reviewing studies included in the previous Cochrane review;  Searching several electronic databases (Cochrane Library, Medline, Embase, CINAHL, PsychInfo, Amed, SIGLE, HMIC); and  Writing to the principal investigators of potentially eligible trials. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised trials of screening for colorectal cancer that compared faecal occult blood test (guaiac or immunochemical) on more than one occasion with no screening and reported colorectal cancer mortality. 
Data collection and analysis
Data from the eligible trials were independently extracted by two reviewers. The primary data analysis was performed using the group participants were originally randomised to ('intention to screen'), whether or not they attended screening; a secondary analysis adjusted for non‐attendance. We calculated the relative risks and risk differences for each trial, and then overall, using fixed and random effects models (including testing for heterogeneity of effects). We identified nine articles concerning four randomised controlled trials and two controlled trials involving over 320,000 participants with follow‐up ranging from 8 to 18 years. 
Main results
Combined results from the 4 eligible randomised controlled trials shows that participants allocated to FOBT screening had a statistically significant 16% reduction in the relative risk of colorectal cancer mortality (RR 0.84; CI: 0.78‐0.90). In the 3 studies that used biennial screening (Funen, Minnesota, Nottingham) there was a 15% relative risk reduction (RR 0.85, CI: 0.78‐0.92) in colorectal cancer mortality. When adjusted for mean screening attendance in the individual studies, there was a 25% relative risk reduction (RR 0.75, CI: 0.66 ‐ 0.84) for those attending at least one round of screening using the faecal occult blood test. 
