Background
Ovulation induction with follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) is a second‐line treatment in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) who do not ovulate or conceive on clomiphene citrate. 
Objectives
To compare the effectiveness and safety of gonadotrophins as a second‐line treatment for ovulation induction in women with clomiphene citrate‐resistant polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS), and women who do not ovulate or conceive after clomiphene citrate. 
Search methods
In January 2018, we searched the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Specialised Register of Controlled Trials, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CINAHL, the World Health Organisation clinical trials register, Clinicaltrials.gov, LILACs, and PubMed databases, and Google Scholar. We checked references of in all obtained studies. We had no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials reporting data on clinical outcomes in women with PCOS who did not ovulate or conceive on clomiphene citrate, and undergoing ovulation induction with urinary‐derived gonadotrophins, including urofollitropin (uFSH) in purified FSH (FSH‐P) or highly purified FSH (FSH‐HP) form, human menopausal gonadotropin (HMG) and highly purified human menopausal gonadotrophin (HP‐HMG), or recombinant FSH (rFSH), or continuing clomiphene citrate. We included trials reporting on ovulation induction followed by intercourse or intrauterine insemination. We excluded studies that described co‐treatment with clomiphene citrate, metformin, luteinizing hormone, or letrozole. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors (NW, EK, and MvW) independently selected studies for inclusion, assessed risk of bias, and extracted study data. Primary outcomes were live birth rate per woman and multiple pregnancy per woman. Secondary outcomes were clinical pregnancy, miscarriage, incidence of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) per woman, total gonadotrophin dose, and total duration of stimulation per woman. We combined data using a fixed‐effect model to calculate the risk ratio (RR). We summarised the overall quality of evidence for the main outcomes using GRADE criteria. 
Main results
The review included 15 trials with 2387 women. Ten trials compared rFSH with urinary‐derived gonadotrophins (three compared rFSH with human menopausal gonadotrophin, and seven compared rFSH with FSH‐HP), four trials compared FSH‐P with HMG. We found no trials that compared FSH‐HP with FSH‐P. One trial compared FSH with continued clomiphene citrate. 
Recombinant FSH (rFSH) versus urinary‐derived gonadotrophins 
There may be little or no difference in the birth rate between rFSH and urinary‐derived gonadotrophins (RR 1.21, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.83 to 1.78; five trials, N = 505; I² = 9%; low‐quality evidence). This suggests that for the observed average live birth per woman who used urinary‐derived FSH of 16%, the chance of live birth with rFSH is between 13% and 28%. There may also be little or no difference between groups in incidence of multiple pregnancy (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.46 to 1.61; eight trials, N = 1368; I² = 0%; low‐quality evidence), clinical pregnancy rate (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.88 to 1.27; eight trials, N = 1330; I² = 0; low‐quality evidence), or miscarriage rate (RR 1.20, 95% CI 0.71 to 2.04; seven trials, N = 970; I² = 0; low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain whether rFSH reduces the incidence of OHSS (RR 1.48, 95% CI 0.82 to 2.65, ten trials, n=1565, I² = 0%, very low‐quality evidence). 
