Background
In acute asthma inhaled beta₂‐agonists are often administered by nebuliser to relieve bronchospasm, but some have argued that metered‐dose inhalers with a holding chamber (spacer) can be equally effective. Nebulisers require a power source and need regular maintenance, and are more expensive in the community setting. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of holding chambers (spacers) compared to nebulisers for the delivery of beta₂‐agonists for acute asthma. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Trial Register and reference lists of articles. We contacted the authors of studies to identify additional trials. Date of last search: February 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials in adults and children (from two years of age) with asthma, where spacer beta₂‐agonist delivery was compared with wet nebulisation. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently applied study inclusion criteria (one review author for the first version of the review), extracted the data and assessed risks of bias. Missing data were obtained from the authors or estimated. Results are reported with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). 
Main results
This review includes a total of 1897 children and 729 adults in 39 trials. Thirty‐three trials were conducted in the emergency room and equivalent community settings, and six trials were on inpatients with acute asthma (207 children and 28 adults). The method of delivery of beta₂‐agonist did not show a significant difference in hospital admission rates. In adults, the risk ratio (RR) of admission for spacer versus nebuliser was 0.94 (95% CI 0.61 to 1.43). The risk ratio for children was 0.71 (95% CI 0.47 to 1.08, moderate quality evidence). In children, length of stay in the emergency department was significantly shorter when the spacer was used. The mean duration in the emergency department for children given nebulised treatment was 103 minutes, and for children given treatment via spacers 33 minutes less (95% CI ‐43 to ‐24 minutes, moderate quality evidence). Length of stay in the emergency department for adults was similar for the two delivery methods. Peak flow and forced expiratory volume were also similar for the two delivery methods. Pulse rate was lower for spacer in children, mean difference ‐5% baseline (95% CI ‐8% to ‐2%, moderate quality evidence), as was the risk of developing tremor (RR 0.64; 95% CI 0.44 to 0.95, moderate quality evidence). 
