Background
Implanted spinal neuromodulation (SNMD) techniques are used in the treatment of refractory chronic pain. They involve the implantation of electrodes around the spinal cord (spinal cord stimulation (SCS)) or dorsal root ganglion (dorsal root ganglion stimulation (DRGS)), and a pulse generator unit under the skin. Electrical stimulation is then used with the aim of reducing pain intensity. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy, effectiveness, adverse events, and cost‐effectiveness of implanted spinal neuromodulation interventions for people with chronic pain. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE Ovid, Embase Ovid, Web of Science (ISI), Health Technology Assessments, ClinicalTrials.gov and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry from inception to September 2021 without language restrictions, searched the reference lists of included studies and contacted experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing SNMD interventions with placebo (sham) stimulation, no treatment or usual care; or comparing SNMD interventions + another treatment versus that treatment alone. We included participants ≥ 18 years old with non‐cancer and non‐ischaemic pain of longer than three months duration. Primary outcomes were pain intensity and adverse events. Secondary outcomes were disability, analgesic medication use, health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and health economic outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened database searches to determine inclusion, extracted data and evaluated risk of bias for prespecified results using the Risk of Bias 2.0 tool. Outcomes were evaluated at short‐ (≤ one month), medium‐ four to eight months) and long‐term (≥12 months). Where possible we conducted meta‐analyses. We used the GRADE system to assess the certainty of evidence. 
Main results
We included 15 unique published studies that randomised 908 participants, and 20 unique ongoing studies. All studies evaluated SCS. We found no eligible published studies of DRGS and no studies comparing SCS with no treatment or usual care. We rated all results evaluated as being at high risk of bias overall. For all comparisons and outcomes where we found evidence, we graded the certainty of the evidence as low or very low, downgraded due to limitations of studies, imprecision and in some cases, inconsistency. 
Active stimulation versus placebo  
SCS versus placebo (sham)  
Results were only available at short‐term follow‐up for this comparison.
Pain intensity 
Six studies (N = 164) demonstrated a small effect in favour of SCS at short‐term follow‐up (0 to 100 scale, higher scores = worse pain, mean difference (MD) ‐8.73, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐15.67 to ‐1.78, very low certainty). The point estimate falls below our predetermined threshold for a clinically important effect (≥10 points). No studies reported the proportion of participants experiencing 30% or 50% pain relief for this comparison. 
Adverse events (AEs) 
The quality and inconsistency of adverse event reporting in these studies precluded formal analysis. 
Active stimulation + other intervention versus other intervention alone  
SCS + other intervention versus other intervention alone (open‐label studies)  
Pain intensity 
Mean difference  
Three studies (N = 303) demonstrated a potentially clinically important mean difference in favour of SCS of ‐37.41 at short term (95% CI ‐46.39 to ‐28.42, very low certainty), and medium‐term follow‐up (5 studies, 635 participants, MD ‐31.22 95% CI ‐47.34 to ‐15.10 low‐certainty), and no clear evidence for an effect of SCS at long‐term follow‐up (1 study, 44 participants, MD ‐7 (95% CI ‐24.76 to 10.76, very low‐certainty). 
