Background
Demographic changes are leading to an increase in the number of older drivers: as dementia is an age‐related disease, there is also an increase in the numbers of drivers with dementia. Dementia can impact on both the mobility and safety of drivers, and the impact of formal assessment of driving is unknown in terms of either mobility or safety. Those involved in assessment of older drivers need to be aware of the evidence of positive and negative effects of driving assessment. Cognitive tests are felt by some authors to have poor face and construct validity for assessing driving performance; extrapolating from values in one large‐scale prospective cohort study, the cognitive test that most strongly predicted future crashes would, if used as a screening tool, potentially prevent six crashes per 1000 people over 65 years of age screened, but at the price of stopping the driving of 121 people who would not have had a crash. 
Objectives
Primary objectives: 1. to assess whether driving assessment facilitates continued driving in people with dementia; 2. to assess whether driving assessment reduces accidents in people with dementia. 
Secondary objective: 1. to assess the quality of research on assessment of drivers with dementia. 
Search methods
ALOIS, the Cochrane Dementia Group's Specialized Register was searched on 13 September 2012 using the terms: driving or driver* or "motor vehicle*" or "car accident*" or "traffic accident*" or automobile* or traffic. This register contains records from major healthcare databases, ongoing trial databases and grey literature sources and is updated regularly. 
Selection criteria
We sought randomised controlled trials prospectively evaluating drivers with dementia for outcomes such as transport mobility, driving cessation or motor vehicle accidents following driving assessment. 
Data collection and analysis
Each review author retrieved studies and assessed for primary and secondary outcomes, study design and study quality. 
Main results
No studies were found that met the inclusion criteria. A description and discussion of the driving literature relating to assessment of drivers with dementia relating to the primary objectives is presented. 
