Background
Individuals with coronary heart disease (CHD) often suffer from severe distress due to diagnosis, hospitalization, surgical procedures, uncertainty of outcome, fear of dying, doubts about progress in recovery, helplessness and loss of control. Such adverse effects put the cardiac patient at greater risk for complications, including sudden cardiac death. It is therefore of crucial importance that the care of people with CHD focuses on psychological as well as physiological needs. 
Music interventions have been used to reduce anxiety and distress and improve physiological functioning in medical patients; however its efficacy for people with CHD needs to be evaluated. 
Objectives
To update the previously published review that examined the effects of music interventions with standard care versus standard care alone on psychological and physiological responses in persons with CHD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) on The Cochrane Library (2012, Issue 10), MEDLINE (OvidSP, 1950 to October week 4 2012), EMBASE (OvidSP, 1974 to October week 5 2012), CINAHL (EBSCOhost, 1982 to 9 November 2012), PsycINFO (OvidSP, 1806 to October week 5 2012), LILACS (Virtual Health Library, 1982 to 15 November 2012), Social Science Citation Index (ISI, 1974 to 9 November 2012), a number of other databases, and clinical trial registers. We also conducted handsearching of journals and reference lists. We applied no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized controlled trials and quasi‐randomized trials that compared music interventions and standard care with standard care alone for persons with confirmed CHD. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed methodological quality, seeking additional information from the trial researchers when necessary. We present results using weighted mean differences for outcomes measured by the same scale, and standardized mean differences for outcomes measured by different scales. We used post‐intervention scores. In cases of significant baseline difference, we used change scores (changes from baseline). 
Main results
We identified four new trials for this update. In total, the evidence for this review rests on 26 trials (1369 participants). Listening to music was the main intervention used, and 23 of the studies did not include a trained music therapist. 
