Background
Zinc is a vital micronutrient for humans and is essential for protein synthesis, cell growth, and differentiation. Severe zinc deficiency can lead to slower physical, cognitive and sexual growth, cause skin disorders, decrease immunity, increase incidence of acute illnesses in infants and children and contribute to childhood stunting. By estimation, 17.3% of the world population is at risk of inadequate zinc intake. Such nutritional impairment increases the risk of diarrhoea and pneumonia by 20%, as well as leads to a global loss of more than 16 million disability‐adjusted life years in children less than five years of age. Not only does zinc deficiency affect lives, it adds to the considerable financial burden on depleted resources in countries that are most affected. By preventing or curing this deficiency, we can improve childhood mortality, morbidity and growth. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of zinc supplementation for the promotion of growth, reduction in mortality, and the prevention of infections in infants less than six months of age. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Group to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2018, Issue 4), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 18 May 2018), Embase (1980 to 18 May 2018), and CINAHL (1982 to 18 May 2018). We also searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings, and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. An updated search from 1 January 2018 to 29 January 2020 was run in the following databases: CENTRAL via CRS Web, MEDLINE via Ovid, and CINAHL via EBSCOhost. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled (individual and cluster randomised) and quasi‐randomised trials of zinc supplementation in healthy, term infants, less than six months of age comparing infant mortality, incidence of diarrhoea or respiratory illnesses, growth and/or serum zinc levels were eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened search results (title and abstracts) and relevant full texts. Studies fulfilling prespecified inclusion criteria were included with any disagreements resolved by consensus. Extraction and analysis were then conducted. We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of evidence as indicated by certainty in effect estimates. 
