Background
Diabetic macular edema (DME) is secondary to leakage from diseased retinal capillaries with thickening of central retina, and is an important cause of poor central visual acuity in people with diabetic retinopathy. Intravitreal steroids have been used to reduce retinal thickness and improve vision in people with DME. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of intravitreal steroid therapy compared with other treatments for DME. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, and Embase on 15 May, 2019. We also searched reference lists, Science Citation Index, conference proceedings, and relevant trial registers. We conducted a top up search on 21 October, 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials that evaluated any type of intravitreal steroids as monotherapy against any other intervention (e.g. observation, laser photocoagulation, anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (antiVEGF) for DME. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study eligibility and risk of bias and extracted data. Where appropriate, we performed meta‐analyses. 
Main results
We included 10 trials (4348 participants, 4505 eyes). These trials compared intravitreal steroid therapies versus other treatments, including intravitreal antiVEGF therapy, laser photocoagulation, and sham injection. Most trials had an overall unclear or high risk of bias. 
One trial (701 eyes ) compared intravitreal dexamethasone implant 0.7mg with sham. We found moderate‐certainty evidence that dexamethasone leads to slightly more improvement of visual acuity than sham at 12 months (mean difference [MD] −0.08 logMAR, 95% confidence interval [CI] −0.12 to −0.05 logMAR). Regarding improvement of three or more lines of visual acuity, there was moderate‐certainty evidence in favor of dexamethasone at 12 months, but the CI covered the null value (risk ratio (RR) 1.39, 95% CI 0.91 to 2.12). Regarding adverse events, dexamethasone increased by about four times the risk of cataract progression and the risk of using intraocular pressure (IOP)‐lowering medications compared to sham (RR 3.89, 95% CI 2.75 to 5.50 and RR 4.54, 95% CI 3.19 to 6.46, respectively; moderate‐certainty evidence); about 4 in 10 participants treated with dexamethasone needed IOP‐lowering medications. 
