Background
Ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) is a potentially serious complication of ovarian stimulation in assisted reproduction technology (ART). It is characterised by enlarged ovaries and an acute fluid shift from the intravascular space to the third space, resulting in bloating, increased risk of venous thromboembolism, and decreased organ perfusion. Most cases are mild, but forms of moderate or severe OHSS appear in 3% to 8% of in vitro fertilisation (IVF) cycles. Dopamine agonists were introduced as a secondary prevention intervention for OHSS in women at high risk of OHSS undergoing ART treatment.  
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of dopamine agonists in preventing OHSS in women at high risk of developing OHSS when undergoing ART treatment. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases from inception to 4 May 2020: Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and PsycINFO for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the effect of dopamine agonists on OHSS rates. We also handsearched reference lists and grey literature. 
Selection criteria
We considered RCTs for inclusion that compared dopamine agonists with placebo/no intervention or another intervention for preventing OHSS in ART. Primary outcome measures were incidence of moderate or severe OHSS and live birth rate. Secondary outcomes were rates of clinical pregnancy, multiple pregnancy, miscarriage, and adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles, abstracts, and full texts of publications; selected studies; extracted data; and assessed risk of bias. We resolved disagreements  by consensus. We reported pooled results as odds ratios (OR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) by the Mantel‐Haenszel method. We applied GRADE criteria to judge overall quality of the evidence. 
Main results
The search identified six new RCTs, resulting in 22 included RCTs involving 3171 women at high risk of OHSS for this updated review. The dopamine agonists were cabergoline, quinagolide, and bromocriptine. 
Dopamine agonists versus placebo or no intervention 
Dopamine agonists probably lowered the risk of moderate or severe OHSS compared to placebo/no intervention (OR 0.32, 95% CI 0.23 to 0.44; 10 studies, 1202 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). This suggests that if the risk of moderate or severe OHSS following placebo/no intervention is assumed to be 27%, the risk following dopamine agonists would be between 8% and 14%. We are uncertain of the effect of dopamine agonists on rates of live birth (OR 0.96, 95% CI 0.60 to 1.55; 3 studies, 362 participants; low‐quality evidence). We are also uncertain of the effect of dopamine agonists on clinical pregnancy, multiple pregnancy, miscarriage  or adverse events (very low to low‐quality evidence). 
Dopamine agonists plus co‐intervention versus co‐intervention 
Dopamine agonist plus co‐intervention (hydroxyethyl starch, human albumin, or withholding ovarian stimulation 'coasting') may decrease the risk of moderate or severe OHSS compared to co‐intervention (OR 0.48, 95% CI 0.28 to 0.84; 4 studies, 748 participants; low‐quality evidence). Dopamine agonists may improve rates of live birth (OR 1.21, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.80; 2 studies, 400 participants; low‐quality evidence). Dopamine agonists may improve rates of clinical pregnancy and miscarriage, but we are uncertain if they improve rates of multiple pregnancy  or adverse events (very low to low‐quality evidence). 
