Background
Asthma education is regarded as an important step in the management of asthma in national guidelines. Racial, ethnicity and socio‐economic factors are associated with markers of asthma severity, including recurrent acute presentations to emergency health facilities. Worldwide, indigenous groups are disproportionately represented in the severe end of the asthma spectrum. Appropriate models of care are important in the successful delivery of services, and are likely contributors to improved outcomes for people with asthma. 
Objectives
To determine whether involvement of an Indigenous healthcare worker (IHW) in comparison to absence of an IHW in asthma education programs, improves asthma related outcomes in indigenous children and adults with asthma. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register, MEDLINE and EMBASE databases, review articles and reference lists of relevant articles. The latest search was in January 2011. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials comparing involvement of an Indigenous healthcare worker (IHW) in comparison to absence of an IHW in asthma education programs for indigenous people with asthma. 
Data collection and analysis
Two independent review authors selected data for inclusion, a single author extracted the data. Both review authors independently assessed study quality. We contacted authors for further information. As it was not possible to analyse data as "intention‐to‐treat", we analysed data as "treatment received". 
Main results
One study fulfilled inclusion criteria involving 113 children randomised to an asthma education programme involving an IHW, compared to a similar education programme without an IHW. Eighty eight of these children completed the trial. Parents' asthma knowledge score (mean difference (MD) (7.49; 95% CI 5.52 to 9.46), parents' asthma skill score (MD 0.98; 95% CI 0.52 to 1.44) and days absent from school (100% school‐aged children in the intervention group missed <7 days, 21% of controls missed 7‐14 days, difference = 21%, 95% CI 5‐36%) were significantly better in the intervention group compared to controls. There was no significant difference in mean number of exacerbations (per year) between groups. There was no difference in quality of life or children's asthma skill score; both were limited to one study only and the direction favoured IHW group. There were no studies in adults. 
