Background
Tardive dyskinesia (TD) is a disabling movement disorder associated with the prolonged use of antipsychotic medication. Several strategies have been examined in the treatment of TD. Currently, however, there is no clear evidence of the effectiveness of these drugs in TD and they have been associated with many side effects. One particular strategy would be to use pharmaceutical agents which are known to influence the catecholaminergic system at various junctures. 
Objectives
1. To determine the effects of any of the following drugs for antipsychotic‐induced TD in people with schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses. i. Drugs which influence the noradrenergic system. ii. Dopamine receptor agonists. iii. Dopamine receptor antagonists. iv. Dopamine‐depletor drugs. v. Drugs that increase the production or release of dopamine. 
2. To examine whether any improvement occurred with short periods of intervention (less than 6 weeks) and, if this did occur, whether this effect was maintained at longer periods of follow‐up. 
3. To examine if there was a differential effect for the various compounds.
4. To examine whether the use of non‐antipsychotic catecholaminergic drugs are most effective in those with more recent onset TD (less than five years). 
Search methods
We retrieved 712 references from searching the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (July 2015 and April 2017). We also inspected references of all identified studies for further trials and contacted authors of trials for additional information. 
Selection criteria
We selected studies if they were randomised controlled trials focusing on people with schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses and antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia. We compared the use of catecholaminergic interventions versus placebo, no intervention, or any other intervention for the treatment of antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia. 
Data collection and analysis
We independently extracted data from these trials and we estimated risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assumed that people who left the studies early had no improvement. 
