Background
Children and adolescents with femoral fractures are almost always admitted to hospital. They invariably start their hospital experience in the Emergency Department, often requiring transfer to a specialist children's hospital. They require analgesia or anaesthesia so that radiographs can be obtained and for management of their fractures. The initial care process involves from two to six transfers from stretcher to stretcher/imaging/operating‐suite table or hospital bed within the first few hours, so prompt pain relief is essential. Systemic analgesia can be provided orally or parenterally. Alternatively, a nerve block may be used where local anaesthetic is injected around a nerve to block sensation or freeze the involved area. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of femoral nerve block (FNB) or fascia iliaca compartment block (FICB) for initial pain management of children with fractures of the femur (thigh bone) in the pre‐hospital or in‐hospital emergency setting, with or without systemic analgesia. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (11 January 2013), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (2012 Issue 12), MEDLINE (1946 to January Week 1 2013), EMBASE (1980 to 2013 Week 01), Google Scholar (31 January 2013) and trial registries (31 January 2013). We handsearched recent issues of specialist journals and references of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials assessing the effects of FNB or FICB for initial pain management compared with systemic opiates in children (aged under 18 years) with fractures of the femur receiving pre‐hospital or in hospital emergency care. Primary outcomes included failure of analgesia at 30 minutes, pain levels during procedures and transfers (e.g. to a stretcher or hospital ward) for up to eight hours, and adverse effects. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data using a pre‐piloted form. Two authors independently assessed the risk of bias for the included study and assessed quality of the evidence for each outcome using the GRADE approach; i.e. as very low, low, moderate or high. Meta‐analysis of results was not possible as we found only one trial that could be included in the review. 
Main results
We included one randomised trial of 55 children aged between 16 months to 15 years. It compared anatomically‐guided FICB versus systemic analgesia with intravenous morphine sulphate. The small sample size and the high risk of bias relating to lack of blinding resulted in a low quality rating for all outcomes. 
