Background
Glaucoma is the leading cause of global irreversible blindness, often associated with raised intraocular pressure (IOP). Where medical or laser treatment has failed or is not tolerated, surgery is often required. Minimally‐invasive surgical approaches have been developed in recent years to reduce IOP with lower surgical risks. Supraciliary microstent surgery for the treatment of open‐angle glaucoma (OAG) is one such approach. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of supraciliary microstent surgery for the treatment of OAG, and to compare with standard medical, laser or surgical treatments. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register; 2020, Issue 8); Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid Embase; the ISRCTN registry; ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO ICTRP. The date of the search was 27 August 2020. 
Selection criteria
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of supraciliary microstent surgery, alone or with cataract surgery, compared to other surgical treatments (cataract surgery alone, other minimally invasive glaucoma device techniques, trabeculectomy), laser treatment or medical treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts from the database search to identify studies that met the selection criteria. Data extraction, analysis, and evaluation of risk of bias from selected studies was performed independently and according to standard Cochrane methodology. 
Main results
One study met the inclusion criteria of this review, evaluating the efficacy and safety of the Cypass supraciliary microstent surgery for the treatment of OAG, comparing phacoemulsification + supraciliary microstent surgery with phacoemulsification alone over 24 months. This study comprised 505 eyes of 505 participants with both OAG and cataract, 374 randomised to the phacoemulsification + microstent group.  
In this study, the perceived risk of bias from random sequence generation, allocation concealment and selective reporting was low. However, we considered the study to be at high risk of performance bias as surgeons/investigators were unmasked. Attrition bias was unclear, with 448/505 participants contributing to per protocol analysis. 
