Background
Safe interventions to enhance cognitive function in cognitively healthy people would be very valuable for several reasons, including a better quality of life and professional success. While L‐carnitine has been reported to enhance cognitive function in some conditions, its efficacy is disputed. The evidence of its efficacy for cognitively healthy people has not previously been systematically reviewed. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of L‐carnitine for the enhancement of cognitive function in people without cognitive impairment. 
Search methods
We searched ALOIS, the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group's Specialized Register, on 4 November 2016. We used the search terms 'L‐carnitine' or 'acetyl‐L‐carnitine' or 'propionyl‐L‐carnitine' or 'ALC' or 'PLC' or 'ALCAR' or 'ALPAR'. We ran additional separate searches in several other sources to ensure that we retrieved the most up‐to‐date results. We also reviewed the bibliographies of the randomised controlled trials identified and contacted the authors and known experts in the field and pharmaceutical companies to identify additional published or unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
Eligible trials were randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐RCTs, parallel‐group or cross‐over, that compared L‐carnitine or its derivatives, acetyl‐L‐carnitine or propionyl‐L‐carnitine, at any dose and for any length of treatment, with placebo or no treatment in cognitively healthy people of any age and either gender. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently selected trials and evaluated the methodological quality, then extracted and analysed data from the included trials. 
Main results
Only two RCTs were eligible. One was a cross‐over trial with 18 participants. The other randomised 400 participants to one of four treatments, of which two (L‐carnitine and placebo) were relevant to this review, but the exact numbers of participants in these two treatment groups was not reported. All participants were young adults. Methodological details were poorly reported, and we considered the risk of bias in both studies to be unclear. The trials assessed different cognitive outcomes. We could extract cognitive data on approximately 200 participants from one trial. We found no evidence that L‐carnitine has any effect on reaction time, vigilance, immediate memory, or delayed recall after three days of treatment. This trial report stated that there was a small number of adverse effects, none of which were serious. The small cross‐over trial also reported no effect of L‐carnitine on cognition, but did not provide data; no information was provided on adverse effects. We considered the available evidence to be of very low quality for all reported outcomes. 
