Background
Initial goal‐directed resuscitation for hypotensive shock usually includes administration of intravenous fluids, followed by initiation of vasopressors. Despite obvious immediate effects of vasopressors on haemodynamics, their effect on patient‐relevant outcomes remains controversial. This review was published originally in 2004 and was updated in 2011 and again in 2016. 
Objectives
Our objective was to compare the effect of one vasopressor regimen (vasopressor alone, or in combination) versus another vasopressor regimen on mortality in critically ill participants with shock. We further aimed to investigate effects on other patient‐relevant outcomes and to assess the influence of bias on the robustness of our effect estimates. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2015 Issue 6), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PASCAL BioMed, CINAHL, BIOSIS and PsycINFO (from inception to June 2015). We performed the original search in November 2003. We also asked experts in the field and searched meta‐registries to identify ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing various vasopressor regimens for hypotensive shock. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors abstracted data independently. They discussed disagreements between them and resolved differences by consulting with a third review author. We used a random‐effects model to combine quantitative data. 
Main results
We identified 28 RCTs (3497 participants) with 1773 mortality outcomes. Six different vasopressors, given alone or in combination, were studied in 12 different comparisons. 
All 28 studies reported mortality outcomes; 12 studies reported length of stay. Investigators reported other morbidity outcomes in a variable and heterogeneous way. No data were available on quality of life nor on anxiety and depression outcomes. We classified 11 studies as having low risk of bias for the primary outcome of mortality; only four studies fulfilled all trial quality criteria. 
