Background
As part of efforts to prevent childhood overweight and obesity, we need to understand the relationship between total fat intake and body fatness in generally healthy children. 
Objectives
To assess the effects and associations of total fat intake on measures of weight and body fatness in children and young people not aiming to lose weight. 
Search methods
For this update we revised the previous search strategy and ran it over all years in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (Ovid), MEDLINE (PubMed), and Embase (Ovid) (current to 23 May 2017). No language and publication status limits were applied. We searched the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov for ongoing and unpublished studies (5 June 2017). 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in children aged 24 months to 18 years, with or without risk factors for cardiovascular disease, randomised to a lower fat (30% or less of total energy (TE)) versus usual or moderate‐fat diet (greater than 30%TE), without the intention to reduce weight, and assessed a measure of weight or body fatness after at least six months. We included prospective cohort studies if they related baseline total fat intake to weight or body fatness at least 12 months later. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data on participants, interventions or exposures, controls and outcomes, and trial or cohort quality characteristics, as well as data on potential effect modifiers, and assessed risk of bias for all included studies. We extracted body weight and blood lipid levels outcomes at six months, six to 12 months, one to two years, two to five years and more than five years for RCTs; and for cohort studies, at baseline to one year, one to two years, two to five years, five to 10 years and more than 10 years. We planned to perform random‐effects meta‐analyses with relevant subgrouping, and sensitivity and funnel plot analyses where data allowed. 
Main results
We included 24 studies comprising three parallel‐group RCTs (n = 1054 randomised) and 21 prospective analytical cohort studies (about 25,059 children completed). Twenty‐three studies were conducted in high‐income countries. No meta‐analyses were possible, since only one RCT reported the same outcome at each time point range for all outcomes, and cohort studies were too heterogeneous to combine. 
Effects of dietary counselling to reduce total fat intake from RCTs 
Two studies recruited children aged between 4 and 11 years and a third recruited children aged 12 to 13 years. Interventions were combinations of individual and group counselling, and education sessions in clinics, schools and homes, delivered by dieticians, nutritionists, behaviourists or trained, supervised teachers. Concerns about imprecision and poor reporting limited our confidence in our findings. In addition, the inclusion of hypercholesteraemic children in two trials raised concerns about applicability. 
One study of dietary counselling to lower total fat intake found that the intervention may make little or no difference to weight compared with usual diet at 12 months (mean difference (MD) ‐0.50 kg, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.78 to 0.78; n = 620; low‐quality evidence) and at three years (MD ‐0.60 kg, 95% CI ‐2.39 to 1.19; n = 612; low‐quality evidence). Education delivered as a classroom curriculum probably decreased BMI in children at 17 months (MD ‐1.5 kg/m2, 95% CI ‐2.45 to ‐0.55; 1 RCT; n = 191; moderate‐quality evidence). The effects were smaller at longer term follow‐up (five years: MD 0 kg/m2, 95% CI ‐0.63 to 0.63; n = 541; seven years; MD ‐0.10 kg/m2, 95% CI ‐0.75 to 0.55; n = 576; low‐quality evidence). 
