Background
Colorectal resection through a midline laparotomy is a commonly performed surgical procedure to treat various bowel conditions. The typical postoperative hospital stay after this operation is 6 to 10 days. The main factors hindering early recovery and discharge are thought to include postoperative pain and delayed return of bowel function. 
Continuous infusion of a local anaesthetic into tissues surrounding the surgical incision via a multi‐lumen indwelling wound catheter placed by the surgeon prior to wound closure may reduce postoperative pain, opioid consumption, the time to return of bowel function, and the length of hospital stay. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and adverse events of continuous local anaesthetic wound infusion for postoperative pain after midline laparotomy for colorectal resection in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE and Embase databases to January 2019 to identify trials relevant to this review. We also searched reference lists of relevant trials and reviews for eligible trials. Additionally, we searched two clinical trials registers for ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised controlled trials (including non‐standard designs) or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing continuous wound infusion of a local anaesthetic versus a placebo or a sham after midline laparotomy for colorectal resection in adults. We did not compare continuous local anaesthetic wound infusion to other techniques, such as transverse abdominis plane block or thoracic epidural analgesia. We allowed non‐randomised analgesic co‐interventions carried out equally in the intervention and control groups. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified trials for inclusion and assessed their quality using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. We extracted data using standardised forms, including pain at rest and on movement (10‐point scale), opioid consumption via a patient‐controlled analgesia (PCA) system (mg morphine equivalent), postoperative opioid‐related adverse events, the time to rescue analgesia, the time to first flatus and to first bowel movement, the time to ambulation, the length of hospital stay, serious postoperative adverse events, and patient satisfaction. We quantitatively synthesised the data by meta‐analysis. We summarised and graded the certainty of the evidence for critical outcomes using the GRADEpro tool and created a 'Summary of findings' table. 
Main results
This review included six randomised controlled trials that enrolled a total of 564 adults undergoing elective midline laparotomy for colorectal resection comparing continuous wound infusion of a local anaesthetic to a normal saline placebo. Due to 23 post‐randomisation exclusions, a total of 541 participants contributed data to the analysis of at least one outcome (local anaesthetic 268; control 273). Most participants were aged 55 to 65 years, with normal body mass index and low to moderate anaesthetic risk (American Society of Anesthesiologists class I‐III). Random sequence generation, allocation concealment, and blinding were appropriately carried out in most trials. However, we had to downgrade the certainty of the evidence for most outcomes due to serious study limitations (risk of bias), inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision and reporting bias. 
