Background
Pelvic floor muscle training is the most commonly recommended physical therapy treatment for women with stress urinary incontinence. It is also sometimes recommended for mixed and, less commonly, urge urinary incontinence. The supervision and content of pelvic floor muscle training programmes are highly variable, and some programmes use additional strategies in an effort to increase adherence or training effects. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of different approaches to pelvic floor muscle training for women with urinary incontinence. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group Specialised Trials Register, which contains trials identified from the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and CINAHL, and handsearching of journals and conference proceedings (searched 17 May 2011), and the reference lists of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials or quasi‐randomised trials in women with stress, urge or mixed urinary incontinence (based on symptoms, signs or urodynamics). One arm of the study included pelvic floor muscle training. Another arm was an alternative approach to pelvic floor muscle training, such as a different way of teaching, supervising or performing pelvic floor muscle training. 
Data collection and analysis
We independently assessed trials for eligibility and methodological quality. We extracted then cross‐checked data. We resolved disagreements by discussion. We processed data as described in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions (version 5.2.2). We subgrouped trials by intervention. 
Main results
We screened 574 records for eligibility and included 21 trials in the review. The 21 trials randomised 1490 women and addressed 11 comparisons. These were: differences in training supervision (amount, individual versus group), in approach (one versus another, the effect of an additional component) and the exercise training (type of contraction, frequency of training). In women with stress urinary incontinence, 10% of those who received weekly or twice‐weekly group supervision in addition to individual appointments with the therapist did not report improvement post‐treatment compared to 43% of the group who had individual appointments only (risk ratio (RR) for no improvement 0.29, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.15 to 0.55, four trials). Looking at this another way, 90% of those who had combined group and individual supervision reported improvement versus 57% of women receiving individual supervision only. While women receiving the combination of frequent group supervision and individual supervision of pelvic floor muscle training were more likely to report improvement, the confidence interval was wide, and more than half of the 'control' group (the women who did not get the additional weekly or twice‐weekly group supervision) reported improvement. This finding, of subjective improvement in both active treatment groups, with more improvement reported by those receiving more health professional contact, was consistent throughout the review. 
