Background
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is an evidence‐based treatment for anxiety disorders. Many people have difficulty accessing treatment, due to a variety of obstacles. Researchers have therefore explored the possibility of using the Internet to deliver CBT; it is important to ensure the decision to promote such treatment is grounded in high quality evidence. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of therapist‐supported Internet CBT (ICBT) on remission of anxiety disorder diagnosis and reduction of anxiety symptoms in adults as compared to waiting list control, unguided CBT, or face‐to‐face CBT. Effects of treatment on quality of life and patient satisfaction with the intervention were also assessed. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Review Group Specialised Register (CCDANCTR) to 16 March 2015. The CCDANCTR includes relevant randomised controlled trials from MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and CENTRAL. We also searched online clinical trial registries and reference lists of included studies. We contacted authors to locate additional trials. 
Selection criteria
Each identified study was independently assessed for inclusion by two authors. To be included, studies had to be randomised controlled trials of therapist‐supported ICBT compared to a waiting list, attention, information, or online discussion group; unguided CBT (that is, self‐help); or face‐to‐face CBT. We included studies that treated adults with an anxiety disorder (panic disorder, agoraphobia, social phobia, post‐traumatic stress disorder, acute stress disorder, generalized anxiety disorder, obsessive compulsive disorder, and specific phobia) defined according to the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders III, III‐R, IV, IV‐TR or the International Classification of Disesases 9 or 10. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the risk of bias of included studies and judged overall study quality. We used data from intention‐to‐treat analyses wherever possible. We assessed treatment effect for the dichotomous outcome of clinically important improvement in anxiety using a risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). For disorder‐specific and general anxiety symptom measures and quality of life we assessed continuous scores using standardized mean differences (SMD). We examined statistical heterogeneity using the I2 statistic. 
Main results
We screened 1736 citations and selected 38 studies (3214 participants) for inclusion. The studies examined social phobia (11 trials), panic disorder with or without agoraphobia (8 trials), generalized anxiety disorder (5 trials), post‐traumatic stress disorder (2 trials), obsessive compulsive disorder (2 trials), and specific phobia (2 trials). Eight remaining studies included a range of anxiety disorder diagnoses. Studies were conducted in Sweden (18 trials), Australia (14 trials), Switzerland (3 trials), the Netherlands (2 trials), and the USA (1 trial) and investigated a variety of ICBT protocols. Three primary comparisons were identified, therapist‐supported ICBT versus waiting list control, therapist‐supported versus unguided ICBT, and therapist‐supported ICBT versus face‐to‐face CBT. 
