The review found seven trials, involving 1497 patients, which met the criteria to be included. The trials were generally of moderate methodological quality; two studies have not published their results on overall survival so the presence of selective outcome reporting bias cannot be ruled out. None of the studies used blinding to treatment allocation, though this is unlikely to have biased the results for overall survival. Studies varied in terms of co‐administered regimen and in terms of treatment line. In four studies, trastuzumab was administered with a chemotherapy, such as a taxane‐containing, anthracycline‐containing or capecitabine‐containing regimen. Two studies considered postmenopausal women and administered trastuzumab with hormone‐blocking medications, such as an aromatase inhibitor. One study administered trastuzumab in addition to lapatinib. Five studies out of seven included women treated with trastuzumab administered until progression as first‐line treatment and two studies considered trastuzumab beyond progression. The combined HRs for overall survival and progression‐free survival favoured the trastuzumab‐containing regimens (HR 0.82, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.71 to 0.94, P = 0.004; and HR 0.61, 95% CI 0.54 to 0.70, P < 0.00001, respectively; moderate‐quality evidence). Trastuzumab increased the risk of congestive heart failure (RR 3.49, 90% CI 1.88 to 6.47, P = 0.0009; moderate‐quality evidence) and left ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) decline (RR 2.65, 90% CI 1.48 to 4.74, P = 0.006). For haematological toxicities, such as neutropenic fever and anaemia, there was no clear evidence that risks differed between groups, while trastuzumab seemed to raise the risk of neutropenia. The overall survival improvement was maintained when considering patients treated as first‐line or patients receiving taxane‐based regimens. The progression‐free survival improvement was maintained when considering patients receiving taxane‐based regimens, and patients treated as first‐line or subsequent lines. Few data were collected on central nervous system progression. Similarly, few studies reported on quality of life and treatment‐related deaths. 