Background
Numerous agents have been suggested for the symptomatic treatment of primary Raynaud's phenomenon. Apart from calcium channel blockers, which are considered to be the drugs of choice, evidence of the effects of alternative pharmacological treatments is limited. This is an update of a review first published in 2008. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of drugs with vasodilator effects on primary Raynaud's phenomenon as determined by frequency, severity, and duration of vasospastic attacks; quality of life; adverse events; and Raynauds Condition Score. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and CINAHL databases, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and the ClinicalTrials.gov trial register to November 16, 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials evaluating effects of oral, intravenous, and topical formulations of any drug with vasodilator effects on subjective symptoms, severity scores, and radiological outcomes in primary Raynaud's phenomenon. Treatment with calcium channel blockers was not assessed in this review, nor were these agents compared. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies for inclusion, assessed studies using the Cochrane "Risk of bias" tool, and extracted study data. Outcomes of interest included frequency, severity, and duration of attacks; quality of life (QoL); adverse events (AEs); and the Raynaud Condition Score (RCS). We assessed the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We identified seven new studies for this update. In total, we included 15 studies involving 635 participants. These studies compared different vasodilators to placebo. Individual studies used different methods and measures to report different outcomes. 
Angiotensin‐converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors  
Combining data from three studies revealed a possible small increase in the frequency of attacks per week after treatment (captopril or enalapril) compared to placebo (mean difference [MD] 0.79, 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.43 to 1.17; low‐certainty evidence). There was no evidence of a difference between groups in severity of attacks (MD ‐0.17, 95% CI ‐4.66 to 4.31; 34 participants, 2 studies; low‐certainty evidence); duration of attacks (MD 0.54, 95% CI ‐2.42 to 1.34; 14 participants, 1 study; low‐certainty evidence); or AEs (risk ratio [RR] 1.35, 95% CI 0.67 to 2.73; 46 participants, 3 studies; low‐certainty evidence). QoL and RCS were not reported. 
Alpha blockers  
Two studies used alpha blockers (buflomedil or moxisylyte). We were unable to combine data due to the way results were presented. Buflomedil probably reduced the frequency of attacks compared to placebo (MD ‐8.82, 95% CI ‐11.04 to ‐6.60; 31 participants, 1 study; moderate‐certainty evidence) and may improve severity scores (MD ‐0.41, 95% CI ‐0.62 to ‐0.30; moderate‐certainty evidence). With moxisylyte, investigators reported fewer attacks (P < 0.02), less severe symptoms (P < 0.01), and shorter duration of attacks, but the clinical relevance of these results is unclear. No evidence of a difference in AEs between buflomedil and placebo groups was noted (RR 1.41, 95% CI 0.27 to 7.28; 31 participants, 1 study; moderate‐certainty evidence). More AEs were observed in participants in the moxisylyte group than in the placebo group. 
