Background
Recurrent miscarriage affects 1% to 3% of women of reproductive age and mostly occurs before the 10th week of gestation (and around the same gestational week in subsequent miscarriages). After a miscarriage, the chances of having another miscarriage in a subsequent pregnancy varies. In some cases, recurrent miscarriages have an underlying cause (related to the mother or her baby) and specific treatments targeting these causes may be effective. However, in most cases the underlying causes may not be identified and recurrent miscarriage is unexplained. 
To date, there is no universally accepted treatment for unexplained recurrent miscarriage. Chinese herbal medicines have been widely used in Asian societies for millennia and have become a popular alternative to Western medicines in recent years. This systematic review evaluated the efficacy of Chinese herbal medicines for recurrent miscarriage. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of Chinese herbal medicines for the treatment of unexplained recurrent miscarriage. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (01 June 2015), Embase (1980 to 01 June 2015); Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (1982 to 01 June 2015); Chinese Biomedical Database (CBM) (1978 to 01 June 2015); China Journal Net (CJN) (1915 to 01 June 2015); China Journals Full‐text Database (1915 to 01 June 2015); and WanFang Database (Chinese Ministry of Science & Technology) (1980 to 01 June 2015). We also searched reference lists of relevant trials and reviews. We identified and contacted organisations, individual experts working in the field, and medicinal herb manufacturers. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials, including cluster‐randomised trials, with or without full text, comparing Chinese herbal medicines (alone or combined with other intervention or other pharmaceuticals) with placebo, no treatment, other intervention (including bed rest and psychological support), or other pharmaceuticals as treatments for unexplained recurrent miscarriage. Cross‐over studies were not eligible for inclusion in this review. 
