Background
The prevalence of substance use, both prescribed and non‐prescribed, is increasing in many areas of the world. Substance use by women of childbearing age contributes to increasing rates of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). Neonatal opioid withdrawal syndrome (NOWS) is a newer term describing the subset of NAS related to opioid exposure. Non‐pharmacological care is the first‐line treatment for substance withdrawal in newborns. Despite the widespread use of non‐pharmacological care to mitigate symptoms of NAS, there is not an established definition of, and standard for, non‐pharmacological care practices in this population. Evaluation of safety and efficacy of non‐pharmacological practices could provide clear guidance for clinical practice. 
Objectives
To evaluate the safety and efficacy of non‐pharmacological treatment of infants at risk for, or having symptoms consistent with, opioid withdrawal on the length of hospitalization and use of pharmacological treatment for symptom management. 
Comparison 1: in infants at risk for, or having early symptoms consistent with, opioid withdrawal, does non‐pharmacological treatment reduce the length of hospitalization and use of pharmacological treatment? 
Comparison 2: in infants receiving pharmacological treatment for symptoms consistent with opioid withdrawal, does concurrent non‐pharmacological treatment reduce duration of pharmacological treatment, maximum and cumulative doses of opioid medication, and length of hospitalization? 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search CENTRAL (2019, Issue 10); Ovid MEDLINE; and CINAHL on 11 October 2019. We also searched clinical trials databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs, and cluster trials. 
Selection criteria
We included trials comparing single or bundled non‐pharmacological interventions to no non‐pharmacological treatment or different single or bundled non‐pharmacological interventions. We assessed non‐pharmacological interventions independently and in combination based on sufficient similarity in population, intervention, and comparison groups studied. We categorized non‐pharmacological interventions as: modifying environmental stimulation, feeding practices, and support of the mother‐infant dyad. We presented non‐randomized studies identified in the search process narratively. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. Primary outcomes in infants at risk for, or having early symptoms consistent with, opioid withdrawal included length of hospitalization and pharmacological treatment with one or more doses of opioid or sedative medication. Primary outcomes in infants receiving opioid treatment for symptoms consistent with opioid withdrawal included length of hospitalization, length of pharmacological treatment with opioid or sedative medication, and maximum and cumulative doses of opioid medication. 
