Background
Lower pole kidney stones typically have poor rates of spontaneous clearance from the body. Some studies have suggested that diuresis, percussion and inversion therapy could be beneficial for people with lower pole kidney stones following shock wave lithotripsy. There is however controversy about the relative benefits, harms, and efficacy of these interventions for the management of lower pole kidney stones. 
Objectives
To identify the benefits and harms of percussion, diuresis, and inversion therapy to facilitate the passage of lower pole kidney stones following shock wave lithotripsy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Renal Group's specialised register up to 27 November 2013 through contact with the Trials' Search Co‐ordinator using search terms relevant to this review. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs looking at the benefits and harms of percussion, diuresis, and inversion therapy for aiding passage of lower pole kidney stones following shock wave lithotripsy were sought for assessment. The first phases of randomised cross‐over studies were also eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed study quality and extracted data. Results were expressed as relative risk (RR) for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference (MD) or standardised mean difference (SMD) for continuous data with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
We identified two small studies (177 participants) for inclusion and analysis. One study (69 participants) compared percussion, diuresis and inversion therapy following shock wave lithotripsy versus observation‐only after shock wave lithotripsy. This study reported significantly higher stone‐free rates in the intervention group (RR 0.62, 95% CI 0.47 to 0.82) and a significant reduction in stone burden (MD ‐3.30, 95% CI ‐3.58 to ‐3.03) compared to the observation‐only group. They reported no significant differences in complication rates (RR 3.00, 95% CI 0.12 to 76.24). 
The second study (108 participants) compared percussion, diuresis, and inversion therapy plus shock wave lithotripsy with shock wave lithotripsy therapy alone. This study reported significantly higher stone‐free rates in the intervention group (RR 0.36, 95% CI 0.17 to 0.80) and a significant reduction in stone burden (MD ‐0.30, 95% CI ‐0.04 to ‐0.56) compared to the control group. They reported no significant differences in complication rates (RR 2.54, 95% CI 0.10 to 63.72). 
