Background
Age‐related cataract affects both eyes in most cases. Most people undergo cataract surgery in both eyes on separate days, referred to as delayed sequential bilateral cataract surgery (DSBCS). An alternative procedure involves operating on both eyes on the same day, but as two separate procedures, known as immediate sequential bilateral cataract surgery (ISBCS). Potential advantages of ISBCS include fewer hospital visits for the patient, faster visual recovery, and lower healthcare costs. Nevertheless, concerns exist about possible bilateral, postoperative, sight‐threatening adverse effects with ISBCS. Therefore, there is a clear need for evaluating evidence regarding the safety, effectiveness, and cost‐effectiveness of ISBCS versus DSBCS. 
Objectives
To assess the safety of ISBCS compared to DSBCS in people with bilateral age‐related cataracts and to summarise current evidence for the incremental resource use, utilities, costs, and cost‐effectiveness associated with the use of ISBCS compared to DSBCS in people with bilateral age‐related cataracts (primary objectives). The secondary objective was to assess visual and patient‐reported outcomes of ISBCS compared to DSBCS in people with bilateral age‐related cataracts. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register; 2021, Issue 5); Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid Embase; the ISRCTN registry; ClinicalTrials.gov; the WHO ICTRP; and DARE and NHS EED on the CRD Database on 11 May 2021. There were no language restrictions. We limited the searches to a date range of 2007 onwards. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to assess complications, refractive outcomes, best‐corrected distance visual acuity (BCDVA) and patient‐reported outcome measures (PROMs) with ISBCS compared to DSBCS. We included non‐randomised (NRSs), prospective, and retrospective cohort studies comparing ISBCS and DSBCS for safety assessment, because of the rare incidence of important adverse events. To assess cost‐effectiveness of ISBCS compared to DSBCS, we included both full and partial economic evaluations, and both trial‐based and model‐based economic evaluations. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures and assessed risk of bias for NRSs using the ROBINS‐I tool. For cost‐evaluations, we used the CHEC‐list, the CHEERS‐checklist, and the NICE‐checklist to investigate risk of bias. We assessed the certainty of evidence with the GRADE tool. We reported results for economic evaluations narratively. 
