Background
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a behaviourally diagnosed condition. It is defined by impairments in social communication or the presence of restricted or repetitive behaviours, or both. Diagnosis is made according to existing classification systems. In recent years, especially following publication of the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders ‐ Fifth Edition (DSM‐5; APA 2013), children are given the diagnosis of ASD, rather than subclassifications of the spectrum such as autistic disorder, Asperger syndrome, or pervasive developmental disorder ‐ not otherwise specified. Tests to diagnose ASD have been developed using parent or carer interview, child observation, or a combination of both. 
Objectives
Primary objectives 
1. To identify which diagnostic tools, including updated versions, most accurately diagnose ASD in preschool children when compared with multi‐disciplinary team clinical judgement. 
2. To identify how the best of the interview tools compare with CARS, then how CARS compares with ADOS. 
a. Which ASD diagnostic tool ‐ among ADOS, ADI‐R, CARS, DISCO, GARS, and 3di ‐ has the best diagnostic test accuracy? 
b. Is the diagnostic test accuracy of any one test sufficient for that test to be suitable as a sole assessment tool for preschool children? 
c. Is there any combination of tests that, if offered in sequence, would provide suitable diagnostic test accuracy and enhance test efficiency? 
d. If data are available, does the combination of an interview tool with a structured observation test have better diagnostic test accuracy (i.e. fewer false‐positives and fewer false‐negatives) than either test alone? 
As only one interview tool was identified, we modified the first three aims to a single aim (Differences between protocol and review): This Review evaluated diagnostic tests in terms of sensitivity and specificity. Specificity is the most important factor for diagnosis; however, both sensitivity and specificity are of interest in this Review because there is an inherent trade‐off between these two factors. 
