Background
Hepatic veno‐occlusive disease (VOD) is a severe complication after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT). Different drugs with different mechanisms of action have been tried in HSCT recipients to prevent hepatic VOD. However, it is uncertain whether high‐quality evidence exists to support any prophylactic therapy. 
Objectives
We aimed to determine the effects of various prophylactic therapies on the incidence of hepatic VOD, overall survival, mortality, quality of life (QOL), and the safety of these therapies in people undergoing HSCT. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Registe of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, conference proceedings of three international haematology‐oncology societies and two trial registries in January 2015, together with reference checking, citation searching and contact with study authors to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing prophylactic therapies with placebo or no treatment, or comparing different therapies for hepatic VOD in people undergoing HSCT. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We included 14 RCTs. Four trials (612 participants) compared ursodeoxycholic acid with or without additional treatment versus placebo or no treatment or same additional treatment. Two trials (259 participants) compared heparin with no treatment. Two trials (106 participants) compared low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) with placebo or no treatment. One trial (360 participants) compared defibrotide with no treatment. One trial (34 participants) compared glutamine with placebo. Two trials (383 participants) compared fresh frozen plasma (FFP) with or without additional treatment versus no treatment or same additional treatment. One trial (30 participants) compared antithrombin III with heparin versus heparin. One trial compared heparin (47 participants) with LMWH (46 participants) and prostaglandin E1 (PGE1) (47 participants). No trial investigated the effects of danaparoid. The RCTs included participants of both genders with wide age range and disease spectrum undergoing autologous or allogeneic HSCT. Funding was provided by government sources (two studies), research fund (one study), pharmaceutical companies that manufactured defibrotide and ursodeoxycholic acid (two studies), or unclear source (nine studies). All RCTs had high risk of bias because of lack of blinding of participants and study personnel, or other risks of bias (mainly differences in baseline characteristics of comparison groups). 
