Background
Palliative radiotherapy to the chest is often used in patients with lung cancer, but radiotherapy regimens are more often based on tradition than research results. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2001 and previously updated in 2006. 
Objectives
The two objectives of this review were:
1. To assess the effects of different palliative radiotherapy regimens on improving thoracic symptoms in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non‐small cell lung cancer who are not suitable for radical RT given with curative intent. 
2. To assess the effects of radiotherapy dose on overall survival in patients with locally advanced or metastatic non‐small cell lung cancer who are not suitable for radical RT given with curative intent. 
Search methods
The electronic databases MEDLINE (1966 ‐ Jan 2014), EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, reference lists, handsearching of journals and conference proceedings, and discussion with experts were used to identify potentially eligible trials, published and unpublished. 
Two authors (FM and RS) independently identified all studies that may be suitable for inclusion in the review. 
We updated the search up to January 2014.
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled clinical trials comparing different regimens of palliative thoracic radiotherapy in patients with non‐small cell lung cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
The reviewers assessed search results independently and possible studies were highlighted and the full text obtained. Data were extracted and attempts were made to contact the original authors for missing information. 
The primary outcome measure was improvement in major thoracic symptoms (degree and duration). Secondary outcome measures were short and long term toxicities, effect on quality of life and overall survival. 
Patient reported outcomes were reported descriptively. Quantitative data such as survival and toxicity were analysed as dichotomous variables and reported using relative risks (RR). 
For this update of the review a meta‐analysis of the survival data was carried out.
Main results
Fourteen randomised controlled trials (3576 patients) were included, with no new studies added in this update. 
There were important differences in the doses of radiotherapy investigated, the patient characteristics including disease stage and performance status and the outcome measures.The doses of RT investigated ranged from 10 Gy in 1 fraction (10Gy/1F) to 60 Gy/30F over six weeks, with a total of 19 different dose/ fractionation regimens. 
Potential biases were identified in some studies. Methods of randomisation, assessment of symptoms and statistical methods used were unclear in some papers. Withdrawal and drop‐outs were accounted for in all but one study. 
All 13 studies that investigated symptoms reported that major thoracic symptoms improved following RT.There is no strong evidence that any regimen gives greater palliation. Higher dose regimens may give more acute toxicity and some regimens are associated with an increased risk of radiation myelitis. Variation in reporting of toxicities, in particular the absence of clear grading, means results of the meta‐analysis should be treated with caution. 
Meta‐analysis of overall survival broken down by performance status, a key variable, is included in this update. Further information was sought from all the original authors if stratified data was not included in the original publication. Three published studies contained sufficient data and seven authors were able to provide further information which represented 1992 patients (56% of all patients). The absence of data for nearly half of the patients has affected the quality of evidence. 
