Background
Construction workers are frequently exposed to various types of injury‐inducing hazards. There are a number of injury prevention interventions, yet their effectiveness is uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of interventions for preventing injuries in construction workers.
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Injuries Group's specialised register, CENTRAL (issue 3), MEDLINE, Embase and PsycINFO up to April 2017. The searches were not restricted by language or publication status. We also handsearched the reference lists of relevant papers and reviews. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials, controlled before‐after (CBA) studies and interrupted time‐series (ITS) of all types of interventions for preventing fatal and non‐fatal injuries among workers at construction sites. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies, extracted data and assessed their risk of bias. For ITS studies, we re‐analysed the studies and used an initial effect, measured as the change in injury rate in the year after the intervention, as well as a sustained effect, measured as the change in time trend before and after the intervention. 
Main results
Seventeen studies (14 ITS and 3 CBA studies) met the inclusion criteria in this updated version of the review. The ITS studies evaluated the effects of: introducing or changing regulations that laid down safety and health requirements for the construction sites (nine studies), a safety campaign (two studies), a drug‐free workplace programme (one study), a training programme (one study), and safety inspections (one study) on fatal and non‐fatal occupational injuries. One CBA study evaluated the introduction of occupational health services such as risk assessment and health surveillance, one evaluated a training programme and one evaluated the effect of a subsidy for upgrading to safer scaffoldings. The overall risk of bias of most of the included studies was high, as it was uncertain for the ITS studies whether the intervention was independent from other changes and thus could be regarded as the main reason of change in the outcome. Therefore, we rated the quality of the evidence as very low for all comparisons. 
Compulsory interventions 
Regulatory interventions at national or branch level may or may not have an initial effect (effect size (ES) of −0.33; 95% confidence interval (CI) −2.08 to 1.41) and may or may not have a sustained effect (ES −0.03; 95% CI −0.30 to 0.24) on fatal and non‐fatal injuries (9 ITS studies) due to highly inconsistent results (I² = 98%). Inspections may or may not have an effect on non‐fatal injuries (ES 0.07; 95% CI −2.83 to 2.97; 1 ITS study). 
Educational interventions 
Safety training interventions may result in no significant reduction of non‐fatal injuries (1 ITS study and 1 CBA study). 
Informational interventions 
We found no studies that had evaluated informational interventions alone such as campaigns for risk communication. 
Persuasive interventions 
We found no studies that had evaluated persuasive interventions alone such as peer feedback on workplace actions to increase acceptance of safe working methods. 
Facilitative interventions 
Monetary subsidies to companies may lead to a greater decrease in non‐fatal injuries from falls to a lower level than no subsidies (risk ratio (RR) at follow‐up: 0.93; 95% CI 0.30 to 2.91 from RR 3.89 at baseline; 1 CBA study). 
Multifaceted interventions 
A safety campaign intervention may result in an initial (ES −1.82; 95% CI −2.90 to −0.74) and sustained (ES −1.30; 95% CI −1.79 to −0.81) decrease in injuries at the company level (1 ITS study), but not at the regional level (1 ITS study). A multifaceted drug‐free workplace programme at the company level may reduce non‐fatal injuries in the year following implementation by −7.6 per 100 person‐years (95% CI −11.2 to −4.0) and in the years thereafter by −2.0 per 100 person‐years (95% CI −3.5 to −0.5) (1 ITS study). Introducing occupational health services may result in no decrease in fatal or non‐fatal injuries (one CBA study). 
