Background
Treatment for lower respiratory tract infections (LRTIs) includes administering complementary oxygen. The effectiveness of oxygen therapy and of different delivery methods remains uncertain. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of oxygen therapy and oxygen delivery methods in the treatment of LRTIs and to define the indications for oxygen therapy in children with LRTIs. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS from March 2008 to October 2014. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or non‐RCTs comparing oxygen versus no oxygen therapy or different methods of oxygen delivery in children with LRTI aged from three months to 15 years. To determine the indications for oxygen therapy, we included observational studies or diagnostic test accuracy studies. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently scanned the search results to identify studies for inclusion. Two authors independently performed the methodological assessment and the third author resolved any disagreements. We calculated risk ratios (RRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for dichotomous outcomes and adverse events (AEs). We performed fixed‐effect meta‐analyses for the estimation of pooled effects whenever there was no heterogeneity between included RCTs. We summarised the results reported in the included observational studies for the clinical indicators of hypoxaemia. 
Main results
In this review update, we included four studies (479 participants) assessing the efficacy of non‐invasive delivery methods for the treatment of LRTI in children and 14 observational studies assessing the clinical sign indicators of hypoxaemia in children with LRTIs. 
Three RCTs (399 participants) compared the effectiveness of nasal prongs or nasal cannula with nasopharyngeal catheter; one non‐RCT (80 participants) compared head box, face mask, nasopharyngeal catheter and nasal cannula. The nasopharyngeal catheter was the control group. Treatment failure was defined as number of children failing to achieve adequate arterial oxygen saturation. All included studies had a high risk of bias because of allocation methods and lack of blinded outcome assessment. 
For nasal prongs versus nasopharyngeal catheter, the pooled effect estimate for RCTs showed a worrying trend towards no difference between the groups (two RCTs; 239 participants; RR 0.93, 95% CI 0.36 to 2.38). Similar results were shown in the one non‐RCT (RR 1.0, 95% CI 0.44 to 2.27). The overall quality of this evidence is very low. Nasal obstruction due to severe mucus production was different between treatment groups (three RCTs, 338 participants; RR 0.20, 95% CI 0.09 to 0.44; I2 statistic = 0%). The quality of this evidence is low. 
The use of a face mask showed a statistically significant lower risk of failure to achieve arterial oxygen > 60 mmHg than the nasopharyngeal catheter (one non‐RCT; 80 participants; odds ratio (OR) 0.20, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.88). 
The use of a head box showed a non‐statistically significant trend towards a reduced risk of treatment failure compared to the nasopharyngeal catheter (one non‐RCT; OR 0.40, 95% CI 0.13 to 1.12). The quality of this evidence is very low. 
