Background
Diabetes is a leading cause of end‐stage kidney disease (ESKD) mainly due to development and progression of diabetic kidney disease (DKD). In absence of definitive treatments of DKD, small studies showed that vitamin B may help in delaying progression of DKD by inhibiting vascular inflammation and endothelial cell damage. Hence, it could be beneficial as a treatment option for DKD. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of vitamin B and its derivatives in patients with DKD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Renal Group's Specialised Register to 29 October 2012 through contact with the Trials' Search Co‐ordinator using search terms relevant to this review. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing vitamin B or its derivatives, or both with placebo, no treatment or active treatment in patients with DKD. We excluded studies comparing vitamin B or its derivatives, or both among patients with pre‐existing ESKD. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed study eligibility, risk of bias and extracted data. Results were reported as risk ratio (RR) or risk differences (RD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes and mean difference (MD) with 95% CI for continuous outcomes. Statistical analyses were performed using the random‐effects model. 
Main results
Nine studies compared 1354 participants randomised to either vitamin B or its derivatives with placebo or active control were identified. A total of 1102 participants were randomised to single vitamin B derivatives, placebo or active control in eight studies, and 252 participants randomised to multiple vitamin B derivatives or placebo. Monotherapy included different dose of pyridoxamine (four studies), benfotiamine (1), folic acid (1), thiamine (1), and vitamin B12 (1) while combination therapy included folic acid, vitamin B6, and vitamin B12 in one study. Treatment duration ranged from two to 36 months. Selection bias was unclear in three studies and low in the remaining six studies. Two studies reported blinding of patient, caregiver and observer and were at low risk of performance and detection bias, two studies were at high risk bias, and five studies were unclear. Attrition bias was high in one study, unclear in one study and low in seven studies. Reporting bias was high in one study, unclear in one study, and low in the remaining seven studies. Four studies funded by pharmaceutical companies were judged to be at high risk bias, three were at low risk of bias, and two were unclear. 
