Background
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; including chronic bronchitis and emphysema) is a chronic respiratory condition characterised by shortness of breath, cough and recurrent exacerbations. Long‐term antibiotic use may reduce both bacterial load and inflammation in the airways. Studies have shown a reduction of exacerbations with antibiotics in comparison to placebo in people with COPD, but there are concerns about antibiotic resistance and safety. 
Objectives
To compare the safety and efficacy of different classes of antibiotics (continuous, intermittent or pulsed) for prophylaxis of exacerbations in patients with COPD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Trials Register and bibliographies of relevant studies. The latest literature search was conducted on 6 February 2019. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were selected that compared one prophylactic antibiotic with another in patients with COPD. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard Cochrane methods. Two independent review authors selected trials for inclusion, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. Discrepancies were resolved by involving a third review author. 
Main results
We included two RCTs, both published in 2015 involving a total of 391 participants with treatment duration of 12 to 13 weeks. One RCT compared a quinolone (moxifloxacin pulsed, for 5 days every 4 weeks), with a tetracycline (doxycycline continuous) or a macrolide (azithromycin intermittent). 
The second RCT compared a tetracycline (doxycycline continuous) plus a macrolide (roxithromycin continuous), with roxithromycin (continuous) alone. 
The trials recruited participants with a mean age of 68 years, with moderate‐severity COPD. Both trials included participants who had between two and five exacerbations in the previous one to two years. In one trial, 17% of patients had previously been using inhaled corticosteroids. In the other study, all patients were positive for Chlamydophila pneumoniae (C pneumoniae). 
Overall, we judged the evidence presented to be of very low‐certainty, mainly due to imprecision, but we also had concerns about indirectness and methodological quality of the included studies. The primary outcome measures for this review included exacerbations, quality of life, drug resistance and serious adverse events. 
