Background
Recurrent endobronchial infection in cystic fibrosis requires treatment with intravenous antibiotics for several weeks usually in hospital, affecting health costs and quality of life for patients and their families. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Objectives
To determine whether home intravenous antibiotic therapy in cystic fibrosis is as effective as inpatient intravenous antibiotic therapy and if it is preferred by individuals or families or both. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. 
Most recent search of the Group's Trials Register: 23 November 2015.
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized controlled studies of intravenous antibiotic treatment for adults and children with cystic fibrosis at home compared to in hospital. 
Data collection and analysis
The authors independently selected studies for inclusion in the review, assessed methodological quality of each study and extracted data using a standardised form. 
Main results
Eighteen studies were identified by the searches. Only one study could be included which reported results from 17 participants aged 10 to 41 years with an infective exacerbation of Pseudomonas aeruginosa. All their 31 admissions (18 hospital and 13 at home after two to four days of hospital treatment) were analysed as independent events. Outcomes were measured at 0, 10 and 21 days after initiation of treatment. Home participants underwent fewer investigations than hospital participants (P < 0.002) and general activity was higher in the home group. No significant differences were found for clinical outcomes, adverse events, complications or change of intravenous lines,or time to next admission. Home participants received less low‐dose home maintenance antibiotic. 
Quality of life measures showed no significant differences for dyspnoea and emotional state, but fatigue and mastery were worse for home participants, possibly due to a higher general activity and need of support. Personal, family, sleeping and eating disruptions were less important for home than hospital admissions. 
