Background
Many workers suffer from work‐related stress and are at increased risk of work‐related cardiovascular, musculoskeletal, or mental disorders. In the European Union the prevalence of work‐related stress was estimated at about 22%. There is consensus that stress, absenteeism, and well‐being of employees can be influenced by leadership behaviour. Existing reviews predominantly included cross‐sectional and non‐experimental studies, which have limited informative value in deducing causal relationships between leadership interventions and health outcomes. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of four types of human resource management (HRM) training for supervisors on employees' psychomental stress, absenteeism, and well‐being. We included training aimed at improving supervisor‐employee interaction, either off‐the‐job or on‐the‐job training, and training aimed at improving supervisors' capability of designing the work environment, either off‐the‐job or on‐the‐job training. 
Search methods
In May 2019 we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, four other databases, and most relevant trials registers (ICTRP, TroPHI, ClinicalTrials.gov). We did not impose any language restrictions on the searches. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCT), cluster‐randomised controlled trials (cRCT), and controlled before‐after studies (CBA) with at least two intervention and control sites, which examined the effects of supervisor training on psychomental stress, absenteeism, and well‐being of employees within natural settings of organisations by means of validated measures. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two authors independently screened abstracts and full texts, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of included studies. We analysed study data from intervention and control groups with respect to different comparisons, outcomes, follow‐up time, study designs, and intervention types. We pooled study results by use of standardised mean differences (SMD) with 95% confidence intervals when possible. We assessed the quality of evidence for each outcome using the GRADE approach. 
