Background
Dialysis treatments weigh heavily on patients' physical and psychosocial health. Multiple studies have assessed the potential for exercise training to improve outcomes in adults undergoing dialysis. However, uncertainties exist in its relevance and sustainable benefits for patient‐important outcomes. This is an update of a review first published in 2011. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and safety of regular structured exercise training in adults undergoing dialysis on patient‐important outcomes including death, cardiovascular events, fatigue, functional capacity, pain, and depression. We also aimed to define the optimal prescription of exercise in adults undergoing dialysis. 
Search methods
In this update, we conducted a systematic search of the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 23 December 2020. The Register includes studies identified from CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov as well as kidney‐related journals and the proceedings of major kidney conferences. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs of any structured exercise programs of eight weeks or more in adults undergoing maintenance dialysis compared to no exercise or sham exercise. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the search results for eligibility, extracted the data and assessed the risk of bias using the Cochrane risk of bias tool. Whenever appropriate, we performed random‐effects meta‐analyses of the mean difference in outcomes. The primary outcomes were death (any cause), cardiovascular events and fatigue. Secondary outcomes were health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), depression, pain, functional capacity, blood pressure, adherence to the exercise program, and intervention‐related adverse events. 
Main results
We identified 89 studies involving 4291 randomised participants, of which 77 studies (3846 participants) contributed to the meta‐analyses. Seven studies included adults undergoing peritoneal dialysis. Fifty‐six studies reported aerobic exercise interventions, 21 resistance exercise interventions and 19 combined aerobic and resistance training within the same study arm. The interventions lasted from eight weeks to two years and most often took place thrice weekly during dialysis treatments. A single study reported death and no study reported long‐term cardiovascular events. Five studies directly assessed fatigue, 46 reported HRQoL and 16 reported fatigue or pain through their assessment of HRQoL. Thirty‐five studies assessed functional capacity, and 21 reported resting peripheral blood pressure. Twelve studies reported adherence to exercise sessions, and nine reported exercise‐related adverse events. Overall, the quality of the included studies was low and blinding of the participants was generally not feasible due to the nature of the intervention. 
