Background
Cerebral palsy is an umbrella term that encompasses disorders of movement and posture attributed to non‐progressive disturbances occurring in the developing foetal or infant brain. As there are diverse risk factors and aetiologies, no one strategy will prevent cerebral palsy. Therefore, there is a need to systematically consider all potentially relevant interventions for prevention. 
Objectives
Primary  
To summarise the evidence from Cochrane Systematic Reviews regarding effects of neonatal interventions for preventing cerebral palsy (reducing cerebral palsy risk). 
Secondary  
To summarise the evidence from Cochrane Systematic Reviews regarding effects of neonatal interventions that may increase cerebral palsy risk. 
Methods
We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (27 November 2016) for reviews of neonatal interventions reporting on cerebral palsy. Two review authors assessed reviews for inclusion, extracted data, and assessed review quality (using AMSTAR and ROBIS) and quality of the evidence (using the GRADE approach). Reviews were organised by topic; findings were summarised in text and were tabulated. Interventions were categorised as effective (high‐quality evidence of effectiveness); possibly effective (moderate‐quality evidence of effectiveness); ineffective (high‐quality evidence of harm); probably ineffective (moderate‐quality evidence of harm or lack of effectiveness); and no conclusions possible (low‐ to very low‐quality evidence). 
Main results
Forty‐three Cochrane Reviews were included. A further 102 reviews pre‐specified the outcome cerebral palsy, but none of the included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) reported this outcome. Included reviews were generally of high quality and had low risk of bias, as determined by AMSTAR and ROBIS. These reviews involved 454 RCTs; data for cerebral palsy were available from 96 (21%) RCTs involving 15,885 children. Review authors considered interventions for neonates with perinatal asphyxia or with evidence of neonatal encephalopathy (3); interventions for neonates born preterm and/or at low or very low birthweight (33); and interventions for other specific groups of 'at risk' neonates (7). Quality of evidence (GRADE) ranged from very low to high. 
