Background
Indomethacin is a prostaglandin inhibitor used to treat patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in preterm infants. Although indomethacin produces ductal closure in the majority of cases, it is ineffective in up to 40% of patients. Furthermore, the ductus will re‐open in up to 35% of infants who initially respond to the drug. Prolonging the course of indomethacin has the potential to achieve higher rates of ductal closure. 
Objectives
To determine the effect of a prolonged course of indomethacin (compared to a short course) on the rate of treatment failure without unwanted side‐effects in preterm infants with PDA. 
Search methods
The search included review of personal files, abstracts of conferences, and the following electronic databases: MEDLINE (1966 to December 2006), EMBASE (1974 to December 2006), and Oxford Database of Perinatal Trials, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2006). No language restrictions were applied. 
Selection criteria
Randomized or quasi‐randomized controlled trials including preterm infants with PDA, diagnosed on clinical and/or echocardiographic examination that evaluated indomethacin treatment by any route given as a long course (four or more doses) vs. a short course (three or fewer doses) were included in the review. Trials needed to report on at least one of the following outcomes: failure of PDA to close, need for re‐treatment, PDA re‐opening, PDA ligation, mortality, duration of assisted ventilation, chronic lung disease (CLD), duration of supplemental oxygen dependence, intraventricular hemorrhage (IVH) (all and severe), diminished urine output, increased serum creatinine, necrotizing enterocolitis (NEC), bleeding diathesis, retinopathy of prematurity (ROP), and duration of hospital stay. 
Data collection and analysis
The three review authors independently abstracted data from each study. Relative risk (RR) and Risk Difference (RD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) using the fixed effect model for meta‐analysis are reported. When a statistically significant RD was found, the number needed to treat (NNT) or number needed to harm (NNH) was also calculated with 95% CIs. The I squared statistic was used to test for heterogeneity of results among included trials. 
