Background
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is characterised by infrequent or absent ovulation, and high levels of androgens and insulin (hyperinsulinaemia). Hyperinsulinaemia occurs secondary to insulin resistance and is associated with increased risk of cardiovascular disease and diabetes mellitus. Insulin‐sensitising agents such as metformin may be effective in treating PCOS‐related anovulation. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of insulin‐sensitising drugs in improving reproductive and metabolic outcomes for women with PCOS undergoing ovulation induction. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases from inception to January 2017: Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and CINAHL. We searched registers of ongoing trials and reference lists from relevant studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials of insulin‐sensitising drugs compared with placebo, no treatment, or an ovulation‐induction agent for women with oligo and anovulatory PCOS. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for eligibility and bias. Primary outcomes were live birth rate and gastrointestinal adverse effects. Secondary outcomes included other pregnancy outcomes, menstrual frequency and metabolic effects. We combined data to calculate pooled odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed statistical heterogeneity using the I2 statistic and reported quality of the evidence for primary outcomes using GRADE methodology. 
Main results
We assessed the interventions metformin, clomiphene citrate, metformin plus clomiphene citrate, D‐chiro‐inositol, rosiglitazone and pioglitazone. We compared these with each other, placebo or no treatment. We included 48 studies (4451 women), 42 of which investigated metformin (4024 women). Evidence quality ranged from very low to moderate. Limitations were risk of bias (poor reporting of methodology and incomplete outcome data), imprecision and inconsistency. 
