Background
Clavicle (collarbone) fractures account for around 4% of all fractures. Most (76%) clavicle fractures involve the middle‐third section of the clavicle. Treatment of these fractures is usually non‐surgical (conservative). Commonly used treatments are arm slings, strapping and figure‐of‐eight bandages. 
This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2009 and updated in 2014.
Objectives
To evaluate the effects (benefits and harms) of different methods for conservative (non‐operative) treatment for acute (treated soon after injury) middle third clavicle fractures in adolescents and adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE (from 1966), Embase (from 1980), LILACS (from 1982), trial registers, orthopaedic proceedings and reference lists of articles. We applied no language or publication restrictions. The date of the last search was 5 January 2016. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials testing conservative interventions for treating adolescents and adults with acute middle third clavicle fractures. The primary outcomes were shoulder function or disability, pain and treatment failure. 
Data collection and analysis
For this update, two review authors selected eligible trials, independently assessed risk of bias and cross‐checked data extraction. We calculated risk ratios and 95% confidence intervals for dichotomous variables, and mean differences and 95% confidence intervals for continuous variables. There was very limited pooling of data. 
Main results
We included four trials in this review with 416 participants, who were aged 14 years or above. One new trial was included in this update. 
Very low quality evidence was available from three trials (296 participants) that compared the figure‐of‐eight bandage with an arm sling for treating acute middle third clavicle fractures. The three trials were underpowered and compromised by poor methodology. Shoulder function was assessed in different ways in the three trials (data for 51, 61 and 152 participants); each trial provided very low quality evidence of similar shoulder function in the two groups. Pooled data from two trials (203 participants) showed no clinical difference between groups after two weeks in pain (visual analogue scale: 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst pain); mean difference (MD) 0.43, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.35 to 1.21; I² = 74%; very low quality evidence). A third trial (61 participants) provided very low quality evidence based on a non‐validated scoring system of more pain and discomfort during the course of treatment in the figure‐of‐eight group. Treatment failure, measured in terms of subsequent surgery, was not reported in two trials; the third trial (152 participants) reported one participant in the arm sling group had surgery for secondary plexus nerve palsy. There was very low quality evidence from one trial (148 participants) of little difference in time to clinical fracture healing (MD 0.2 weeks, 95% CI ‐0.11 to 0.51); data from four non‐symptomatic non‐unions in the figure‐of‐eight group were not included. The very low evidence quality data for individual adverse outcomes (poor cosmetic appearance; change in allocated treatment due to pain and discomfort, worsened fracture position on healing; shortening > 15 mm; non‐symptomatic non‐union and permanent pain) did not confirm a difference between the two groups. There was no clear between group difference in the time to return to school or work activities (MD ‐0.12 weeks, 95% CI ‐0.69 to 0.45; 176 participants; very low quality evidence). 
