Background
Advanced renal cell carcinoma has been resistant to drug therapy of different types and new types of drug therapy are needed. Targeted agents inhibit known molecular pathways and have been tested in renal cancer for just over a decade. 
Objectives
1) To provide a systematic and regularly updated review of randomized studies testing targeted agents in advanced renal cell cancer.  2) To identify the type and degree of clinical benefit of targeted agents over the prevailing standard of care. 
Search methods
Period of search: January 2000 to June 2010.  1) Electronic search of CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE databases.  2) Hand search of international cancer meeting abstracts. 
Selection criteria
Randomized, controlled studies, including a targeted agent in patients with advanced renal cell cancer reporting any pre‐specified cancer outcome by allocation. 
Data collection and analysis
The majority of the standardized search and data extraction was conducted independently by two investigators with subsequent resolution of differences. Handsearching, quality of life and toxicity data extraction, most of the initial analysis, and risk of bias assessment, was carried out by one investigator and verified by additional authors as required. Twenty‐five fully eligible studies tested thirteen different targeted agents in a total of 7484 patients with mostly Stage IV disease; 61% had not received prior systemic treatment. The majority of patients were good performance status (ECOG (Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group) 0 to 1). Most comparisons were each examined in only a single study. Risk of bias was considered low for studies that were placebo‐controlled, had a primary outcome of overall survival, or that evaluated progression by independent radiologic reviewers unaware of the intervention allocation. 
Main results
Most progress has been made in patients with advanced renal cancer of the clear cell subtype, a condition with a clearly defined molecular pathology promoting angiogenesis. In systemically untreated patients, two approaches to angiogenesis inhibition have demonstrated benefit. Compared with interferon‐alfa monotherapy, oral sunitinib improved multiple outcomes including overall survival (18% risk reduction for death; median survival improved from 21.8 to 26.4 months, P = 0.049) without correction for crossover) in patients with mostly good or moderate prognosis. In the same setting, two studies have shown that the addition of biweekly intravenous bevacizumab to interferon‐alfa also improved the chance of major remission and prolonged progression‐free survival. These two bevacizumab plus interferon studies each observed improved overall survival approaching statistical significance (each study observed a 14% risk reduction for death). Additional anti‐angiogenesis agents, such as pazopanib and tivozanib, are in earlier stages of evaluation.  After progression of clear cell disease on prior cytokine therapy, oral sorafenib results in a better quality of life than placebo. In patients with clear cell disease with progression on or within 6 months of first‐line targeted therapy with sunitinib or sorafenib, the targeted oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor everolimus resulted in prolonged disease‐free survival without detriment to quality of life. Remissions were very infrequent and no improvement in overall survival was observed in this study where the majority of placebo‐assigned patients received everolimus at disease progression.  In untreated patients with unselected renal cancer histology and poor prognostic features, weekly intravenous temsirolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, improved outcomes compared with interferon‐alfa (median overall survival improved from 7.3 to 10.9 months, P = 0.008). Of particular interest, an exploratory analysis observed a marked reduction in hazard for death in the non‐clear cell subgroup.  Combinations of targeted agents are being evaluated, but toxicity is problematic. 
Authors' conclusions
Several agents with specified molecular targets have demonstrated clinically useful benefits over interferon‐alfa, and also after either prior cytokine or initial anti‐angiogenesis therapy. More research is required to fully establish the role of targeted agents in this condition. 
