Background
Asthma remains a significant cause of avoidable morbidity and mortality. Regular check‐ups with a healthcare professional are essential to monitor symptoms and adjust medication. 
Health services worldwide are considering telephone and internet technologies as a way to manage the rising number of people with asthma and other long‐term health conditions. This may serve to improve health and reduce the burden on emergency and inpatient services. Remote check‐ups may represent an unobtrusive and efficient way of maintaining contact with patients, but it is uncertain whether conducting check‐ups in this way is effective or whether it may have unexpected negative consequences. 
Objectives
To assess the safety and efficacy of conducting asthma check‐ups remotely versus usual face‐to‐face consultations. 
Search methods
We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Review Group Specialised Register (CAGR) up to 24 November 2015. We also searched www.clinicaltrials.gov, the World Health Organization (WHO) trials portal, reference lists of other reviews and contacted trial authors for additional information. 
Selection criteria
We included parallel randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of adults or children with asthma that compared remote check‐ups conducted using any form of technology versus standard face‐to‐face consultations. We excluded studies that used automated telehealth interventions that did not include personalised contact with a health professional. We included studies reported as full‐text articles, as abstracts only and unpublished data. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened the literature search results and independently extracted risk of bias and numerical data. We resolved any disagreements by consensus, and we contacted study authors for missing information. 
We analysed dichotomous data as odds ratios (ORs) using study participants as the unit of analysis, and continuous data as mean differences using the random‐effects models. We rated all outcomes using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. 
Main results
Six studies including a total of 2100 participants met the inclusion criteria: we pooled four studies including 792 people in the main efficacy analyses, and presented the results of a cluster implementation study (n = 1213) and an oral steroid tapering study (n = 95) separately. Baseline characteristics relating to asthma severity were variable, but studies generally recruited people with asthma taking regular medications and excluded those with COPD or severe asthma. One study compared the two types of check‐up for oral steroid tapering in severe refractory asthma and we assessed it as a separate question. The studies could not be blinded and dropout was high in four of the six studies, which may have biased the results. 
