Background
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review previously published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2015, Issue 10. Epilepsy is a common neurological condition, characterised by recurrent seizures. Most people respond to conventional antiepileptic drugs, however, around 30% will continue to experience seizures, despite treatment with multiple antiepileptic drugs. Sulthiame, also known as sultiame, is a widely used antiepileptic drug in Europe and Israel. We present a summary of the evidence for the use of sulthiame as add‐on therapy in epilepsy. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of sulthiame as add‐on therapy for people with epilepsy of any aetiology compared with placebo or another antiepileptic drug. 
Search methods
For the latest update, we searched the Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web), which includes the Cochrane Epilepsy Group's Specialized Register and CENTRAL (17 January 2019), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to January 16, 2019), ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO ICTRP Search Portal (17 January 2019). We imposed no language restrictions. We contacted the manufacturers of sulthiame, and researchers in the field to seek any ongoing or unpublished studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of add‐on sulthiame, with any level of blinding (single, double or unblinded) in people of any age, with epilepsy of any aetiology. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, and extracted relevant data. We assessed these outcomes: (1) 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency between baseline and end of follow‐up; (2) complete cessation of seizures during follow‐up; (3) mean seizure frequency; (4) time‐to‐treatment withdrawal; (5) adverse effects; and (6) quality of life. We used intention‐to‐treat for primary analyses. We presented results as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). However, due to the paucity of trials, we mainly conducted a narrative analysis. 
