Background
The benefits of breastfeeding are well known, and the World Health Organization recommends exclusive breastfeeding for the first six months of life and continuing breastfeeding to age two. However, many women stop breastfeeding due to lactational breast abscesses. A breast abscess is a localised accumulation of infected fluid in breast tissue. Abscesses are commonly treated with antibiotics, incision and drainage (I&D) or ultrasound‐guided needle aspiration, but there is no consensus on the optimal treatment. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different treatments for the management of breast abscesses in breastfeeding women. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group’s Trial Register (27 February 2015). In addition we searched African Journals Online (27 February 2015), Google Scholar (27 February 2015), ProQuest Dissertations and Theses Databases (27 February 2015) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) search portal (27 February 2015). We also checked reference lists of retrieved studies and contacted experts in the field as well as relevant pharmaceutical companies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) investigating any intervention for treating lactational breast abscesses compared with any other intervention. Studies published in abstract form, quasi‐RCTs and cluster‐RCTs were not eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included six studies. Overall, trials had an unclear risk of bias for most domains due to poor reporting. Two studies did not stratify data for lactational and non‐lactational breast abscesses, and these studies do not contribute to the results. This review is based on data from four studies involving 325 women. 
Needle aspiration (with and without ultrasound guidance) versus incision and drainage (I&D) 
Mean time (days) to complete resolution of breast abscess (three studies) ‐ there was substantial heterogeneity among these data (Tau2 = 47.63, I2 = 97%) and a clear difference between subgroups (with or without ultrasound guidance; Chi2 = 56.88, I2 = 98.2%, P = < 0.00001). We did not pool these data in a meta‐analysis. Two studies excluded women who had treatment failure when they calculated the mean time to complete resolution. One study found that the time to complete resolution of breast abscess favoured needle aspiration over I&D (mean difference (MD) ‐6.07; 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐7.81 to ‐4.33; n = 36), but excluded 9/22 (41%) women in the needle aspiration group due to treatment failure. Another study reported faster resolution in the needle aspiration group (MD ‐17.80; 95% CI ‐21.27 to ‐14.33; n = 64) but excluded 6/35 (17%) women in the needle aspiration group due to treatment failure. A third study also reported that needle aspiration was associated with a shorter time to complete resolution of breast abscess (MD ‐16.00; 95%CI ‐18.73 to ‐13.27; n = 60); however, the authors did not indicate the number of women who were lost to follow‐up for either group, and it is unclear how many women contributed to this result. Considering the limitations of the available data, we do not consider the results to be informative. 
