Background
Simple bone cysts, also known as a unicameral bone cysts or solitary bone cysts, are the most common type of benign bone lesion in growing children. Cysts may lead to repeated pathological fracture (fracture that occurs in an area of bone weakened by a disease process). Occasionally, these fractures may result in symptomatic malunion. The main goals of treatment are to decrease the risk of pathological fracture, enhance cyst healing and resolve pain. Despite the numerous treatment methods that have been used for simple bone cysts in long bones of children, there is no consensus on the best procedure. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2014. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of interventions for treating simple bone cysts in the long bones of children, including adolescents. 
We intended the following main comparisons: invasive (e.g. injections, curettage, surgical fixation) versus non‐invasive interventions (e.g. observation, plaster cast, restricted activity); different categories of invasive interventions (i.e. injections, curettage, drilling holes and decompression, surgical fixation and continued decompression); different variations of each category of invasive intervention (e.g. different injection substances: autologous bone marrow versus steroid). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, the China National Knowledge Infrastructure Platform, trial registers, conference proceedings and reference lists. Date of last search: April 2016. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials evaluating methods for treating simple bone cysts in the long bones of children. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened search results and performed study selection. We resolved differences in opinion between review authors by discussion and by consulting a third review author. Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias and data extraction. We summarised data using risk ratios (RRs) or mean differences (MDs), as appropriate, and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development, and Evaluation (GRADE) system to assess the overall quality of the evidence. 
