Background
Neonatal hypoglycaemia, a common condition, can be associated with brain injury. It is frequently managed by providing infants with an alternative source of glucose, often given enterally with milk‐feeding or intravenously with dextrose solution, which may decrease breastfeeding success. Intravenous dextrose also often requires that mother and baby are cared for in separate environments. Oral dextrose gel is simple and inexpensive, and can be administered directly to the buccal mucosa for rapid correction of hypoglycaemia, in association with continued breastfeeding and maternal care. 
This is an update of a previous review published in 2016.
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of oral dextrose gel in correcting hypoglycaemia in newborn infants from birth to discharge home and reducing long‐term neurodevelopmental impairment. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, and Embase from database inception to October 2021.  We also searched international clinical trials networks, the reference lists of included trials, and relevant systematic reviews identified in the search.  
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs comparing oral dextrose gel versus placebo, no treatment, or other therapies for the treatment of neonatal hypoglycaemia in newborn infants from birth to discharge home. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study quality and extracted data; they did not assess publications for which they were study authors. We contacted investigators to obtain additional information. We used fixed‐effect models and the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
Main results
We included two studies conducted in high‐income countries, involving 312 late preterm and at‐risk term infants and comparing oral dextrose gel (40% concentration) to placebo gel. One study was at low risk of bias, and the other (an abstract) was at unclear to high risk of bias. Oral dextrose gel compared with placebo gel probably increases correction of hypoglycaemic events (rate ratio 1.08, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.98 to 1.20; rate difference 66 more per 1000, 95% CI 17 fewer to 166 more; 1 study; 237 infants; moderate‐certainty evidence), and may result in a slight reduction in the risk of major neurological disability at age two years or older, but the evidence is uncertain (risk ratio (RR) 0.46, 95% CI 0.09 to 2.47; risk difference (RD) 24 fewer per 1000, 95% CI 41 fewer to 66 more; 1 study, 185 children; low‐certainty evidence). The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of oral dextrose gel compared with placebo gel or no gel on the need for intravenous treatment for hypoglycaemia (RR 0.78, 95% CI 0.46 to 1.32; RD 37 fewer per 1000, 95% CI 91 fewer to 54 more; 2 studies, 312 infants; very low‐certainty evidence). Investigators in one study of 237 infants reported no adverse events (e.g. choking or vomiting at the time of administration) in the oral dextrose gel or placebo gel group (low‐certainty evidence).  
Oral dextrose gel compared with placebo gel probably reduces the incidence of separation from the mother for treatment of hypoglycaemia (RR 0.54, 95% CI 0.31 to 0.93; RD 116 fewer per 1000, 95% CI 174 fewer to 18 fewer; 1 study, 237 infants; moderate‐certainty evidence), and increases the likelihood of exclusive breastfeeding after discharge (RR 1.10, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.18; RD 87 more per 1000, 95% CI 9 more to 157 more; 1 study, 237 infants; moderate‐certainty evidence).   
Authors' conclusions
Oral dextrose gel (specifically 40% dextrose concentration) used to treat hypoglycaemia in newborn infants (specifically at‐risk late preterm and term infants) probably increases correction of hypoglycaemic events, and may result in a slight reduction in the risk of major neurological disability at age two years or older. Oral dextrose gel treatment probably reduces the incidence of separation from the mother for treatment and increases the likelihood of exclusive breastfeeding after discharge. No adverse events have been reported. 
Oral dextrose gel is probably an effective and safe first‐line treatment for infants with neonatal hypoglycaemia in high‐income settings.  
More evidence is needed about the effects of oral dextrose gel treatment on later neurological disability and the need for other treatments for hypoglycaemia. Future studies should be conducted in low‐and middle‐income settings, in extremely and moderately preterm infants, and compare oral dextrose gel with other therapies such as intravenous dextrose. There are two ongoing studies that may alter the conclusions of this review when published. 
