Background
Controversy exists as to whether adjuvant chemotherapy improves survival in patients with invasive bladder cancer, despite a number of randomised controlled trials. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effect of adjuvant chemotherapy in invasive bladder cancer. We conducted a systematic review and meta‐analysis of updated individual patient data from all available randomised controlled trials comparing local treatment plus adjuvant chemotherapy versus the same local treatment alone. 
Search methods
MEDLINE and CancerLit searches were supplemented with information from registers and hand searching meeting proceedings and also by discussion with relevant trialists and organisations. They have been regularly updated until September 2004. 
Selection criteria
Trials that aimed to randomise patients with biopsy proven invasive (i.e. clinical stage T2 to T4a) transitional cell carcinoma of the bladder to receive local definitive treatment with or without adjuvant chemotherapy were eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
We collected, validated and re‐analysed updated data on all randomised patients from all available randomised trials, including 491 patients from 6 RCTs. For all outcomes, we obtained overall pooled hazard ratios using the fixed effects model. To explore the potential impact of trial design, we pre‐planned analyses that grouped trials by important aspects of their design that might influence the treatment effect. To investigate any differences in effect by pre‐defined patient sub‐groups, we used a stratified logrank analysis on the primary endpoint of survival. 
Main results
Analyses were based on 491 patients from six trials, representing 90% of all patients randomised in cisplatin‐based combination chemotherapy trials and 66% of patients from all eligible trials. The power of this meta‐analysis is clearly limited. The overall hazard ratio for survival of 0.75 (95% CI 0.60 to 0.96, P = 0.019) suggests a 25% relative reduction in the risk of death for chemotherapy compared to that on control. Cox regression suggests that small imbalances in patient characteristics do not bias the results in favour of chemotherapy. However, the impact of trials that stopped early, of patients not receiving allocated treatments or not receiving salvage chemotherapy is less clear. 
