Background
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a common medical condition that complicates pregnancy and causes adverse maternal and fetal outcomes. At present, most treatment strategies focus on normalisation of maternal blood glucose values with use of diet, lifestyle modification, exercise, oral anti‐hyperglycaemics and insulin. This has been shown to reduce the incidence of adverse outcomes, such as birth trauma and macrosomia. However, this involves intensive monitoring and treatment of all women with GDM. We propose that using medical imaging to identify pregnancies displaying signs of being affected by GDM could help to target management, allowing low‐risk women to be spared excessive intervention, and facilitating better resource allocation. 
Objectives
We wanted to address the following question: in women with gestational diabetes, does the use of fetal imaging plus maternal blood glucose concentration to indicate the need for medical management compared with glucose concentration alone reduce the risk of adverse perinatal outcomes? 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register (29 January 2019), ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (both on 29 January 2019), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials, including those published in abstract form only. Studies using a cluster‐randomised design and quasi‐randomised controlled trials were both eligible for inclusion, but we didn't identify any. Cross‐over trials were not eligible for inclusion in our review. 
We included women carrying singleton pregnancies who were diagnosed with GDM, as defined by the trials' authors. The intervention of interest was the use of fetal biometry on imaging methods in addition to maternal glycaemic values for indicating the use of medical therapy for GDM. The control group was the use of maternal glycaemic values alone for indicating the use of such therapy. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and assessed risk of bias. Two review authors extracted data and checked them for accuracy. 
Main results
Three randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria for our systematic review ‐ the studies randomised a total of 524 women. 
