Background
Exposure to light plays a crucial role in biological processes, influencing mood and alertness. Daytime workers may be exposed to insufficient or inappropriate light during daytime, leading to mood disturbances and decreases in levels of alertness. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of lighting interventions to improve alertness and mood in daytime workers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, seven other databases; ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization trials portal up to January 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), and non‐randomised controlled before‐after trials (CBAs) that employed a cross‐over or parallel‐group design, focusing on any type of lighting interventions applied for daytime workers. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened references in two stages, extracted outcome data and assessed risk of bias. We used standardised mean differences (SMDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) to pool data from different questionnaires and scales assessing the same outcome across different studies. We combined clinically homogeneous studies in a meta‐analysis. We used the GRADE system to rate quality of evidence. 
Main results
The search yielded 2844 references. After screening titles and abstracts, we considered 34 full text articles for inclusion. We scrutinised reports against the eligibility criteria, resulting in the inclusion of five studies (three RCTs and two CBAs) with 282 participants altogether. These studies evaluated four types of comparisons: cool‐white light, technically known as high correlated colour temperature (CCT) light versus standard illumination; different proportions of indirect and direct light; individually applied blue‐enriched light versus no treatment; and individually applied morning bright light versus afternoon bright light for subsyndromal seasonal affective disorder. 
We found no studies comparing one level of illuminance versus another.
We found two CBA studies (163 participants) comparing high CCT light with standard illumination. By pooling their results via meta‐analysis we found that high CCT light may improve alertness (SMD −0.69, 95% CI −1.28 to −0.10; Columbia Jet Lag Scale and the Karolinska Sleepiness Scale) when compared to standard illumination. In one of the two CBA studies with 94 participants there was no difference in positive mood (mean difference (MD) 2.08, 95% CI −0.1 to 4.26) or negative mood (MD −0.45, 95% CI −1.84 to 0.94) assessed using the Positive and Negative Affect Schedule (PANAS) scale. High CCT light may have fewer adverse events than standard lighting (one CBA; 94 participants). Both studies were sponsored by the industry. We graded the quality of evidence as very low. 
We found no studies comparing light of a particular illuminance and light spectrum or CCT versus another combination of illuminance and light spectrum or CCT. 
