Background
This is an update of a review published in 2012. A related review "Inhaled versus systemic corticosteroids for preventing bronchopulmonary dysplasia in ventilated very low birth weight preterm neonates" has been updated as well. Bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) is a serious and common problem among very low birth weight infants, despite the use of antenatal steroids and postnatal surfactant therapy to decrease the incidence and severity of respiratory distress syndrome. Due to their anti‐inflammatory properties, corticosteroids have been widely used to treat or prevent BPD. However, the use of systemic steroids has been associated with serious short‐ and long‐term adverse effects. Administration of corticosteroids topically through the respiratory tract may result in beneficial effects on the pulmonary system with fewer undesirable systemic side effects. 
Objectives
To compare the effectiveness of inhaled versus systemic corticosteroids administered to ventilator‐dependent preterm neonates with birth weight ≤ 1500 g or gestational age ≤ 32 weeks after 7 days of life on the incidence of death or BPD at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2017, Issue 1), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 23 February 2017), Embase (1980 to 23 February 2017), and CINAHL (1982 to 23 February 2017). We also searched clinical trials registers, conference proceedings and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing inhaled versus systemic corticosteroid therapy (irrespective of dose and duration) starting after the first week of life in ventilator‐dependent very low birth weight infants. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by the Cochrane Collaboration.
Main results
We included three trials that involved a total of 431 participants which compared inhaled versus systemic corticosteroids to treat BPD. No new trials were included for the 2017 update. 
Although one study randomised infants at < 72 hours (N = 292), treatment started when infants were aged > 15 days. In this larger study, deaths were included from the point of randomisation and before treatment started. Two studies (N = 139) randomised and started treatment at 12 to 21 days. 
Two trials reported non‐significant differences between groups for the primary outcome: incidence of death or BPD at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age among all randomised infants. Estimates for the largest trial were Relative risk (RR) 1.04 (95% Confidence interval (CI) 0.86 to 1.26), Risk difference (RD) 0.03 (95% CI ‐0.09 to 0.15); (moderate‐quality evidence). Estimates for the other trial reporting the primary outcome were RR 0.94 (95% CI 0.83 to 1.05), RD ‐0.06 (95% CI ‐0.17 to 0.05); (low‐quality evidence). 
Secondary outcomes that included data from all three trials showed no significant differences in the duration of mechanical ventilation or supplemental oxygen, length of hospital stay, or the incidence of hyperglycaemia, hypertension, necrotising enterocolitis, gastrointestinal bleed, retinopathy of prematurity or culture‐proven sepsis moderate‐ to low‐quality evidence). 
In a subset of 75 surviving infants who were enrolled from the United Kingdom and Ireland, there were no significant differences in developmental outcomes at seven years of age between groups (moderate‐quality evidence). One study received grant support and the industry provided aerochambers and metered dose inhalers of budesonide and placebo for the same study. No conflict of interest was identified. 
Authors' conclusions
We found no evidence that inhaled corticosteroids confer net advantages over systemic corticosteroids in the management of ventilator‐dependent preterm infants. There was no evidence of difference in effectiveness or adverse event profiles for inhaled versus systemic steroids. 
A better delivery system guaranteeing selective delivery of inhaled steroids to the alveoli might result in beneficial clinical effects without increasing adverse events. 
