Background
Cholera is an acute watery diarrhoea caused by infection with the bacterium Vibrio cholerae, which if severe can cause rapid dehydration and death. Effective management requires early diagnosis and rehydration using oral rehydration salts or intravenous fluids. In this review, we evaluate the additional benefits of treating cholera with antimicrobial drugs. 
Objectives
To quantify the benefit of antimicrobial treatment for patients with cholera, and determine whether there are differences between classes of antimicrobials or dosing schedules. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Disease Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); PubMed; EMBASE; African Index Medicus; LILACS; Science Citation Index; metaRegister of Controlled Trials; WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform; conference proceedings; and reference lists to March 2014. 
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized controlled clinical trials in adults and children with cholera that compared: 1) any antimicrobial treatment with placebo or no treatment; 2) different antimicrobials head‐to‐head; or 3) different dosing schedules or different durations of treatment with the same antimicrobial. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently applied inclusion and exclusion criteria, and extracted data from included trials. Diarrhoea duration and stool volume were defined as primary outcomes. We calculated mean difference (MD) or ratio of means (ROM) for continuous outcomes, with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and pooled data using a random‐effects meta‐analysis. The quality of evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
Thirty‐nine trials were included in this review with 4623 participants.
Antimicrobials versus placebo or no treatment 
Overall, antimicrobial therapy shortened the mean duration of diarrhoea by about a day and a half compared to placebo or no treatment (MD ‐36.77 hours, 95% CI ‐43.51 to ‐30.03, 19 trials, 1013 participants, moderate quality evidence). Antimicrobial therapy also reduced the total stool volume by 50% (ROM 0.5, 95% CI 0.45 to 0.56, 18 trials, 1042 participants, moderate quality evidence) and reduced the amount of rehydration fluids required by 40% (ROM 0.60, 95% CI 0.53 to 0.68, 11 trials, 1201 participants, moderate quality evidence). The mean duration of fecal excretion of vibrios was reduced by almost three days (MD 2.74 days, 95% CI ‐3.07 to ‐2.40, 12 trials, 740 participants, moderate quality evidence). 
There was substantial heterogeneity in the size of these benefits, probably due to differences in the antibiotic used, the trial methods (particularly effective randomization), and the timing of outcome assessment. The benefits of antibiotics were seen both in trials recruiting only patients with severe dehydration and in those recruiting patients with mixed levels of dehydration. 
Comparisons of antimicrobials 
In head‐to‐head comparisons, there were no differences detected in diarrhoea duration or stool volume for tetracycline compared to doxycycline (three trials, 230 participants, very low quality evidence); or tetracycline compared to ciprofloxacin or norfloxacin (three trials, 259 participants, moderate quality evidence). In indirect comparisons with substantially more trials, tetracycline appeared to have larger benefits than doxycycline, norfloxacin and trimethoprim‐sulfamethoxazole for the primary review outcomes. 
Single dose azithromycin shortened the duration of diarrhoea by over a day compared to ciprofloxacin (MD ‐32.43, 95% CI ‐62.90 to ‐1.95, two trials, 375 participants, moderate quality evidence) and by half a day compared to erythromycin (MD ‐12.05, 95% CI ‐22.02 to ‐2.08, two trials, 179 participants, moderate quality evidence). It was not compared with tetracycline. 
