Background
Ginseng is a herbal medicine in widespread use throughout the world. Its effect on the brain and nervous system has been investigated. It has been suggested, on the basis of both laboratory and clinical studies, that it may have beneficial effects on cognitive performance. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and adverse effects of ginseng given to improve cognitive performance in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia. 
To highlight the quality and quantity of research evidence available.
Search methods
The Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group (CDCIG), The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, LILACS, clinical trials registries and grey literature sources were searched on 24 February 2009 using the following terms: ginseng* OR panax OR ginsan OR "Jen Shen"OR shinseng OR Renshen OR schinseng OR ninjin OR gingilone OR panaxoside* OR ginsenoside* OR protopanaxa* OR protopanaxadiol OR protopanaxatriol OR panaxagin OR ginsenol OR ginsenine and terms for dementia and cognition. The CDCIG Specialized Register contains records from all major health care databases (The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, LILACS) as well as from many clinical trials registries and grey literature sources. 
Selection criteria
All double‐blind and single‐blind randomized, placebo controlled trials assessing the effects of ginseng on cognitive function were eligible for inclusion. Interventions were considered to be ginseng if they were compounds containing ginseng or active agents of the Panax genus as the major component. 
Data collection and analysis
Characteristics of each included trial were extracted independently by two reviewers using a self‐developed data extraction form and entered into RevMan 5.0 software. Authors of identified trials were contacted for additional information and unpublished data. The effects of ginseng in healthy participants, participants with cognitive impairment or dementia were addressed independently. 
