Background
Allergic rhinitis is a highly prevalent disease that results from an IgE‐mediated hypersensitivity reaction of the nasal mucosa to inhaled allergens. It is primarily treated by allergen avoidance and medical treatment, but when these measures fail to control symptoms then surgery to the inferior turbinates of nose is often performed. It is unclear whether these procedures are beneficial in the long term or indeed whether the risks outweigh the benefits. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of inferior turbinate surgery on unrelieved or partially relieved nasal obstruction in patients after maximal medical treatment of proven allergic rhinitis, to compare the results using different surgical techniques and to measure short and long‐term results. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases from their inception for published, unpublished and ongoing trials: the Cochrane Ear, Nose and Throat Disorders Group Trials Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2010, Issue 2); PubMed; EMBASE; CINAHL; LILACS; KoreaMed; IndMed; PakMediNet; CAB Abstracts; Web of Science; BIOSIS Previews; CNKI; mRCT (Current Controlled Trials); ClinicalTrials.gov; ISRCTN; ICTRP (International Clinical Trials Registry Platform); Cambridge Scientific Abstracts; Google and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. We modelled subject strategies for databases on the search strategy designed for CENTRAL. The date of the most recent search was 6 July 2010. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of inferior turbinate surgery versus continued medical treatment for proven allergic rhinitis, or comparisons between one technique of inferior turbinate surgery versus another technique, after maximal medical treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
Both authors independently screened the search results and assessed the full text of potentially relevant studies. We attempted to contact trial authors for additional information. 
