Background
Gliomas are the most common primary brain tumour. They are graded using the WHO classification system, with Grade II‐IV astrocytomas, oligodendrogliomas and oligoastrocytomas. Low‐grade gliomas (LGGs) are WHO Grade II infiltrative brain tumours that typically appear solid and non‐enhancing on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans. People with LGG often have little or no neurologic deficit, so may opt for a watch‐and‐wait‐approach over surgical resection, radiotherapy or both, as surgery can result in early neurologic disability. Occasionally, high‐grade gliomas (HGGs, WHO Grade III and IV) may have the same MRI appearance as LGGs. Taking a watch‐and‐wait approach could be detrimental for the patient if the tumour progresses quickly. Advanced imaging techniques are increasingly used in clinical practice to predict the grade of the tumour and to aid clinical decision of when to intervene surgically. One such advanced imaging technique is magnetic resonance (MR) perfusion, which detects abnormal haemodynamic changes related to increased angiogenesis and vascular permeability, or "leakiness" that occur with aggressive tumour histology. These are reflected by changes in cerebral blood volume (CBV) expressed as rCBV (ratio of tumoural CBV to normal appearing white matter CBV) and permeability, measured by Ktrans. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic test accuracy of MR perfusion for identifying patients with primary solid and non‐enhancing LGGs (WHO Grade II) at first presentation in children and adults. In performing the quantitative analysis for this review, patients with LGGs were considered disease positive while patients with HGGs were considered disease negative. 
To determine what clinical features and methodological features affect the accuracy of MR perfusion. 
Search methods
Our search strategy used two concepts: (1) glioma and the various histologies of interest, and (2) MR perfusion. We used structured search strategies appropriate for each database searched, which included: MEDLINE (Ovid SP), Embase (Ovid SP), and Web of Science Core Collection (Science Citation Index Expanded and Conference Proceedings Citation Index). The most recent search for this review was run on 9 November 2016. 
We also identified 'grey literature' from online records of conference proceedings from the American College of Radiology, European Society of Radiology, American Society of Neuroradiology and European Society of Neuroradiology in the last 20 years. 
Selection criteria
The titles and abstracts from the search results were screened to obtain full‐text articles for inclusion or exclusion. We contacted authors to clarify or obtain missing/unpublished data. 
We included cross‐sectional studies that performed dynamic susceptibility (DSC) or dynamic contrast‐enhanced (DCE) MR perfusion or both of untreated LGGs and HGGs, and where rCBV and/or Ktrans values were reported. We selected participants with solid and non‐enhancing gliomas who underwent MR perfusion within two months prior to histological confirmation. We excluded studies on participants who received radiation or chemotherapy before MR perfusion, or those without histologic confirmation. 
