Background
Shift work is often associated with sleepiness and sleep disorders. Person‐directed, non‐pharmacological interventions may positively influence the impact of shift work on sleep, thereby improving workers’ well‐being, safety, and health. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of person‐directed, non‐pharmacological interventions for reducing sleepiness at work and improving the length and quality of sleep between shifts for shift workers. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE Ovid, Embase, Web of Knowledge, ProQuest, PsycINFO, OpenGrey, and OSH‐UPDATE from inception to August 2015. We also screened reference lists and conference proceedings and searched the World Health Organization (WHO) Trial register. We contacted experts to obtain unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (including cross‐over designs) that investigated the effect of any person‐directed, non‐pharmacological intervention on sleepiness on‐shift or sleep length and sleep quality off‐shift in shift workers who also work nights. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two authors screened titles and abstracts for relevant studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. We contacted authors to obtain missing information. We conducted meta‐analyses when pooling of studies was possible. 
Main results
We included 17 relevant trials (with 556 review‐relevant participants) which we categorised into three types of interventions: (1) various exposures to bright light (n = 10); (2) various opportunities for napping (n = 4); and (3) other interventions, such as physical exercise or sleep education (n = 3). In most instances, the studies were too heterogeneous to pool. Most of the comparisons yielded low to very low quality evidence. Only one comparison provided moderate quality evidence. Overall, the included studies’ results were inconclusive. We present the results regarding sleepiness below. 
Bright light 
Combining two comparable studies (with 184 participants altogether) that investigated the effect of bright light during the night on sleepiness during a shift, revealed a mean reduction 0.83 score points of sleepiness (measured via the Stanford Sleepiness Scale (SSS) (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.3 to ‐0.36, very low quality evidence). Another trial did not find a significant difference in overall sleepiness on another sleepiness scale (16 participants, low quality evidence). 
Bright light during the night plus sunglasses at dawn did not significantly influence sleepiness compared to normal light (1 study, 17 participants, assessment via reaction time, very low quality evidence). 
Bright light during the day shift did not significantly reduce sleepiness during the day compared to normal light (1 trial, 61 participants, subjective assessment, low quality evidence) or compared to normal light plus placebo capsule (1 trial, 12 participants, assessment via reaction time, very low quality evidence). 
Napping during the night shift 
A meta‐analysis on a single nap opportunity and the effect on the mean reaction time as a surrogate for sleepiness, resulted in a 11.87 ms reduction (95% CI 31.94 to ‐8.2, very low quality evidence). Two other studies also reported statistically non‐significant decreases in reaction time (1 study seven participants; 1 study 49 participants, very low quality evidence). 
A two‐nap opportunity resulted in a statistically non‐significant increase of sleepiness (subjective assessment) in one study (mean difference (MD) 2.32, 95% CI ‐24.74 to 29.38, 1 study, 15 participants, low quality evidence). 
