Background
Multiple‐micronutrient (MMN) deficiencies often coexist among women of reproductive age in low‐ and middle‐income countries. They are exacerbated in pregnancy due to the increased demands of the developing fetus, leading to potentially adverse effects on the mother and baby. A consensus is yet to be reached regarding the replacement of iron and folic acid supplementation with MMNs. Since the last update of this Cochrane Review in 2017, evidence from several trials has become available. The findings of this review will be critical to inform policy on micronutrient supplementation in pregnancy. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits of oral multiple‐micronutrient supplementation during pregnancy on maternal, fetal and infant health outcomes. 
Search methods
For this 2018 update, on 23 February 2018 we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), and reference lists of retrieved studies. We also contacted experts in the field for additional and ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
All prospective randomised controlled trials evaluating MMN supplementation with iron and folic acid during pregnancy and its effects on pregnancy outcomes were eligible, irrespective of language or the publication status of the trials. We included cluster‐randomised trials, but excluded quasi‐randomised trials. Trial reports that were published as abstracts were eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data and checked them for accuracy. We assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We identified 21 trials (involving 142,496 women) as eligible for inclusion in this review, but only 20 trials (involving 141,849 women) contributed data. Of these 20 trials, 19 were conducted in low‐ and middle‐income countries and compared MMN supplements with iron and folic acid to iron, with or without folic acid. One trial conducted in the UK compared MMN supplementation with placebo. In total, eight trials were cluster‐randomised. 
