Background
In western medicine, cervical ectropion is considered as a normal finding that does not require treatment despite the red and inflamed appearance of the cervix. However, cervical ectropion is considered as one of the most common types of chronic cervicitis in China. Topical treatments for cervical ectropion, including microwave tissue coagulation, are widely used in many hospitals in China they are considered likely to reduce the chances of development of abnormal metaplasia and infection. 
Objectives
To compare the efficacy and potential side effects of microwave tissue coagulation with other interventions or no intervention in the treatment of cervical ectropion. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), Chinese Medical Current Contents (CMCC), CAJ Full‐text Database and the Chinese Scientific Journals Database. We also searched for related literature on the Internet with search engines such as Google and searched the reference lists of articles and handsearched relevant Chinese journals. The search of these databases was conducted from inception to May 2009. 
Selection criteria
Only authentic randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were considered for inclusion.
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently interviewed the original authors of claimed RCTs published in China and then assessed the risk of bias of three RCTs and extracted data. 
Main results
No studies were found that met the participant inclusion criteria of the protocol. One hundred and thirty‐three studies were reported as RCTs, but only only three studies were identified as authentic RCTs. However, it was not possible to confirm that the participants were symptomatic prior to treatment. and the methodological quality of the three RCTs was generally low. No trial compared treatment to no intervention and most trials didn't assess relief of symptoms or quality of life and satisfaction, which are very important to women. 
Authors' conclusions
There were no RCTs in symptomatic women with cervical ectropion comparing microwave therapy with another treatment or no treatment. Although microwave therapy improved the appearance of the cervix compared with both laser and interferon‐alpha suppository therapy, any other benefit for the women was not clear. 
