Background
In advanced non‐small cell lung cancer (NSCLC), the effectiveness of standard cytotoxic chemotherapy seems to have reached a 'plateau', and there is a continuous need for new treatments to further improve the prognosis. Cetuximab is a monoclonal antibody targeted at the epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) signalling pathway. Basically, it is designed to inhibit the growth and metastasis among other biological processes of cancer. In combination with chemotherapy, it has been evaluated as a first‐line treatment for advanced NSCLC in some randomised controlled trials (RCTs), with inconsistent results. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and toxicity of chemotherapy plus cetuximab, compared with chemotherapy alone, for advanced non‐small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) previously untreated with chemotherapy or epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR)‐targeted drugs. 
Search methods
We systematically searched the Cochrane Lung Cancer Review Group's Specialized Register (from inception to 17 December 2013), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 12), MEDLINE (accessed through PubMed, 1966 to 17 December 2013), EMBASE (1980 to 17 December 2013), ClinicalTrials.gov (from inception to 17 December 2013), and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (from inception to 17 December 2013). We also handsearched the proceedings related to lung cancer from the American Society of Clinical Oncology and European Society of Medical Oncology (2000 to 17 December 2013). We checked the reference lists of all eligible primary studies and review articles for additional potentially eligible studies. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies were RCTs that compared chemotherapy plus cetuximab with the same chemotherapy alone, in advanced NSCLC, previously untreated with chemotherapy or EGFR‐targeted drugs, and measured at least one of the following: overall survival, progression‐free survival, one‐year survival rate, objective response rate, quality of life, or serious adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration. We extracted the following data from each study: publication details, participant characteristics, regimens for intervention and control arms, outcome measures and effect size, and information related to the methodological quality of the study. We measured the treatment effects on dichotomous and time‐to‐event outcomes by risk ratio (RR) and hazard ratio (HR), with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), respectively. We conducted meta‐analyses with Review Manager 5 using the random‐effects model. We employed the Mantel‐Haenszel method to combine RRs and the inverse‐variance method to combine HRs. 
Main results
We included four trials, containing 2018 patients. The subjects were mostly white people (female: 26% to 56%), with a median age of 58 to 66 years. About half of them had histologically proven adenocarcinoma. Of the 2018 patients, 83% to 99% had their status measured using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status, and had a score of 0 to 1 (which is usually considered as physically "fit"). 
