Background
Caesarean section rates are increasing globally. The factors contributing to this increase are complex, and identifying interventions to address them is challenging. Non‐clinical interventions are applied independently of a clinical encounter between a health provider and a patient. Such interventions may target women, health professionals or organisations. They address the determinants of caesarean births and could have a role in reducing unnecessary caesarean sections. This review was first published in 2011. This review update will inform a new WHO guideline, and the scope of the update was informed by WHO’s Guideline Development Group for this guideline. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of non‐clinical interventions intended to reduce unnecessary caesarean section. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and two trials registers in March 2018. We also searched websites of relevant organisations and reference lists of related reviews. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials, non‐randomised trials, controlled before‐after studies, interrupted time series studies and repeated measures studies were eligible for inclusion. The primary outcome measures were: caesarean section, spontaneous vaginal birth and instrumental birth. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard methodological procedures recommended by Cochrane. We narratively described results of individual studies (drawing summarised evidence from single studies assessing distinct interventions). 
Main results
We included 29 studies in this review (19 randomised trials, 1 controlled before‐after study and 9 interrupted time series studies). Most of the studies (20 studies) were conducted in high‐income countries and none took place in low‐income countries. The studies enrolled a mixed population of pregnant women, including nulliparous women, multiparous women, women with a fear of childbirth, women with high levels of anxiety and women having undergone a previous caesarean section. 
Overall, we found low‐, moderate‐ or high‐certainty evidence that the following interventions have a beneficial effect on at least one primary outcome measure and no moderate‐ or high‐certainty evidence of adverse effects. 
Interventions targeted at women or families 
Childbirth training workshops for mothers alone may reduce caesarean section (risk ratio (RR) 0.55, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.33 to 0.89) and may increase spontaneous vaginal birth (RR 2.25, 95% CI 1.16 to 4.36). Childbirth training workshops for couples may reduce caesarean section (RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.94) and may increase spontaneous vaginal birth (RR 2.13, 95% CI 1.09 to 4.16). We judged this one study with 60 participants to have low‐certainty evidence for the outcomes above. 
