Background
Bronchial thermoplasty is a procedure that consists of the delivery of controlled radiofrequency‐generated heat via a catheter inserted into the bronchial tree of the lungs through a flexible bronchoscope. It has been suggested that bronchial thermoplasty works by reducing airway smooth muscle, thereby reducing the ability of the smooth muscle to bronchoconstrict. This treatment could then reduce asthma symptoms and exacerbations, resulting in improved asthma control and quality of life. 
Objectives
To determine the efficacy and safety of bronchial thermoplasty in adults with bronchial asthma. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of Trials (CAGR) up to January 2014. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled clinical trials that compared bronchial thermoplasty versus any active control in adults with moderate or severe persistent asthma. Our primary outcomes were quality of life, asthma exacerbations and adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias.
Main results
We included three trials (429 participants) with differences regarding their design (two trials compared bronchial thermoplasty vs medical management and the other compared bronchial thermoplasty vs a sham intervention) and participant characteristics; one of the studies included participants with more symptomatic asthma compared with the others. 
The pooled analysis showed improvement in quality of life at 12 months in participants who received bronchial thermoplasty that did not reach the threshold for clinical significance (3 trials, 429 participants; mean difference (MD) in Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ) scores 0.28, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.50; moderate‐quality evidence). Measures of symptom control showed no significant differences (3 trials, 429 participants; MD in Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) scores ‐0.15, 95% CI ‐0.40 to 0.10; moderate‐quality evidence). The risk of bias for these outcomes was high because two of the studies did not have a sham intervention for the control group. 
