Background
Ambulatory or outpatient anaesthesia is performed in patients who are discharged on the same day as their surgery. Perioperative complications such as postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), postoperative behavioural disturbances and cardiorespiratory complications should be minimized in ambulatory anaesthesia. The choice of anaesthetic agents and techniques can influence the occurrence of these complications and thus delay in discharge. 
Objectives
The objective of this review was to evaluate the risk of complications (the risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting (PONV), admission or readmission to hospital, postoperative behavioural disturbances and perioperative respiratory and cardiovascular complications) and recovery times (time to discharge from recovery ward and time to discharge from hospital) comparing the use of intravenous to inhalational anaesthesia for paediatric outpatient surgery. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library (2013, Issue 8); MEDLINE (1948 to 1 October 2013); EMBASE (1974 to 1 October 2013); Literatura Latino‐Americana e do Caribe em Ciências da Saúde (LILACS) (1982 to 1 October 2013). We also handsearched relevant journals and searched the reference lists of the articles identified. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials comparing paediatric outpatient surgery using intravenous versus inhalational anaesthesia. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted the data. When necessary, we requested additional information and clarification of published data from the authors of individual trials. 
Main results
We included 16 trials that involved 900 children in this review. Half of all the studies did not describe the generation of randomized sequence and most studies did not describe adequate allocation sequence concealment. The included studies showed variability in the types and combinations of drugs and the duration of anaesthesia, limiting the meta‐analysis and interpretation of the results. 
