Background
Endodontic treatment involves removal of the dental pulp and its replacement by a root canal filling. Restoration of root filled teeth can be challenging due to structural differences between vital and non‐vital root‐filled teeth. Direct restoration involves placement of a restorative material e.g. amalgam or composite, directly into the tooth. Indirect restorations consist of cast metal or ceramic (porcelain) crowns. The choice of restoration depends on the amount of remaining tooth, and may influence durability and cost. The decision to use a post and core in addition to the crown is clinician driven. The comparative clinical performance of crowns or conventional fillings used to restore root‐filled teeth is unknown. This review updates the original, which was published in 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of restoration of endodontically treated teeth (with or without post and core) by crowns versus conventional filling materials. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Oral Health Group's Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE via OVID, EMBASE via OVID, CINAHL via EBSCO, LILACS via BIREME. We also searched the reference lists of articles and ongoing trials registries.There were no restrictions regarding language or date of publication. The search is up‐to‐date as of 26 March 2015. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐randomised controlled trials in participants with permanent teeth that have undergone endodontic treatment. Single full coverage crowns compared with any type of filling materials for direct restoration or indirect partial restorations (e.g. inlays and onlays). Comparisons considered the type of post and core used (cast or prefabricated post), if any. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data from the included trial and assessed its risk of bias. We carried out data analysis using the 'treatment as allocated' patient population, expressing estimates of intervention effect for dichotomous data as risk ratios, with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
We included one trial, which was judged to be at high risk of performance, detection and attrition bias. The 117 participants with a root‐filled, premolar tooth restored with a carbon fibre post, were randomised to either a full coverage metal‐ceramic crown or direct adhesive composite restoration. None experienced a catastrophic failure (i.e. when the restoration cannot be repaired), although only 104 teeth were included in the final, three‐year assessment. There was no clear difference between the crown and composite group and the composite only group for non‐catastrophic failures of the restoration (1/54 versus 3/53; RR 0.33; 95% CI 0.04 to 3.05) or failures of the post (2/54 versus 1/53; RR 1.96; 95% CI 0.18 to 21.01) at three years. The quality of the evidence for these outcomes is very low. There was no evidence available for any of our secondary outcomes: patient satisfaction and quality of life, incidence or recurrence of caries, periodontal health status, and costs. 
Authors' conclusions
There is insufficient evidence to assess the effects of crowns compared to conventional fillings for the restoration of root‐filled teeth. Until more evidence becomes available, clinicians should continue to base decisions about how to restore root‐filled teeth on their own clinical experience, whilst taking into consideration the individual circumstances and preferences of their patients. 
