Background
The hypertensive disorders of pregnancy include pre‐eclampsia, gestational hypertension, chronic hypertension, and undefined hypertension. Pre‐eclampsia is considerably more prevalent in low‐income than in high‐income countries. One possible explanation for this discrepancy is dietary differences, particularly calcium deficiency. Calcium supplementation in the second half of pregnancy reduces the serious consequences of pre‐eclampsia, but has limited effect on the overall risk of pre‐eclampsia. It is important to establish whether calcium supplementation before, and in early pregnancy (before 20 weeks' gestation) has added benefit. Such evidence could count towards justification of population‐level interventions to improve dietary calcium intake, including fortification of staple foods with calcium, especially in contexts where dietary calcium intake is known to be inadequate. This is an update of a review first published in 2017. 
Objectives
To determine the effect of calcium supplementation, given before or early in pregnancy and for at least the first half of pregnancy, on pre‐eclampsia and other hypertensive disorders, maternal morbidity and mortality, and fetal and neonatal outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Trials Register (31 July 2018), PubMed (13 July 2018), ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP; 31 July 2018), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies were randomised controlled trials (RCT) of calcium supplementation, including women not yet pregnant, or women in early pregnancy. Cluster‐RCTs, quasi‐RCTs, and trials published as abstracts were eligible, but we did not identify any. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data, and checked them for accuracy. They assessed the quality of the evidence for key outcomes using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
Calcium versus placebo 
We included one study (1355 women), which took place across multiple hospital sites in Argentina, South Africa, and Zimbabwe. Most analyses were conducted only on 633 women from this group who were known to have conceived, or on 579 who reached 20 weeks' gestation; the trial was at moderate risk of bias due to high attrition rates pre‐conception. Non‐pregnant women with previous pre‐eclampsia received either calcium 500 mg daily or placebo, from enrolment until 20 weeks' gestation. All participants received calcium 1.5 g daily from 20 weeks until birth. 
