Background
Ethnic minority groups in upper‐middle‐income and high‐income countries tend to be socioeconomically disadvantaged and to have a higher prevalence of type 2 diabetes than is seen in the majority population. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of culturally appropriate health education for people in ethnic minority groups with type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Search methods
A systematic literature search was performed of the following databases: The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, the Education Resources Information Center (ERIC) and Google Scholar, as well as reference lists of identified articles. The date of the last search was July 2013 for The Cochrane Library and September 2013 for all other databases. We contacted authors in the field and handsearched commonly encountered journals as well. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of culturally appropriate health education for people over 16 years of age with type 2 diabetes mellitus from named ethnic minority groups residing in upper‐middle‐income or high‐income countries. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. When disagreements arose regarding selection of papers for inclusion, two additional review authors were consulted for discussion. We contacted study authors to ask for additional information when data appeared to be missing or needed clarification. 
Main results
A total of 33 trials (including 11 from the original 2008 review) involving 7453 participants were included in this review, with 28 trials providing suitable data for entry into meta‐analysis. Although the interventions provided in these studies were very different from one study to another (participant numbers, duration of intervention, group versus individual intervention, setting), most of the studies were based on recognisable theoretical models, and we tried to be inclusive in considering the wide variety of available culturally appropriate health education. 
Glycaemic control (as measured by glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c)) showed improvement following culturally appropriate health education at three months (mean difference (MD) ‐0.4% (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.5 to ‐0.2); 14 trials; 1442 participants; high‐quality evidence) and at six months (MD ‐0.5% (95% CI ‐0.7 to ‐0.4); 14 trials; 1972 participants; high‐quality evidence) post intervention compared with control groups who received 'usual care'. This control was sustained to a lesser extent at 12 months (MD ‐0.2% (95% CI ‐0.3 to ‐0.04); 9 trials; 1936 participants) and at 24 months (MD ‐0.3% (95% CI ‐0.6 to ‐0.1); 4 trials; 2268 participants; moderate‐quality evidence) post intervention. Neutral effects on health‐related quality of life measures were noted and there was a general lack of reporting of adverse events in most studies — the other two primary outcomes for this review. Knowledge scores showed improvement in the intervention group at three (standardised mean difference (SMD) 0.4 (95% CI 0.1 to 0.6), six (SMD 0.5 (95% CI 0.3 to 0.7)) and 12 months (SMD 0.4 (95% CI 0.1 to 0.6)) post intervention. A reduction in triglycerides of 24 mg/dL (95% CI ‐40 to ‐8) was observed at three months, but this was not sustained at six or 12 months. Neutral effects on total cholesterol, low‐density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol or high‐density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol were reported at any follow‐up point. Other outcome measures (blood pressure, body mass index, self‐efficacy and empowerment) also showed neutral effects compared with control groups. Data on the secondary outcomes of diabetic complications, mortality and health economics were lacking or were insufficient. 
Because of the nature of the intervention, participants and personnel delivering the intervention were rarely blinded, so the risk of performance bias was high. Also, subjective measures were assessed by participants who self‐reported via questionnaires, leading to high bias in subjective outcome assessment. 
