Background
Paediatric studies have demonstrated that cardiopulmonary bypass is associated with a decline in thyroid hormone levels. Adult patients who undergo open heart surgery and receive triiodothyronine supplementation have demonstrated a dose‐dependent increase in cardiac output which has been associated with an improved clinical outcome. Thyroid hormone supplementation in infants may also reduce postoperative morbidity and mortality. 
Objectives
To determine if perioperative thyroid hormone supplementation or replacement in infants undergoing cardiac surgery on cardiopulmonary bypass improves postoperative and longer term morbidity and mortality. 
Search methods
The standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group was used. This included searches of The Oxford Database of Perinatal Trials, MEDLINE (1966 ‐ October 2007), EMBASE (1980 ‐ October 2007), CINAHL (1982 ‐ October 2007), The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, Issue 2, 2007), previous reviews including cross references, abstracts, conferences, symposia proceedings, expert informants and journal handsearching in the English language. 
Selection criteria
All trials using random allocation to perioperative thyroid hormone therapy (supplementation or replacement) compared to control (placebo or no therapy) in infants (birth to one year of age) undergoing cardiac surgery requiring cardiopulmonary bypass. Thyroid hormone therapy must be triiodothyronine. 
Data collection and analysis
Primary clinical outcomes included measures of postoperative morbidity and mortality. The standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group were used in the assessment of trial quality. Treatment effects were expressed using relative risk (RR) and mean difference (MD). 
Main results
Three small studies were identified that tested perioperative thyroid hormone supplementation or replacement in infants aged less than one year undergoing cardiac surgery (Mackie 2005; Portman 2000; Chowdhury 2001). In the Chowdhury 2001 study, a subgroup of nine neonates was eligible for this review. 
