Background
The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends Artemisinin‐based Combination Therapy (ACT) for treating uncomplicated Plasmodium falciparum malaria. This review aims to assist the decision‐making of malaria control programmes by providing an overview of the relative effects of dihydroartemisinin‐piperaquine (DHA‐P) versus other recommended ACTs. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of DHA‐P compared to other ACTs for treating uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria in adults and children. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) published in The Cochrane Library; MEDLINE; EMBASE; LILACS, and the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) up to July 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials comparing a three‐day course of DHA‐P to a three‐day course of an alternative WHO recommended ACT in uncomplicated P. falciparum malaria. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed trials for eligibility and risk of bias, and extracted data. We analysed primary outcomes in line with the WHO 'Protocol for assessing and monitoring antimalarial drug efficacy’ and compared drugs using risk ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). Secondary outcomes were effects on gametocytes, haemoglobin, and adverse events. We assessed the quality of evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 27 trials, enrolling 16,382 adults and children, and conducted between 2002 and 2010. Most trials excluded infants aged less than six months and pregnant women. 
DHA‐P versus artemether‐lumefantrine 
In Africa, over 28 days follow‐up, DHA‐P is superior to artemether‐lumefantrine at preventing further parasitaemia (PCR‐unadjusted treatment failure: RR 0.34, 95% CI 0.30 to 0.39, nine trials, 6200 participants, high quality evidence), and although PCR‐adjusted treatment failure was below 5% for both ACTs, it was consistently lower with DHA‐P (PCR‐adjusted treatment failure: RR 0.42, 95% CI 0.29 to 0.62, nine trials, 5417 participants, high quality evidence). DHA‐P has a longer prophylactic effect on new infections which may last for up to 63 days (PCR‐unadjusted treatment failure: RR 0.71, 95% CI 0.65 to 0.78, two trials, 3200 participants, high quality evidence). 
In Asia and Oceania, no differences have been shown at day 28 (four trials, 1143 participants, moderate quality evidence), or day 63 (one trial, 323 participants, low quality evidence). 
