Background
Bone is the most common site of metastatic disease associated with breast cancer (BC). Bisphosphonates inhibit osteoclast‐mediated bone resorption, and novel targeted therapies such as denosumab inhibit other key bone metabolism pathways. We have studied these agents in both early breast cancer and advanced breast cancer settings. This is an update of the review originally published in 2002 and subsequently updated in 2005 and 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of bisphosphonates and other bone agents in addition to anti‐cancer treatment: (i) in women with early breast cancer (EBC); (ii) in women with advanced breast cancer without bone metastases (ABC); and (iii) in women with metastatic breast cancer and bone metastases (BCBM). 
Search methods
In this review update, we searched Cochrane Breast Cancer's Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, the World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP) and ClinicalTrials.gov on 19 September 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing: (a) one treatment with a bisphosphonate/bone‐acting agent with the same treatment without a bisphosphonate/bone‐acting agent; (b) treatment with one bisphosphonate versus treatment with a different bisphosphonate; (c) treatment with a bisphosphonate versus another bone‐acting agent of a different mechanism of action (e.g. denosumab); and (d) immediate treatment with a bisphosphonate/bone‐acting agent versus delayed treatment of the same bisphosphonate/bone‐acting agent. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data, and assessed risk of bias and quality of the evidence. The primary outcome measure was bone metastases for EBC and ABC, and a skeletal‐related event (SRE) for BCBM. We derived risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous outcomes and the meta‐analyses used random‐effects models. Secondary outcomes included overall survival and disease‐free survival for EBC; we derived hazard ratios (HRs) for these time‐to‐event outcomes where possible. We collected toxicity and quality‐of‐life information. GRADE was used to assess the quality of evidence for the most important outcomes in each treatment setting. 
