Background
Oral cancer is an important global healthcare problem, its incidence is increasing and late‐stage presentation is common. Screening programmes have been introduced for a number of major cancers and have proved effective in their early detection. Given the high morbidity and mortality rates associated with oral cancer, there is a need to determine the effectiveness of a screening programme for this disease, either as a targeted, opportunistic or population‐based measure. Evidence exists from modelled data that a visual oral examination of high‐risk individuals may be a cost‐effective screening strategy and the development and use of adjunctive aids and biomarkers is becoming increasingly common. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of current screening methods in decreasing oral cancer mortality. 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases: the Cochrane Oral Health Group's Trials Register (to 22 July 2013), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 6), MEDLINE via OVID (1946 to 22 July 2013), EMBASE via OVID (1980 to 22 July 2013) and CANCERLIT via PubMed (1950 to 22 July 2013). There were no restrictions on language in the search of the electronic databases. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of screening for oral cancer or potentially malignant disorders using visual examination, toluidine blue, fluorescence imaging or brush biopsy. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened the results of the searches against inclusion criteria, extracted data and assessed risk of bias independently and in duplicate. We used mean differences (MDs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for continuous data and risk ratios (RRs) with 95% CIs for dichotomous data. Meta‐analyses would have been undertaken using a random‐effects model if the number of studies had exceeded a minimum of three. Study authors were contacted where possible and where deemed necessary for missing information. 
