Background
Hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer) is classified in many ways. The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) group staging classifies the cancer based on patient's life expectancy. People with very early‐ or early‐stage hepatocellular carcinoma have single tumour or three tumours of maximum diameter of 3 cm or less, Child‐Pugh status A to B, and performance status 0 (fully functional). Management of hepatocellular carcinoma is uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the comparative benefits and harms of different interventions used in the treatment of early or very early hepatocellular carcinoma through a network meta‐analysis and to generate rankings of the available interventions according to their safety and efficacy. However, it was not possible to assess whether the potential effect modifiers were similar across different comparisons. Therefore, we did not perform the network meta‐analysis and instead assessed the benefits and harms of different interventions versus each other or versus sham or no intervention using standard Cochrane methodology. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded, and trials registers to September 2016 to identify randomised clinical trials (RCTs) on hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Selection criteria
We included only RCTs, irrespective of language, blinding, or publication status, in participants with very early‐ or early‐stage hepatocellular carcinoma, irrespective of the presence of cirrhosis, portal hypertension, aetiology of hepatocellular carcinoma, size and number of the tumours, and future remnant liver volume. We excluded trials including participants who were previously liver transplanted. We considered interventions compared with each other, sham, or no intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
We calculated the odds ratio, mean difference, rate ratio, or hazard ratio with 95% confidence intervals using both fixed‐effect and random‐effects models based on available‐participant analysis with Review Manager 5. We assessed the risk of bias according to Cochrane, controlled risk of random errors with Trial Sequential Analysis using Stata, and the quality of the evidence using GRADE. 
