Background
Patients with unicompartmental osteoarthritis of the knee can be treated with an osteotomy. The goal of an osteotomy is to unload the diseased compartment of the knee. This is the second update of the original review published in The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2005. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of an osteotomy for treating patients with knee osteoarthritis, including the following main outcomes scores: treatment failure, pain and function scores, health‐related quality of life, serious adverse events, mortality and reoperation rate. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and EMBASE (Current Contents, HealthSTAR) were searched until November 2013 for this second update. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and controlled clinical trials comparing an osteotomy with other treatments for patients with unicompartmental osteoarthritis of the knee. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials, extracted data and assessed risk of bias using the domains recommended in the 'Risk of bias' tool of The Cochrane Collaboration. The quality of the results was analysed by performing overall grading of evidence by outcome using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach. 
Main results
Eight new studies were included in this update, for a total of 21 included studies involving 1065 people. 
In four studies, the randomised sequence was adequately generated and clearly described. In eight studies, allocation concealment was adequately generated and described. In four studies, the blinding procedures were sufficient. In six studies, incomplete outcome data were not adequately addressed. Furthermore, in 11 studies, the selective outcome reporting item was unclear because no study protocol was provided. 
Follow‐up of studies comparing different osteotomy techniques was too short to measure treatment failure, which implicates revision to a knee arthroplasty. 
Four studies evaluated a closing wedge high tibial osteotomy (CW‐HTO) with another high tibial osteotomy (aHTO). Based on these studies, the CW‐HTO group had 1.8% (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐7.7% to 4.2%; low‐quality evidence) more pain compared with the aHTO group; this finding was not statistically significant. Pooled function in the CW‐HTO group was 0.5% (95% CI ‐3.8% to 2.8%; low‐quality evidence) higher compared with the aHTO group; this finding was not statistically significant. No data on health‐related quality of life and mortality were presented. 
Serious adverse events were reported in only four studies and were not significantly different (low‐quality evidence) between groups. The reoperation rate were scored as early hardware removal because of pain and pin track infection due to the external fixator. Risk of reoperation was 2.6 (95% CI 1.5 to 4.5; low‐quality evidence) times higher in the aHTO group compared with the CW‐HTO group, and this finding was statistically significant. 
The quality of evidence for most outcomes comparing different osteotomy techniques was downgraded to low because of the numbers of available studies, the numbers of participants and limitations in design. 
