Background
There are two main strategies for the prevention of post‐abortal upper genital tract infection: antibiotics given around the time of surgery for all women; and 'screen‐and‐treat', in which all women presenting for abortion are screened for genital infections and those with positive results are treated. 
Objectives
To determine:
1. the effectiveness of antibiotic prophylaxis in preventing post‐abortal upper genital tract infection;  2. the most effective antibiotic regimen;  3. the most effective strategy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), PubMed, EMBASE, POPLINE and LILACS. The search was last updated in May 2011. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in any language including women undergoing induced first trimester surgical or medical abortion, comparing: 1) any antibiotic regimen to placebo, nothing, or another antibiotic; 2) screen‐and‐treat versus antibiotics. The primary outcome was the proportion of women diagnosed with post‐abortal upper genital tract infection. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently selected references and extracted data. We calculated risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We used meta‐analysis where appropriate and examined between trial heterogeneity using the I2 statistic. In the presence of between trial heterogeneity we also estimated the 95% prediction interval (PI). 
Main results
A total of 703 unique items was identified. We included 19 RCTs. There was evidence of small study biases (Egger test, P = 0.002). In 15 placebo‐controlled RCTs there was an effect of antibiotic prophylaxis (pooled RR 0.59, 95% CI 0.46 to 0.75, 95% PI 0.30 to 1.14, I2 = 39%). There were insufficient data (three trials) to determine whether one regimen was superior to another. In one trial, the incidence of post‐abortal upper genital tract infection was higher in women allocated to the screen‐and‐treat strategy (RR 1.53, 95% CI 0.99 to 2.36). 
