Background
Heart transplantation is considered to be the gold standard treatment for selected patients with end‐stage heart disease when medical therapy has been unable to halt progression of the underlying pathology. Evidence suggests that aerobic exercise training may be effective in reversing the pathophysiological consequences associated with cardiac denervation and prevent immunosuppression‐induced adverse effects in heart transplant recipients. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of exercise‐based rehabilitation on the mortality, hospital admissions, adverse events, exercise capacity, health‐related quality of life, return to work and costs for people after heart transplantation. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid), CINAHL (EBSCO) and Web of Science Core Collection (Thomson Reuters) to June 2016. We also searched two clinical trials registers and handsearched the reference lists of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of parallel group, cross‐over or cluster design, which compared exercise‐based interventions with (i) no exercise control (ii) a different dose of exercise training (e.g. low‐ versus high‐intensity exercise training); or (iii) an active intervention (i.e. education, psychological intervention). The study population comprised adults aged 18 years or over who had received a heart transplant. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened all identified references for inclusion based on pre‐specified inclusion criteria. Disagreements were resolved by consensus or by involving a third person. Two review authors extracted outcome data from the included trials and assessed their risk of bias. One review author extracted study characteristics from included studies and a second author checked them against the trial report for accuracy. 
Main results
We included 10 RCTs that involved a total of 300 participants whose mean age was 54.4 years. Women accounted for fewer than 25% of all study participants. Nine trials which randomised 284 participants to receive exercise‐based rehabilitation (151 participants) or no exercise (133 participants) were included in the main analysis. One cross‐over RCT compared high‐intensity interval training with continued moderate‐intensity training in 16 participants. We reported findings for all trials at their longest follow‐up (median 12 weeks). 
