Background
Burn injuries are an important health problem. They occur frequently in the head and neck region. The face is the area central to a person's identity that provides our most expressive means of communication. Topical interventions are currently the cornerstone of treatment of burns to the face. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of topical interventions on wound healing in people with facial burns of any depth. 
Search methods
In December 2019 we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated the effects of topical treatment for facial burns were eligible for inclusion in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, data extraction, risk of bias assessment and GRADE assessment of the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
In this first update, we included 12 RCTs, comprising 507 participants.
Most trials included adults admitted to specialised burn centres after recent burn injuries. 
Topical agents included antimicrobial agents (silver sulphadiazine (SSD), Aquacel‐Ag, cerium‐sulphadiazine, gentamicin cream, mafenide acetate cream, bacitracin), non‐antimicrobial agents (Moist Exposed Burn Ointment (MEBO), saline‐soaked dressings, skin substitutes (including bioengineered skin substitute (TransCyte), allograft, and xenograft (porcine Xenoderm), and miscellaneous treatments (growth hormone therapy, recombinant human granulocyte‐macrophage colony‐stimulating factor hydrogel (rhGMCS)), enzymatic debridement, and cream with Helix Aspersa extract). 
Almost all the evidence included in this review was assessed as low or very low‐certainty, often because of high risk of bias due to unclear randomisation procedures (i.e. sequence generation and allocation concealment); lack of blinding of participants, providers and sometimes outcome assessors; and imprecision resulting from few participants, low event rates or both, often in single studies. 
Topical antimicrobial agents versus topical non‐antimicrobial agents 
There is moderate‐certainty evidence that there is probably little or no difference between antimicrobial agents and non‐antimicrobial agents (SSD and MEBO) in time to complete wound healing (hazard ratio (HR) 0.84 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.78 to 1.85, 1 study, 39 participants). Topical antimicrobial agents may make little or no difference to the proportion of wounds completely healed compared with topical non‐antimicrobial agents (comparison SSD and MEBO, risk ratio (RR) 0.94, 95% CI 0.68 to 1.29; 1 study, 39 participants; low‐certainty evidence). We are uncertain whether there is a difference in wound infection (comparison topical antimicrobial agent (Aquacel‐Ag) and MEBO; RR 0.38, 95% CI 0.12 to 1.21; 1 study, 40 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). No trials reported change in wound surface area over time or partial wound healing. There is low‐certainty evidence for the secondary outcomes scar quality and patient satisfaction. Two studies assessed pain but it was incompletely reported. 
Topical antimicrobial agents versus other topical antimicrobial agents 
It is uncertain whether topical antimicrobial agents make any difference in effects as the evidence is low to very low‐certainty. For primary outcomes, there is low‐certainty evidence for time to partial (i.e. greater than 90%) wound healing (comparison SSD versus cerium SSD: mean difference (MD) –7.10 days, 95% CI –16.43 to 2.23; 1 study, 142 participants). There is very low‐certainty evidence regarding whether topical antimicrobial agents make a difference to wound infection (RR 0.73, 95% CI 0.46 to 1.17; 1 study, 15 participants). There is low to very low‐certainty evidence for the proportion of facial burns requiring surgery, pain, scar quality, adverse effects and length of hospital stay. 
Skin substitutes versus topical antimicrobial agents 
There is low‐certainty evidence that a skin substitute may slightly reduce time to partial (i.e. greater than 90%) wound healing, compared with a non‐specified antibacterial agent (MD –6.00 days, 95% CI –8.69 to –3.31; 1 study, 34 participants). 
