Background
Neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) due to opioid withdrawal may result in disruption of the mother–infant relationship, sleep–wake abnormalities, feeding difficulties, weight loss, seizures and neurodevelopmental problems. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of using a sedative versus control (placebo, usual treatment or non‐pharmacological treatment) for NAS due to withdrawal from opioids and determine which type of sedative is most effective and safe for NAS due to withdrawal from opioids. 
Search methods
We ran an updated search on 17 September 2020 in CENTRAL via CRS Web and MEDLINE via Ovid. We searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
We included trials enrolling infants with NAS born to mothers with an opioid dependence with more than 80% follow‐up and using randomised, quasi‐randomised and cluster‐randomised allocation to sedative or control. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors assessed trial eligibility and risk of bias, and independently extracted data. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We included 10 trials (581 infants) with NAS secondary to maternal opioid use in pregnancy. There were multiple comparisons of different sedatives and regimens. There were limited data available for use in sensitivity analysis of studies at low risk of bias. 
Phenobarbital versus supportive care: one study reported there may be little or no difference in treatment failure with phenobarbital and supportive care versus supportive care alone (risk ratio (RR) 2.73, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.94 to 7.94; 62 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). No infant had a clinical seizure. The study did not report mortality, neurodevelopmental disability and adverse events. There may be an increase in days' hospitalisation and treatment from use of phenobarbital (hospitalisation: mean difference (MD) 20.80, 95% CI 13.64 to 27.96; treatment: MD 17.90, 95% CI 11.98 to 23.82; both 62 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). 
