Background
This review is one in a series of Cochrane Reviews of interventions for shoulder disorders.
Objectives
To synthesise the available evidence regarding the benefits and harms of rotator cuff repair with or without subacromial decompression in the treatment of rotator cuff tears of the shoulder. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Clinicaltrials.gov and WHO ICRTP registry unrestricted by date or language until 8 January 2019. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) including adults with full‐thickness rotator cuff tears and assessing the effect of rotator cuff repair compared to placebo, no treatment, or any other treatment were included. As there were no trials comparing surgery with placebo, the primary comparison was rotator cuff repair with or without subacromial decompression versus non‐operative treatment (exercises with or without glucocorticoid injection). Other comparisons were rotator cuff repair and acromioplasty versus rotator cuff repair alone, and rotator cuff repair and subacromial decompression versus subacromial decompression alone. Major outcomes were mean pain, shoulder function, quality of life, participant‐rated global assessment of treatment success, adverse events and serious adverse events. The primary endpoint for this review was one year. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodologic procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We included nine trials with 1007 participants. Three trials compared rotator cuff repair with subacromial decompression followed by exercises with exercise alone. These trials included 339 participants with full‐thickness rotator cuff tears diagnosed with magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or ultrasound examination. One of the three trials also provided up to three glucocorticoid injections in the exercise group. All surgery groups received tendon repair with subacromial decompression and the postoperative exercises were similar to the exercises provided for the non‐operative groups. Five trials (526 participants) compared repair with acromioplasty versus repair alone; and one trial (142 participants) compared repair with subacromial decompression versus subacromial decompression alone. 
The mean age of trial participants ranged between 56 and 68 years, and females comprised 29% to 56% of the participants. Symptom duration varied from a mean of 10 months up to 28 months. Two trials excluded tears with traumatic onset of symptoms. One trial defined a minimum duration of symptoms of six months and required a trial of conservative therapy before inclusion. The trials included mainly repairable full‐thickness supraspinatus tears, six trials specifically excluded tears involving the subscapularis tendon. 
All trials were at risk of bias for several criteria, most notably due to lack of participant and personnel blinding, but also for other reasons such as unclearly reported methods of random sequence generation or allocation concealment (six trials), incomplete outcome data (three trials), selective reporting (six trials), and other biases (six trials). 
Our main comparison was rotator cuff repair with or without subacromial decompression versus non‐operative treatment. We identified three trials for this comparison, that compared rotator cuff repair with subacromial decompression followed by exercises with exercise alone with or without glucocorticoid injections, and results are reported here for the 12 month follow up. 
At one year, moderate‐certainty evidence (downgraded for bias) from 3 trials with 258 participants indicates that surgery probably provides little or no improvement in pain; mean pain (range 0 to 10, higher scores indicate more pain) was 1.6 points with non‐operative treatment and 0.87 points better (0.43 better to 1.30 better) with surgery. Mean function (zero to 100, higher score indicating better outcome) was 72 points with non‐operative treatment and 6 points better (2.43 better to 9.54 better) with surgery (3 trials; 269 participants), low‐certainty evidence (downgraded for bias and imprecision). Participant‐rated global success rate was 48/55 after non‐operative treatment and 52/55 after surgery corresponding to risk ratio (RR) 1.08, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.96 to 1.22; low‐certainty evidence (downgraded for bias and imprecision). Health‐related quality of life was 57.5 points (SF‐36 mental component score, 0 to 100, higher score indicating better quality of life) with non‐operative treatment and 1.3 points worse (4.5 worse to 1.9 better) with surgery (1 trial; 103 participants), low‐certainty evidence (downgraded for bias and imprecision). 
