Background
Multiple sclerosis (MS) often leads to severe neurological disability and a serious decline in quality of life. The ideal target of disease‐modifying therapy for MS is to prevent disability worsening and improve quality of life. Dimethyl fumarate is considered to have an immunomodulatory activity and neuroprotective effect. It has been approved by the U.S. Food and Drug Administration (FDA) and the European Medicines Agency as a first‐line therapy for adult patients with relapsing‐remitting MS (RMSS). 
Objectives
To assess the benefit and safety of dimethyl fumarate as monotherapy or combination therapy versus placebo or other approved disease‐modifying drugs (interferon beta, glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, mitoxantrone, fingolimod, teriflunomide, alemtuzumab) for patients with MS.  
Search methods
The Trials Search Co‐ordinator searched the Trials Specialised Register of the Cochrane Multiple Sclerosis and Rare Diseases of the Central Nervous System Group (4 June 2014). We checked reference lists of published reviews and retrieved articles and searched reports (2004 to June 2014) from the MS societies in Europe and America. We also communicated with investigators participating in trials of dimethyl fumarate and the Biogen Idec Medical Information. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised, controlled, parallel‐group clinical trials (RCTs) with a length of follow‐up equal to or greater than one year evaluating dimethyl fumarate, as monotherapy or combination therapy, versus placebo or other approved disease‐modifying drugs for patients with MS without restrictions regarding dosage, administration frequency and duration of treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures of The Cochrane Collaboration. Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Disagreements were discussed and resolved by consensus among the review authors. We contacted the principal investigators of included studies for additional data or confirmation of data. 
