Background
Invasive fungal infection is an important cause of mortality and morbidity in very preterm and very low birth weight infants. Early diagnosis is difficult and treatment is often delayed. Systemically absorbed antifungal agents (usually azoles) are increasingly used as prophylaxis against invasive fungal infection in this population. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of prophylactic systemic antifungal therapy on mortality and morbidity in very preterm or very low birth weight infants. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group. This included searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2015, Issue 8), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL (to May 2015), conference proceedings, and previous reviews. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials or quasi‐randomised controlled trials that compared the effect of prophylactic systemic antifungal therapy versus placebo or no drug or another antifungal agent or dose regimen in very low birth weight infants. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data using the standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group, with separate evaluation of trial quality and data extraction by two review authors. 
Main results
We identified 15 eligible trials enrolling a total of 1690 infants. Ten trials (1371 infants) compared systemic antifungal prophylaxis versus placebo or no drug. These trials were generally of good methodological quality. Meta‐analysis found a statistically significant reduction in the incidence of invasive fungal infection (typical risk ratio (RR) 0.43, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.31 to 0.59; risk difference (RD) −0.09, 95% CI −0.12 to −0.06). The average incidence of invasive fungal infection in the control groups of the trials (16%) was much higher than that generally reported from large cohort studies. Meta‐analysis did not find a statistically significant difference in the risk of death prior to hospital discharge (typical RR 0.79, 95% CI 0.61 to 1.02; typical RD −0.04, 95% CI −0.07 to 0.00). Very limited data on long‐term neurodevelopmental outcomes were available. Three trials that compared systemic versus oral or topical non‐absorbed antifungal prophylaxis did not detect any statistically significant effects on invasive fungal infection or mortality. Two trials that compared different dose regimens of prophylactic intravenous fluconazole did not detect any significant differences in infection rates or mortality. 
