Background
Governments and health systems are increasingly using mobile devices to communicate with patients and the public. Targeted digital client communication is when the health system transmits information to particular individuals or groups of people, based on their health or demographic status. Common types of targeted client communication are text messages that remind people to go to appointments or take their medicines. Other types include phone calls, interactive voice response, or multimedia messages that offer healthcare information, advice, monitoring, and support. 
Objectives
To explore clients' perceptions and experiences of targeted digital communication via mobile devices on topics related to reproductive, maternal, newborn, child, or adolescent health (RMNCAH). 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE (OvidSP), MEDLINE In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations (OvidSP), Embase (Ovid), World Health Organization Global Health Library, and POPLINE databases for eligible studies from inception to 3‐6 July 2017 dependant on the database (See appendix 2). 
Selection criteria
We included studies that used qualitative methods for data collection and analysis; that explored clients' perceptions and experiences of targeted digital communication via mobile device in the areas of RMNCAH; and were from any setting globally. 
Data collection and analysis
We used maximum variation purposive sampling for data synthesis, employing a three‐step sampling frame. We conducted a framework thematic analysis using the Supporting the Use of Research Evidence (SURE) framework as our starting point. We assessed our confidence in the findings using the GRADE‐CERQual (Confidence in the Evidence from Reviews of Qualitative research) approach. We used a matrix approach to explore whether potential implementation barriers identified in our synthesis had been addressed in the trials included in the related Cochrane Reviews of effectiveness. 
Main results
We included 35 studies, from a wide range of countries on six continents. Nineteen studies were conducted in low‐ and middle‐income settings and sixteen in high‐income settings. Some of the studies explored the views of people who had experienced the interventions, whereas others were hypothetical in nature, asking what people felt they would like from a digital health intervention. The studies covered a range of digital targeted client communication, for example medication or appointment reminders, prenatal health information, support for smoking cessation while pregnant, or general sexual health information. 
