Background
Diuretics are widely prescribed for hypertension not only as a first‐line drug but also as a second‐line drug. Therefore, it is essential to determine the effects of diuretics on blood pressure (BP), heart rate and withdrawals due to adverse effects (WDAEs) when given as a second‐line drug. 
Objectives
To quantify the additional reduction in systolic blood pressure (SBP) and diastolic blood pressure (DBP) of diuretic therapy as a second‐line drug in patients with primary hypertension 
Search methods
CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2008, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1966‐July 2008), EMBASE (1988‐July 2008) and bibliographic citations of articles and reviews were searched. 
Selection criteria
Double‐blind, randomized, controlled trials evaluating the BP lowering efficacy of a diuretic in combination therapy with another class of anti‐hypertensive drugs compared with the respective monotherapy (without a diuretic) for a duration of 3 to 12 weeks in patients with primary hypertension. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted the data and assessed trial quality.
Main results
Fifty‐three double‐blind RCTs evaluating a thiazide in 15129 hypertensive patients (baseline BP of 156/101 mmHg) were included. Hydrochlorothiazide was the thiazide used in 49/53 (92%) of the included studies. The additional BP reduction caused by the thiazide as a second drug was estimated by comparing the difference in BP reduction between the combination and monotherapy groups. Thiazides as a second‐line drug reduced BP by 6/3 and 8/4 mmHg at doses of 1 and 2 times the manufacturer's recommended starting dose respectively. The BP lowering effect was dose related. The effect was similar to that obtained when thiazides are used as a single agent. Only 3 double‐blind RCTs evaluating loop diuretics were identified. These RCTs showed a BP lowering effect of a starting dose of about 6/3 mmHg. 
Authors' conclusions
Thiazides when given as a second‐line drug have a dose related effect to lower blood pressure that is similar to when they are added as a first‐line drug. This means that the BP lowering effect of thiazides is additive. Loop diuretics appear to have a similar blood pressure lowering effect as thiazides at 1 times the recommended starting dose. Because of the short duration of the trials and lack of reporting of adverse events, this review does not provide a good estimate of the incidence of adverse effects of diuretics given as a second‐line drug. 
