Background
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the most frequent cause of death in people with early stages of chronic kidney disease (CKD), for whom the absolute risk of cardiovascular events is similar to people who have existing coronary artery disease. This is an update of a review published in 2009, and includes evidence from 27 new studies (25,068 participants) in addition to the 26 studies (20,324 participants) assessed previously; and excludes three previously included studies (107 participants). This updated review includes 50 studies (45,285 participants); of these 38 (37,274 participants) were meta‐analysed. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits (such as reductions in all‐cause and cardiovascular mortality, major cardiovascular events, MI and stroke; and slow progression of CKD to end‐stage kidney disease (ESKD)) and harms (muscle and liver dysfunction, withdrawal, and cancer) of statins compared with placebo, no treatment, standard care or another statin in adults with CKD who were not on dialysis. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Renal Group's Specialised Register to 5 June 2012 through contact with the Trials' Search Co‐ordinator using search terms relevant to this review. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs that compared the effects of statins with placebo, no treatment, standard care, or other statins, on mortality, cardiovascular events, kidney function, toxicity, and lipid levels in adults with CKD not on dialysis were the focus of our literature searches. 
Data collection and analysis
Two or more authors independently extracted data and assessed study risk of bias. Treatment effects were expressed as mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes (lipids, creatinine clearance and proteinuria) and risk ratio (RR) for dichotomous outcomes (major cardiovascular events, all‐cause mortality, cardiovascular mortality, fatal or non‐fatal myocardial infarction (MI), fatal or non‐fatal stroke, ESKD, elevated liver enzymes, rhabdomyolysis, cancer and withdrawal rates) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
We included 50 studies (45,285 participants): 47 studies (39,820 participants) compared statins with placebo or no treatment and three studies (5547 participants) compared two different statin regimens in adults with CKD who were not yet on dialysis. We were able to meta‐analyse 38 studies (37,274 participants). 
