Background
Charcot‐Marie‐Tooth disease (CMT) comprises a large variety of different forms of motor and sensory neuropathies. The most frequent are demyelinating forms (CMT1) and axonal forms (CMT2). The molecular basis of several CMT forms has been clarified during the last 15 years. Since muscle wasting and sensory disturbance are the main features of these syndromes, treatments aim to improve motor impairment and sensory disturbances. Specific treatment trials are rare. 
Objectives
The objective was to review systematically all randomised and quasi‐randomised studies of any treatment for CMT. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Trials Register, MEDLINE (January 1966 to August 2007), EMBASE (January 1980 to August 2007), LILACS (January 1982 to August 2007) for randomised controlled trials of treatment for CMT. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised trials of any treatment for people with CMT. Where a study aimed to evaluate the treatment of general neuromuscular symptoms of people with peripheral neuropathy including CMT, we included the study if we were able to identify the effect of treatment in the CMT group. Observational studies and case reports on the treatment of people with CMT were not included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (PY and TBB) extracted the data, assessed study quality and performed data extraction independently. 
Main results
Only one trial with only eight participants met all the inclusion criteria and provided the primary outcome measure for this review. In this trial, four participants treated with neurotrophin‐3 had more improvement after six months on the Neuropathy Impairment Score, mean difference ‐9.50 (95% CI ‐13.77 to ‐5.23), than those four treated with placebo. Small trials of exercise training, creatine monohydrate, orthoses and purified bovine brain ganglioside injections (Cronassial) showed no significant benefit in people with genetically undefined CMT1 or CMT2. 
