Background
Obstructive sleep apnoea‐hypopnoea (OSAH) is a syndrome characterised by recurrent episodes of partial or complete upper airway obstruction during sleep that are usually terminated by an arousal. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is the primary treatment for OSAH , but many patients are unable or unwilling to comply with this treatment. Oral appliances (OA) are an alternative treatment for OSAH. 
Objectives
The objective was to review the effects of OA in the treatment of OSAH in adults.
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register. Searches were current as of June 2008. Reference lists of articles were also searched. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing OA with control or other treatments in adults with OSAH . 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted data and assessed trial quality. Study authors were contacted for missing information. 
Main results
Seventeen studies (831 participants) met the inclusion criteria. All the studies had some shortcomings, such as small sample size, under‐reporting of methods and data, and lack of blinding. OA versus control appliances (six studies): OA reduced daytime sleepiness in two crossover trials (ESS score ‐1.81; 95%CI ‐2.72 to ‐0.90), and improved apnoea‐hypopnoea index (AHI) (‐10.78 events/hr; 95% CI‐15.53 to ‐6.03 parallel group data ‐ five studies). OA versus CPAP (ten studies): There was no statistically significant difference in symptoms for either parallel or crossover studies, although OAs were less effective than CPAP in reducing apnoea‐hypopnoea index in parallel and crossover studies. CPAP was more effective at improving minimum arterial oxygen saturation during sleep compared with OA. In two small crossover studies, participants preferred OA therapy to CPAP. OA versus corrective upper airway surgery (one study): Symptoms of daytime sleepiness were initially lower with surgery, but this difference disappeared at 12 months. AHI did not differ significantly initially, but did so after 12 months in favour of OA. 
