Background
Endometriosis is characterized by the presence of tissue that is morphologically and biologically similar to normal endometrium in locations outside the uterus. Surgical and hormonal treatment of endometriosis have unpleasant side effects and high rates of relapse. In China, treatment of endometriosis using Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) is routine and considerable research into the role of CHM in alleviating pain, promoting fertility, and preventing relapse has taken place. 
This review is an update of a previous review published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2009, issue No 3. 
Objectives
To review the effectiveness and safety of CHM in alleviating endometriosis‐related pain and infertility. 
Search methods
We searched the Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library) and the following English language electronic databases (from their inception to 31/10/2011): MEDLINE, EMBASE, AMED, CINAHL, and NLH. 
We also searched Chinese language electronic databases: Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), Chinese Sci & Tech Journals (VIP), Traditional Chinese Medical Literature Analysis and Retrieval System (TCMLARS), and Chinese Medical Current Contents (CMCC). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving CHM versus placebo, biomedical treatment, another CHM intervention; or CHM plus biomedical treatment versus biomedical treatment were selected. Only trials with confirmed randomisation procedures and laparoscopic diagnosis of endometriosis were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Risk of bias assessment, and data extraction and analysis were performed independently by three review authors. Data were combined for meta‐analysis using relative risk (RR) for dichotomous data. A fixed‐effect statistical model was used, where appropriate. Data not suitable for meta‐analysis were presented as descriptive data. 
