Background
Idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH) is a type of communicating hydrocephalus also known as non‐obstructive hydrocephalus. This type of hydrocephalus is caused by impaired cerebrospinal fluid reabsorption without any obstruction in the ventricular system and is associated with normal cerebrospinal fluid pressure. It is characterised clinically by gait disturbance, cognitive dysfunction, and urinary incontinence (known as the Hakim‐Adams triad). The exact cause of iNPH is unknown. It may be managed conservatively or treated surgically by inserting a ventriculoperitoneal (VP) or ventriculoatrial (VA) shunt. However, a substantial number of patients do not respond well to surgical treatment, complication rates are high and there is often a need for further surgery. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is an alternative surgical intervention. It has been suggested that ETV may lead to better outcomes, including fewer complications. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of ETV for treatment of patients with iNPH compared to conservative therapy, or shunting of CSF using VP or VA shunts. 
To assess the perioperative and postoperative complication rates in patients with iNPH after ETV compared to conservative therapy, VP or VA shunting. 
Search methods
We searched for eligible studies using ALOIS: a comprehensive register of dementia studies, The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and several bibliographic databases such as MEDLINE (Ovid SP), EMBASE (Ovid SP), PsycINFO (Ovid SP), CINAHL (EBSCOhost) and LILACS (BIREME). 
We also searched the Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) to identify potentially relevant reviews. The search strategy was adapted for other databases, using the most appropriate controlled vocabulary for each. We did not apply any language or time restrictions. The searches were performed in August 2014. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of ETV treatment of iNPH. Patients had to have at least two symptoms of the Hakim‐Adams triad. Exclusion criteria were obstructive causes of hydrocephalus, other significant intracranial pathology and other confirmed causes of dementia. The eligible comparators were conservative treatment or shunting using VP and VA shunts. 
