Background
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is one of the most common inherited diseases worldwide. It is associated with lifelong morbidity and a reduced life expectancy. Hydroxyurea (hydroxycarbamide), an oral chemotherapeutic drug, ameliorates some of the clinical problems of SCD, in particular that of pain, by raising foetal haemoglobin (HbF). This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Objectives
The aims of this review are to determine through a review of randomised or quasi‐randomised studies whether the use of hydroxyurea in people with SCD alters the pattern of acute events, including pain; prevents, delays or reverses organ dysfunction; alters mortality and quality of life; or is associated with adverse effects. 
In addition, we hoped to assess whether the response to hydroxyurea in SCD varies with the type of SCD, age of the individual, duration and dose of treatment, and healthcare setting. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Haemoglobinopathies Register, comprising references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. We also searched online trial registries. The date of the most recent search was 17 February 2022. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials (RCTs and quasi‐RCTs), of one month or longer, comparing hydroxyurea with placebo or standard therapy in people  with SCD. 
Data collection and analysis
Authors independently assessed studies for inclusion, carried out data extraction, assessed the risk of bias and assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We included nine RCTs recruiting 1104 adults and children with SCD (haemoglobin SS (HbSS), haemoglobin SC (HbSC) or haemoglobin Sβºthalassaemia (HbSβºthal) genotypes). Studies lasted from six to 30 months. 
We judged the quality of the evidence for the first two comparisons below as moderate to low as the studies contributing to these comparisons were mostly large and well‐designed (and at low risk of bias); however, the evidence was limited and imprecise for some outcomes such as quality of life, deaths during the studies and adverse events, and the results are applicable only to individuals with HbSS and HbSβºthal genotypes. We judged the quality of the evidence for the third and fourth comparisons to be very low due to the limited number of participants, the lack of statistical power (both studies were terminated early with approximately only 20% of their target sample size recruited) and the lack of applicability to all age groups and genotypes. 
Hydroxyurea versus placebo 
Five studies (784 adults and children with HbSS or HbSβºthal) compared hydroxyurea to placebo; four recruited individuals with only severe disease and one recruited individuals with all disease severities. Hydroxyurea probably improves pain alteration (using measures such as pain crisis frequency, duration, intensity, hospital admissions and opoid use) and life‐threatening illness, but we found no difference in death rates (10 deaths occurred during the studies, but the rates did not differ by treatment group) (all moderate‐quality evidence). Hydroxyurea may improve measures of HbF (low‐quality evidence) and probably decreases neutrophil counts (moderate‐quality evidence). There were no consistent differences in terms of quality of life and adverse events (including serious or life‐threatening events) (low‐quality evidence). There were fewer occurrences of acute chest syndrome and blood transfusions in the hydroxyurea groups.  
