Background
Motor neuron disease (MND), which is also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), causes a wide range of symptoms but the evidence base for the effectiveness of the symptomatic treatment therapies is limited. 
Objectives
To summarise the evidence from Cochrane Systematic Reviews of all symptomatic treatments for MND. 
Methods
We searched the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR) on 15 November 2016 for systematic reviews of symptomatic treatments for MND. We assessed the methodological quality of the included reviews using the Assessment of Multiple Systematic Reviews (AMSTAR) tool and the GRADE approach. We followed standard Cochrane study (review) selection and data extraction procedures. We reported findings narratively and in tables. 
Main results
We included nine Cochrane Systematic Reviews of interventions to treat symptoms in people with MND. Three were empty reviews with no included randomised controlled trials (RCTs); however, all three reported on non‐RCT evidence and the remaining six included mostly one or two studies. We deemed all of the included reviews of high methodological quality. 
Drug therapy for pain 
There is no RCT evidence in a Cochrane Systematic Review exploring the efficacy of drug therapy for pain in MND. 
Treatment for cramps 
There is evidence (13 RCTs, N = 4012) that for the treatment of cramps in MND, compared to placebo: 
– memantine and tetrahydrocannabinol (THC) are probably ineffective (moderate‐quality evidence); 
– vitamin E may have little or no effect (low‐quality evidence); and
– the effects of L‐threonine, gabapentin, xaliproden, riluzole, and baclofen are uncertain as the evidence is either very low quality or the trial specified the outcome but did not report numerical data. 
The review reported adverse effects of riluzole, but it is not clear whether other interventions had adverse effects. 
Treatment for spasticity 
It is uncertain whether an endurance‐based exercise programme improved spasticity or quality of life, measured at three months after the programme, as the quality of evidence is very low (1 RCT, comparison "usual activities", N = 25). The review did not evaluate other approaches, such as use of baclofen as no RCTs were available. 
Mechanical ventilation for supporting respiratory function 
Non‐invasive ventilation (NIV) probably improves median survival and quality of life in people with respiratory insufficiency and normal to moderately impaired bulbar function compared to standard care, and improves quality of life but not survival for people with poor bulbar function (1 RCT, N = 41, moderate‐quality evidence; a second RCT did not provide data). The review did not evaluate other approaches such as tracheostomy‐assisted ('invasive') ventilation, or assess timing of NIV initiation. 
Treatment for sialorrhoea 
A single session of botulinum toxin type B injections to parotid and submandibular glands probably improves sialorrhoea and quality of life at up to 4 weeks compared to placebo injections, but not at 8 or 12 weeks after the injections (moderate‐quality evidence from 1 placebo‐controlled RCT, N = 20). The review authors found no trials of other approaches. 
Enteral tube feeding for supporting nutrition 
There is no RCT evidence in a Cochrane Systematic Review to support benefit or harms of enteral tube feeding in supporting nutrition in MND. 
Repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation 
It is uncertain whether repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) improves disability or limitation in activity in MND in comparison with sham rTMS (3 RCTs, very low quality evidence, N = 50). 
