Background
Antiplatelet agents are widely used to prevent cardiovascular events. The risks and benefits of antiplatelet agents may be different in people with chronic kidney disease (CKD) for whom occlusive atherosclerotic events are less prevalent, and bleeding hazards might be increased. This is an update of a review first published in 2013. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits and harms of antiplatelet agents in people with any form of CKD, including those with CKD not receiving renal replacement therapy, patients receiving any form of dialysis, and kidney transplant recipients. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 13 July 2021 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised controlled trials of any antiplatelet agents versus placebo or no treatment, or direct head‐to‐head antiplatelet agent studies in people with CKD. Studies were included if they enrolled participants with CKD, or included people in broader at‐risk populations in which data for subgroups with CKD could be disaggregated. 
Data collection and analysis
Four authors independently extracted data from primary study reports and any available supplementary information for study population, interventions, outcomes, and risks of bias. Risk ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) were calculated from numbers of events and numbers of participants at risk which were extracted from each included study. The reported RRs were extracted where crude event rates were not provided. Data were pooled using the random‐effects model. Confidence in the evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. 
Main results
We included 113 studies, enrolling 51,959 participants; 90 studies (40,597 CKD participants) compared an antiplatelet agent with placebo or no treatment, and 29 studies (11,805 CKD participants) directly compared one antiplatelet agent with another. Fifty‐six new studies were added to this 2021 update. Seven studies originally excluded from the 2013 review were included, although they had a follow‐up lower than two months. 
Random sequence generation and allocation concealment were at low risk of bias in 16 and 22 studies, respectively. Sixty‐four studies reported low‐risk methods for blinding of participants and investigators; outcome assessment was blinded in 41 studies. Forty‐one studies were at low risk of attrition bias, 50 studies were at low risk of selective reporting bias, and 57 studies were at low risk of other potential sources of bias. 
