Background
Length of postnatal hospital stay has declined dramatically in the past 50 years. There is ongoing controversy about whether staying less time in hospital is harmful or beneficial. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2002, and previously updated in 2009. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of a policy of early postnatal discharge from hospital for healthy mothers and term infants in terms of important maternal, infant and paternal health and related outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (21 May 2021) and the reference lists of retrieved articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing early discharge from hospital of healthy mothers and term infants (at least 37 weeks' gestation and greater than or equal to 2500 g), with the standard care in the respective settings in which trials were conducted. Trials using allocation methods that were not truly random (e.g. based on patient number or day of the week), trials with a cluster‐randomisation design and trials published only in abstract form were also eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted and checked data for accuracy, and assessed the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. We contacted authors of ongoing trials for additional information. 
Main results
We identified 17 trials (involving 9409 women) that met our inclusion criteria. We did not identify any trials from low‐income countries. There was substantial variation in the definition of 'early discharge', ranging from six hours to four to five days. The extent of antenatal preparation and midwifery home care offered to women following discharge in intervention and control groups also varied considerably among trials. Nine trials recruited and randomised women in pregnancy, seven trials randomised women following childbirth and one did not report whether randomisation took place before or after childbirth. 
