Background
Active management of the third stage of labour involves giving a prophylactic uterotonic, early cord clamping and controlled cord traction to deliver the placenta. With expectant management, signs of placental separation are awaited and the placenta is delivered spontaneously. Active management was introduced to try to reduce haemorrhage, a major contributor to maternal mortality in low‐income countries. This is an update of a review last published in 2015. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of active versus expectant management of the third stage of labour on severe primary postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) and other maternal and infant outcomes. 
To compare the effects of variations in the packages of active and expectant management of the third stage of labour on severe primary PPH and other maternal and infant outcomes. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov and the World health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), on 22 January 2018, and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing active versus expectant management of the third stage of labour. Cluster‐randomised trials were eligible for inclusion, but none were identified. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the studies for inclusion, assessed risk of bias, carried out data extraction and assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included eight studies, involving analysis of data from 8892 women. The studies were all undertaken in hospitals, seven in higher‐income countries and one in a lower‐income country. Four studies compared active versus expectant management, and four compared active versus a mixture of managements. We used a random‐effects model in the analyses because of clinical heterogeneity. Of the eight studies included, we considered three studies as having low risk of bias in the main aspects of sequence generation, allocation concealment and completeness of data collection. There was an absence of high‐quality evidence according to GRADE assessments for our primary outcomes, which is reflected in the cautious language below. 
