Background
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder. In approximately 30% of epilepsy cases, seizures are uncontrolled by one antiepileptic drug (AED). These people require treatment with a combination of multiple AEDs and are described as having drug‐resistant epilepsy. Oxcarbazepine is a keto‐analogue of carbamazepine, an established AED, and can be used as an add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of oxcarbazepine as an add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Search methods
The following databases were searched on 24 September 2018: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web), which includes the Cochrane Epilepsy Group Specialized Register and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Medline (Ovid) 1946 to 21 September 2018; ClinicalTrials.gov; and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). Originally, we also searched SCOPUS as a substitute for Embase, but this is no longer necessary, because randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials in Embase are now included in CENTRAL. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials with parallel‐group or cross‐over design, recruiting people of any age with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. We accepted any level of blinding and trials could be placebo‐ or active‐controlled. 
Data collection and analysis
In accordance with the methodological procedures expected by the Cochrane Collaboration, two review authors independently assessed trial eligibility before extracting data and assessing risk of bias. We assessed the primary outcomes: median percentage seizure reduction per 28 days; 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency; and adverse effects including ataxia, hyponatraemia, and somnolence. We assessed the secondary outcomes: seizure freedom; treatment withdrawal; cognitive effects; and quality of life. We used an intention‐to‐treat population for all primary analyses. We present results as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), with the exception of adverse effects which we present with 99% CI. 
