Background
This is one of three Cochrane reviews that examine the role of the telephone in HIV/AIDS services. Both in developed and developing countries there is a large proportion of people who do not know they are infected with HIV. Knowledge of one's own HIV serostatus is necessary to access HIV support, care and treatment and to prevent acquisition or further transmission of HIV. Using telephones instead of face‐to‐face or other means of HIV test results delivery could lead to more people receiving their HIV test results. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of telephone use for delivery of HIV test results and post‐test counselling. 
To evaluate the effectiveness of delivering HIV test results by telephone, we were interested in whether they can increase the proportion of people who receive their HIV test results and the number of people knowing their HIV status. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, PubMed Central, PsycINFO, ISI Web of Science, Cumulative Index to Nursing & Allied Health (CINAHL), WHOs The Global Health Library and Current Controlled Trials from 1980 to June 2011. We also searched grey literature sources such as Dissertation Abstracts International,CAB Direct Global Health, OpenSIGLE, The Healthcare Management Information Consortium, Google Scholar, Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, International AIDS Society and AEGIS Education Global Information System, and reference lists of relevant studies for this review. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐randomised controlled trials (qRCTs), controlled before and after studies (CBAs), and interrupted time series (ITS) studies comparing the effectiveness of telephone HIV test results notification and post‐test counselling to face‐to‐face or other ways of HIV test result delivery in people regardless of their demographic characteristics and in all settings. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently searched, screened, assessed study quality and extracted data. A third reviewer resolved any disagreement. 
Main results
Out of 14 717 citations, only one study met the inclusion criteria; an RCT conducted on homeless and high‐risk youth between September 1998 and October 1999 in Portland, United States. Participants (n=351) were offered counselling and oral HIV testing and were randomised into face‐to‐face (n=187 participants) and telephone (n=167) notification groups. The telephone notification group had the option of receiving HIV test results either by telephone or face‐to‐face. Overall, only 48% (n=168) of participants received their HIV test results and post‐test counselling. Significantly more participants received their HIV test results in the telephone notification group compared to the face‐to‐face notification group; 58% (n=106) vs. 37% (n=62) (p < 0.001). In the telephone notification group, the majority of participants who received their HIV test results did so by telephone (88%, n=93). The study could not offer information about the effectiveness of telephone HIV test notification with HIV‐positive participants because only two youth tested positive and both were assigned to the face‐to‐face notification group. The study had a high risk of bias. 
