Background
Alcohol‐related liver disease is due to excessive alcohol consumption. It includes a spectrum of liver diseases such as alcohol‐related fatty liver, alcoholic hepatitis, and alcoholic cirrhosis. Mortality associated with alcoholic hepatitis is high. The optimal pharmacological treatment of alcoholic hepatitis and other alcohol‐related liver disease remains controversial. 
Objectives
To assess the comparative benefits and harms of different pharmacological interventions in the management of alcohol‐related liver disease through a network meta‐analysis and to generate rankings of the available pharmacological interventions according to their safety and efficacy in order to identify potential treatments. However, even in the subgroup of participants when the potential effect modifiers appeared reasonably similar across comparisons, there was evidence of inconsistency by one or more methods of assessment of inconsistency. Therefore, we did not report the results of the network meta‐analysis and reported the comparative benefits and harms of different interventions using standard Cochrane methodology. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded, World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and randomised controlled trials registers until February 2017 to identify randomised clinical trials on pharmacological treatments for alcohol‐related liver diseases. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials (irrespective of language, blinding, or publication status) including participants with alcohol‐related liver disease. We excluded trials that included participants who had previously undergone liver transplantation and those with co‐existing chronic viral diseases. We considered any of the various pharmacological interventions compared with each other or with placebo or no intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified trials and independently extracted data. We calculated the odds ratio (OR) and rate ratio with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) using both fixed‐effect and random‐effects models based on available‐participant analysis with Review Manager. We assessed risk of bias according to Cochrane, controlled risk of random errors with Trial Sequential Analysis, and assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We identified a total of 81 randomised clinical trials. All the trials were at high risk of bias, and the overall quality of the evidence was low or very low for all outcomes. 
