Background
Various techniques have been employed for the early detection of perioperative cerebral ischaemia and hypoxia. Cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) is increasingly used in this clinical scenario to monitor brain oxygenation. However, it is unknown whether perioperative cerebral NIRS monitoring and the subsequent treatment strategies are of benefit to patients. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of perioperative cerebral NIRS monitoring and corresponding treatment strategies in adults and children, compared with blinded or no cerebral oxygenation monitoring, or cerebral oxygenation monitoring based on non‐NIRS technologies, on the detection of cerebral oxygen desaturation events (CDEs), neurological outcomes, non‐neurological outcomes and socioeconomic impact (including cost of hospitalization and length of hospital stay). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2016, Issue 12), Embase (1974 to 20 December 2016) and MEDLINE (PubMed) (1975 to 20 December 2016). We also searched the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for ongoing studies on 20 December 2016. We updated this search in November 2017, but these results have not yet been incorporated in the review. We imposed no language restriction. 
Selection criteria
We included all relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs) dealing with the use of cerebral NIRS in the perioperative setting (during the operation and within 72 hours after the operation), including the operating room, the postanaesthesia care unit and the intensive care unit. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected studies, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. For binary outcomes, we calculated the risk ratio (RR) and its 95% confidence interval (CI). For continuous data, we estimated the mean difference (MD) between groups and its 95% CI. As we expected clinical and methodological heterogeneity between studies, we employed a random‐effects model for analyses and we examined the data for heterogeneity (I2 statistic). We created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADEpro. 
Main results
We included 15 studies in the review, comprising a total of 1822 adult participants. There are 12 studies awaiting classification, and eight ongoing studies. 
None of the 15 included studies considered the paediatric population. Four studies were conducted in the abdominal and orthopaedic surgery setting (lumbar spine, or knee and hip replacement), one study in the carotid endarterectomy setting, and the remaining 10 studies in the aortic or cardiac surgery setting. The main sources of bias in the included studies related to potential conflict of interest from industry sponsorship, unclear blinding status or missing participant data. 
Two studies with 312 participants considered postoperative neurological injury, however no pooled effect estimate could be calculated due to discordant direction of effect between studies (low‐quality evidence). One study (N = 126) in participants undergoing major abdominal surgery reported that 4/66 participants experienced neurological injury with blinded monitoring versus 0/56 in the active monitoring group. A second study (N = 195) in participants having coronary artery bypass surgery reported that 1/96 participants experienced neurological injury in the blinded monitoring group compared with 4/94 participants in the active monitoring group. 
We are uncertain whether active cerebral NIRS monitoring has an important effect on the risk of postoperative stroke because of the low number of events and wide confidence interval (RR 0.25, 95% CI 0.03 to 2.20; 2 studies, 240 participants; low‐quality evidence). 
We are uncertain whether active cerebral NIRS monitoring has an important effect on postoperative delirium because of the wide confidence interval (RR 0.63, 95% CI 0.27 to 1.45; 1 study, 190 participants; low‐quality evidence). 
Two studies with 126 participants showed that active cerebral NIRS monitoring may reduce the incidence of mild postoperative cognitive dysfunction (POCD) as defined by the original studies at one week after surgery (RR 0.53, 95% CI 0.30 to 0.95, I2 = 49%, low‐quality evidence). 
Based on six studies with 962 participants, there was moderate‐quality evidence that active cerebral oxygenation monitoring probably does not decrease the occurrence of POCD (decline in cognitive function) at one week after surgery (RR 0.62, 95% CI 0.37 to 1.04, I2 = 80%). The different type of monitoring equipment in one study could potentially be the cause of the heterogeneity. 
