Background
Structured treatment interruptions (STI) of antiretroviral therapy (ART) have been investigated as part of novel treatment strategies, with different aims and objectives depending on the populations involved. These populations include: 1) patients who initiate ART during acute HIV infection; 2) patients with chronic HIV infection, on ART, with successfully suppressed viremia; and 3) patients with chronic HIV infection and treatment failure, with persistent viremia due to multi‐drug resistant HIV (Hirschel 2001; Deeks 2002; Miller 2003). 
In an earlier Cochrane review (Pai 2005), we had summarized the evidence about the effects of STI in chronic suppressed HIV infection. In this review, we summarize the evidence on STI in patients with chronic unsuppressed HIV infection due to drug‐resistant HIV. Unsuppressed HIV infection describes those patients who cannot suppress viremia, due to the presence of multi‐drug‐resistant virus. It is also referred to as treatment failure.   Drug resistance is identified by the presence of resistant mutations at baseline. 
STI as a treatment strategy in HIV‐infected patients with chronic unsuppressed viremia involves interrupting ART in controlled clinical settings, for a pre‐specified duration of time. These interruptions have various aims, including the following: 1) to allow wild virus to re‐emerge and replace the resistant mutant virus, with the hope of improving the efficacy of a subsequent ART regimen; 2) to halt development of drug resistance and to preserve subsequent treatment options; 3) to alleviate treatment fatigue and reduce drug‐related adverse effects; and 4) to improve quality of life (Miller 2003; Montaner 2001; Vella 2000;). 
Objectives
The objective of our systematic review was to synthesize the evidence on the effect of structured treatment interruptions in adult patients with chronic unsuppressed HIV infection. 
Search methods
We included all available intervention studies (randomized controlled trials and non‐randomized trials) conducted in HIV‐infected patients worldwide. We searched nine databases, covering the period from January 1996 to February 2006. We also scanned bibliographies of relevant studies and contacted experts in the field to identify unpublished research, abstracts and ongoing trials. 
In the first screen, a total of 3186 potentially eligible citations from nine databases and sources were identified, of which 2047 duplicate citations were excluded. The remaining 1139 citations were examined in detail, and we further excluded 951 citations that were modeling studies, animal studies, case reports, and opinion pieces. As shown in Figure 01, 188 citations were identified in the second screen as relevant for full‐text screening. Of these, 60 basic science studies, editorials and abstracts were excluded and 128 full‐text articles were retrieved. In the third screen, all full‐text articles were examined for eligibility in our review. These were subclassified into three categories: 1) chronic suppressed HIV infection; 2) chronic unsuppressed HIV infection; and 3) acute HIV infection. Studies were further excluded if their abstracts did not contain enough information for inclusion in our reviews. A total of 62 studies were finally classified into chronic suppressed, acute, and chronic unsuppressed categories. Of these, 17 trials met the eligibility criteria for this review. 
Selection criteria
Inclusion criteria  All available randomized or non‐randomized controlled trials investigating planned treatment interruptions among patients with chronic unsuppressed HIV infection. Early pilot non‐randomized prospective studies on treatment interruptions of fixed and variable durations were also included. Relevant abstracts on randomized controlled trials were also included if they contained sufficient information. 
Exclusion criteria  Editorials, reviews, modeling studies, and basic science studies were excluded. Studies on STI among patients with chronic suppressed HIV infection were summarized in a separate review. Studies on STI in primary HIV infection were beyond the scope of this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently extracted data, evaluated study eligibility and quality. Disagreements were resolved in consultation with a third reviewer. 
A total of seventeen studies on STI were included in our review. However, due to significant heterogeneity across studies (i.e. in study design, populations, baseline characteristics, and reported outcomes; and in reporting of measures of effect, hazard ratios, and risk ratios), we considered it inappropriate to perform a meta‐analysis. 
