Background
The para‐aortic lymph nodes (located along the major vessels in the mid and upper abdomen) are a common place for disease recurrence after treatment for locally advanced cervical cancer. The para‐aortic area is not covered by standard pelvic radiotherapy fields and so treatment to the pelvis alone is inadequate for women at a high risk of occult cancer within para‐aortic lymph nodes. Extended‐field radiotherapy (RT) widens the pelvic RT field to include the para‐aortic lymph node area. Extended‐field RT may improve outcomes in women with locally advanced cervical cancer by treating occult disease in para‐aortic nodes not identified at pretreatment imaging. However, RT treatment of the para‐aortic area can cause severe adverse effects, so may increase harms. 
Studies of pelvic chemoradiotherapy (CRT) demonstrated improved survival rates compared to pelvic RT alone. CRT is now the standard of care in the treatment of locally advanced cervical cancer. Studies comparing pelvic RT alone (without concurrent chemotherapy) with extended‐field RT should therefore be viewed with caution, since they compare treatments against what is now substandard treatment (pelvic RT alone). This review should therefore be read with this in mind and comparisons with pelvic RT cannot be extrapolated to pelvic CRT. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and toxicity of extended‐field radiotherapy in women undergoing first‐line treatment for locally advanced cervical cancer. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 7), MEDLINE via Ovid (1946 to August week 4, 2018), and Embase via Ovid (1980 to 2018, week 35). We checked registers of clinical trials, grey literature, conference reports, and citation lists of included studies to August 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the effectiveness and toxicity of extended‐field RT for locally advanced cervical cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected potentially relevant RCTs, extracted data, assessed risk of bias, compared results, and made judgements on the quality and certainty of the evidence for each outcome. Any disagreements were resolved by discussion or consultation with a third review author. 
