Background
Dual‐method contraception refers to using condoms as well as another modern method of contraception. The latter (usually non‐barrier) method is commonly hormonal (e.g., oral contraceptives) or a non‐hormonal intrauterine device. Use of two methods can better prevent pregnancy and the transmission of HIV and other sexually transmitted infections (STIs) compared to single‐method use. Unprotected sex increases risk for disease, disability, and mortality in many areas due to the prevalence and incidence of HIV/STI. Millions of women, especially in lower‐resource areas, also have an unmet need for protection against unintended pregnancy. 
Objectives
We examined comparative studies of behavioral interventions for improving use of dual methods of contraception. Dual‐method use refers to using condoms as well as another modern contraceptive method. Our intent was to identify effective interventions for preventing pregnancy as well as HIV/STI transmission. 
Search methods
Through January 2014, we searched MEDLINE, CENTRAL, POPLINE, EMBASE, COPAC, and Open Grey. In addition, we searched ClinicalTrials.gov and ICTRP for current trials and trials with relevant data or reports. We examined reference lists of pertinent papers, including review articles, for additional reports. 
Selection criteria
Studies could be either randomized or non‐randomized. They examined a behavioral intervention with an educational or counseling component to encourage or improve the use of dual methods, i.e., condoms and another modern contraceptive. The intervention had to address preventing pregnancy as well as the transmission of HIV/STI. The program or service could be targeted to individuals, couples, or communities. The comparison condition could be another behavioral intervention to improve contraceptive use, usual care, other health education, or no intervention. 
Studies had to report use of dual methods, i.e., condoms plus another modern contraceptive method. We focused on the investigator’s assessment of consistent dual‐method use or use at last sex. Outcomes had to be measured at least three months after the behavioral intervention began. 
