Background
Fracture of the distal radius is a common injury. A surgical treatment is external fixation, where metal pins inserted into bone on either side of the fracture are then fixed to an external frame. 
Objectives
To evaluate the evidence from randomised controlled trials comparing different methods of external fixation for distal radial fractures in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (June 2007), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE and other databases, conference proceedings and reference lists of articles. No language restrictions were applied. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled clinical trials which compared different methods of external fixation in adults with a distal radial fracture. 
Data collection and analysis
All review authors independently performed study selection. Two authors independently assessed the included trials and performed data extraction. 
Main results
Nine small trials involving 510 adults with potentially or evidently unstable fractures, were grouped into five comparisons. The interventional, clinical and methodological heterogeneity of trials precluded data pooling. Only one trial had secure allocation concealment. 
Two trials comparing a bridging (of the wrist) external fixator versus pins and plaster external fixation found no significant differences in function or deformity. One trial found tendencies for more serious complications but less subsequent discomfort and deformity in the fixator group. 
Three trials compared non‐bridging versus bridging fixation. Of the two trials testing uni‐planar non‐bridging fixation, one found no significant differences in functional or clinical outcomes; the other found non‐bridging fixation significantly improved grip strength, wrist flexion and anatomical outcome. The third trial found no significant findings in favour of multi‐planar non‐bridging fixation of complex intra‐articular fractures. 
