Background
This review is one of six looking at the primary medical management options for patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. 
Chronic rhinosinusitis is common and is characterised by inflammation of the lining of the nose and paranasal sinuses leading to nasal blockage, nasal discharge, facial pressure/pain and loss of sense of smell. The condition can occur with or without nasal polyps. Topical (intranasal) corticosteroids are used with the aim of reducing inflammation in the sinonasal mucosa in order to improve patient symptoms. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different types of intranasal steroids in people with chronic rhinosinusitis. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the ENT Trials Register; Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2015, Issue 7); MEDLINE; EMBASE; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 11 August 2015. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with a follow‐up period of at least three months comparing first‐generation intranasal corticosteroids (e.g. beclomethasone dipropionate, triamcinolone acetonide, flunisolide, budesonide) with second‐generation intranasal corticosteroids (e.g. ciclesonide, fluticasone furoate, fluticasone propionate, mometasone furoate, betamethasone sodium phosphate), or sprays versus drops, or low‐dose versus high‐dose intranasal corticosteroids. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Our primary outcomes were disease‐specific health‐related quality of life (HRQL), patient‐reported disease severity and the commonest adverse event ‐ epistaxis (nosebleed). Secondary outcomes included general HRQL, endoscopic nasal polyp score, computerised tomography (CT) scan score and the adverse event of local irritation. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome; this is indicated in italics. 
Main results
We included nine RCTs (911 participants), including four different comparisons. None of the studies evaluated our first primary outcome measure, disease‐specific HRQL. 
Fluticasone propionate versus beclomethasone dipropionate 
We identified two small studies (56 participants with polyps) that evaluated disease severity  and looked at the primary adverse effect: epistaxis  , but no other outcomes. We cannot report any numerical data but the study authors reported no difference between the two steroids. The evidence was of very low quality. 
Fluticasone propionate versus mometasone furoate 
We identified only one study (100 participants with polyps) that evaluated disease severity  (nasal symptoms scores), which reported no difference (no numerical data available). The evidence was of very low quality. 
