Background
Heparin as an adjunct in assisted reproduction (peri‐implantation heparin) is given at or after egg collection or at embryo transfer. Heparin has been advocated to improve embryo implantation and clinical outcomes.  It is proposed that heparin may enhance the intra‐uterine environment by improving decidualisation with an associated activation of growth factors and a cytokine expression profile in the endometrium that is favourable to pregnancy. 
Objectives
To investigate whether the administration of heparin around the time of implantation (peri‐implantation heparin) improves clinical outcomes in subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction. 
Search methods
A comprehensive and exhaustive search strategy was developed in consultation with the Trials Search Co‐ordinator of the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group (MDSG). The strategy was used in an attempt to identify all relevant studies regardless of language or publication status (published, unpublished, in press, and in progress). Relevant trials were identified from both electronic databases and other resources (last search 6 May 2013). 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were included where peri‐implantation heparin was given during assisted reproduction. Live birth rate was the primary outcome. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the eligibility and quality of trials and extracted relevant data. The quality of the evidence was evaluated using GRADE methods. 
Main results
Three RCTs (involving 386 women) were included in the review. Peri‐implantation low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) during IVF/ICSI was given at or after egg collection or at embryo transfer in these studies. The characteristics of the participants differed across studies. One included women having their first IVF cycle, with no blood clotting disorder; another included women with at least one blood clotting disorder and the third included women who had undergone at least two previous unsuccessful ART cycles. 
Our findings differed according to choice of statistical model. When we used a fixed effect analysis, the evidence suggested that peri‐implantation heparin was associated with an improvement in live birth rate compared with placebo or no heparin (odds ratio (OR) 1.77, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.07 to 2.90, three studies, 386 women, I2 = 51%, very low quality evidence) and also an improvement in the clinical pregnancy rate (OR 1.61, 95% CI 1.03 to 2.53, three studies, 386 women, I2 = 29%, low quality evidence). However when a random effects model was used there was no longer a difference between the groups for either live birth (OR 1.85, 95% CI 0.80 to 4.24) or clinical pregnancy (OR 1.66, 95% CI 0.94 to 2.90). Moreover there was high heterogeneity (I2 = 51%) for the analysis of live birth. 
Adverse events were poorly reported in all the included studies. Events such as bleeding, and thrombocytopenia were reported in women receiving heparin and affected 5‐7% of women in the heparin group in one study. However no studies reported data suitable for analysis and so no firm conclusions could be drawn regarding adverse effects. 
