Background
Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) is the single leading cause of maternal mortality worldwide. Most of the deaths associated with PPH occur in resource‐poor settings where effective methods of prevention and treatment ‐ such as oxytocin ‐ are not accessible because many births still occur at home, or in community settings, far from a health facility. Likewise, most of the evidence supporting oxytocin effectiveness comes from hospital settings in high‐income countries, mainly because of the need of well‐organised care for its administration and monitoring. Easier methods for oxytocin administration have been developed for use in resource‐poor settings, but as far as we know, its effectiveness has not been assessed in a systematic review. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of oxytocin provided in non‐facility birth settings by any way in the third stage of labour to prevent PPH. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), ClinicalTrials.gov (12 November 2015), and reference lists of retrieved reports. 
Selection criteria
All published, unpublished or ongoing randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing the administration of oxytocin with no intervention, or usual/standard care for the management of the third stage of labour in non‐facility birth settings were considered for inclusion. 
Quasi‐randomised controlled trials and randomised controlled trials published in abstract form only were eligible for inclusion but none were identified. Cross‐over trials were not eligible for inclusion in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for eligibility, assessed risk of bias and extracted the data using an agreed data extraction form. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included one cluster‐randomised trial conducted in four rural districts in Ghana that randomised 28 community health officers (CHOs) (serving 2404 potentially eligible pregnant women) to the intervention group and 26 CHOs (serving 3515 potentially eligible pregnant women) to the control group. Overall, the trial had a high risk of bias. CHOs delivered the intervention in the experimental group (injection of 10 IU (international units) of oxytocin in the thigh one minute following birth using a prefilled, auto‐disposable syringe). In the control group, CHOs did not provide this prophylactic injection to the women they observed. CHOs had no midwifery skills and did not in any way manage the birth. All other CHO activities (outcome measurement, data collection, and early treatment and referral when necessary) were identical across the control and oxytocin CHOs. 
