Thirteen new studies were identified for the update of this review. In total, we included 33 cohort studies including 7876 participants investigating hepatic late adverse effects after antineoplastic treatment (especially chemotherapy and radiotherapy) for different types of childhood cancer, both haematological and solid malignancies. All studies had methodological limitations. The prevalence of hepatic late adverse effects, all defined in a biochemical way, varied widely, between 0% and 84.2%. Selecting studies where the outcome of hepatic late adverse effects was well‐defined as alanine aminotransferase (ALT) above the upper limit of normal, indicating cellular liver injury, resulted in eight studies. In this subgroup, the prevalence of hepatic late adverse effects ranged from 5.8% to 52.8%, with median follow‐up durations varying from three to 23 years since cancer diagnosis in studies that reported the median follow‐up duration. A more stringent selection process using the outcome definition of ALT as above twice the upper limit of normal, resulted in five studies, with a prevalence ranging from 0.9% to 44.8%. One study investigated biliary tract injury, defined as gamma‐glutamyltransferase (γGT) above the upper limit of normal and above twice the upper limit of normal and reported a prevalence of 5.3% and 0.9%, respectively. Three studies investigated disturbance in biliary function, defined as bilirubin above the upper limit of normal and reported prevalences ranging from 0% to 8.7%. Two studies showed that treatment with radiotherapy involving the liver (especially after a high percentage of the liver irradiated), higher BMI, and longer follow‐up time or older age at evaluation increased the risk of cellular liver injury in multivariable analyses. In addition, there was some suggestion that busulfan, thioguanine, hepatic surgery, chronic viral hepatitis C, metabolic syndrome, use of statins, non‐Hispanic white ethnicity, and higher alcohol intake (> 14 units per week) increase the risk of cellular liver injury in multivariable analyses. Chronic viral hepatitis was shown to increase the risk of cellular liver injury in six univariable analyses as well. Moreover, one study showed that treatment with radiotherapy involving the liver, higher BMI, higher alcohol intake (> 14 units per week), longer follow‐up time, and older age at cancer diagnosis increased the risk of biliary tract injury in a multivariable analysis. 