Background
Bacillus Calmette‐Guerín (BCG) is a live attenuated vaccine to prevent tuberculosis, routinely administered at birth as part of the World Health Organization global expanded immunisation programme. Given intradermally, it can cause adverse reactions, including local, regional, distant and disseminated manifestations that may cause parental distress. Rarely, it can cause serious illness and even death. Among those patients with immunocompromised conditions, such as the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection, the complication rate is even higher. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different interventions for treating BCG‐induced disease in children. 
Search methods
The following databases were searched: the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register and Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), published in The Cochrane Library (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 4); MEDLINE (1966 to November 2012); EMBASE (1947 to November 2012); and LILACS (1980 to November 2012). The metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) and the WHO trials search portal. Conference proceedings for relevant abstracts and experts were also contacted to identify studies. No language restrictions were applied. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing any medical or surgical treatment modality for BCG‐induced disease in children. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently evaluated titles, applied inclusion criteria, and assessed the risk of bias of studies. The primary outcomes were the failure rate of therapies for all types of BCG vaccine‐induced complications and the time to resolution of illness measured in months. The secondary outcomes were death from BCG vaccine‐induced disease and the all‐cause mortality. Risk ratios (RRs) were used as measure of effect for dichotomous outcomes and mean differences for continuous outcomes. 
Main results
Five RCTs analysing 341 children addressed the primary outcomes and were included. Four arms compared oral antibiotics to no intervention or placebo, one arm evaluated needle aspiration compared to no intervention, and another evaluated the use of locally instilled isoniazid versus oral erythromycin. 
Two small studies evaluated oral isoniazid; we are uncertain of whether this intervention has an effect on clinical failure (RR 1.48; 95% Confidence Interval (CI) 0.79 to 2.78; 54 participants, two studies, very low quality evidence). Similarly, for oral erythromycin, we are uncertain if there is an effect (clinical failure RR 1.03; 95% CI 0.70 to 1.53; 148 participants, three studies, very low quality evidence), and for oral isoniazid plus rifampicin (clinical failure, RR 1.20; 95% CI 0.51 to 2.83; 35 participants, one study, very low quality evidence). 
In patients with lymphadenitis abscess, needle aspiration may reduce clinically persistent BCG‐induced disease at 6 to 9 months of follow‐up (RR 0.13; 95% CI 0.03 to 0.55; 77 participants, one study, low quality evidence). In another study of patients with the same condition, aspiration plus local instillation of isoniazid reduces time to clinical cure compared to aspiration plus oral erythromycin (mean difference 1.49 months less; 95% CI 0.82 to 2.15 less; 27 participants, one study). 
No RCTs of HIV‐infected infants with a BCG‐induced disease evaluated the use of antibiotics or other therapies for reducing the rate of clinical failure or the time to clinical resolution. No data on mortality secondary to the interventions for treating BCG‐induced disease were reported. 
