Background
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide, and is a leading cause of cancer death among women. Prophylactic or curative mastectomy is often followed by breast reconstruction for which there are several surgical approaches that use breast implants with which surgeons can restore the natural feel, size and shape of the breast. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different types of breast implants on capsular contracture, surgical short‐ and long‐term complications, postoperative satisfaction level and quality of life in women who have undergone reconstructive breast surgery after mastectomy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Breast Cancer Group's Specialised Register on 20 July 2015, MEDLINE (1985 to 20 July 2015), EMBASE (1985 to 20 July 2015) and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; Issue 8, 2015). We also searched the World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP) and ClinicalTrials.gov on 16 July 2015. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs that compared different types of breast implants for reconstructive surgery. We considered the following types of intervention: implant envelope surfaces ‐ texturised versus smooth; implant filler material ‐ silicone versus saline, PVP‐Hydrogel versus saline; implant shape ‐ anatomical versus round; implant volume ‐ variable versus fixed; brands ‐ different implant manufacturing companies and implant generation (fifth versus previous generations). 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed methodological quality and extracted data. We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures. The quality of the evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) system. 
Main results
Five RCTs with 202 participants met the inclusion criteria. The women participants were typically in their 50s, and the majority of them (about 82%) received reconstructive surgery following breast cancer, while the others had reconstructive surgery after prophylactic mastectomy. The studies were heterogenous in terms of implant comparisons, which prevented us from pooling the data. 
The studies were judged as being at an unclear risk of bias for most risk of bias items owing to poor quality of reporting in the trial publications. Three of the five RCTs were judged to be at high risk of attrition bias, and one at high risk of detection bias. 
