Background
Since the time of publication of the Women’s Health Initiative (WHI) study, menopausal symptom management has become more complex because of increased awareness of the risks associated with hormone replacement therapy (HRT). Currently, a wide range of management options is available. Some women take prescription drugs, and others use self care strategies, including lifestyle modifications, over‐the‐counter preparations and complementary and alternative therapies, such as herbal preparations, exercise programmes and relaxation techniques. Relaxation techniques consist of a group of behavioural interventions. They are considered relatively harmless, but their effectiveness in treating vasomotor symptoms and sleep disturbances remains debatable.  
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of relaxation techniques as treatment for vasomotor symptoms and associated sleep disturbances in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women. 
Search methods
Searches of the following electronic bibliographic databases were performed in February 2014 to identify randomised controlled trials (RCTs): the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Specialised Trials Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, AMED, PsycINFO, Social Science Citation Index and CINAHL. Handsearches of trial registers, relevant journals and published conference abstracts were also performed. 
Selection criteria
RCTs were included if they compared any type of relaxation intervention with no treatment or other treatments (except hormones) for vasomotor symptoms in symptomatic perimenopausal/postmenopausal women. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors selected studies, assessed quality and extracted data. Included studies were combined, if appropriate, by using a random‐effects model to calculate pooled mean differences and 95% confidence intervals. 
Main results
Four studies were eligible for inclusion (281 participants): Two studies compared relaxation with electroacupuncture or superficial needling, one study compared relaxation with paced respiration or placebo control (α‐wave electroencephalographic biofeedback) and one study compared relaxation with no treatment. 
