Background
Preterm infants are at risk of lung atelectasis due to various anatomical and physiological immaturities, placing them at high risk of respiratory failure and associated harms. Nasal continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) is a positive pressure applied to the airways via the nares. It helps prevent atelectasis and supports adequate gas exchange in spontaneously breathing infants. Nasal CPAP is used in the care of preterm infants around the world. Despite its common use, the appropriate pressure levels to apply during nasal CPAP use remain uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of 'low' (≤ 5 cm H2O) versus 'moderate‐high' (> 5 cm H2O) initial nasal CPAP pressure levels in preterm infants receiving CPAP either: 1) for initial respiratory support after birth and neonatal resuscitation or 2) following mechanical ventilation and endotracheal extubation. 
Search methods
We ran a comprehensive search on 6 November 2020 in the following databases: CENTRAL via CRS Web and MEDLINE via Ovid. We also searched clinical trials databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomized trials. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs, quasi‐RCTs, cluster‐RCTs and cross‐over RCTs randomizing preterm infants of gestational age < 37 weeks or birth weight < 2500 grams within the first 28 days of life to different nasal CPAP levels. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methods of Cochrane Neonatal to collect and analyze data. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of the evidence for the prespecified primary outcomes. 
Main results
Eleven trials met inclusion criteria of the review. Four trials were parallel‐group RCTs reporting our prespecified primary or secondary outcomes. Two trials randomized 316 infants to low versus moderate‐high nasal CPAP for initial respiratory support, and two trials randomized 117 infants to low versus moderate‐high nasal CPAP following endotracheal extubation. The remaining seven studies were cross‐over trials reporting short‐term physiological outcomes. The most common potential sources of bias were absent or unclear blinding of personnel and assessors and uncertain selective reporting. 
