Background
Anaemia affects about a quarter of the world's population. An estimated 50% of anaemic people have anaemia due to iron deficiency. 
Objectives
To assess the safety and efficacy of iron therapies for the treatment of adults with anaemia who are not pregnant or lactating and do not have chronic kidney disease. 
Search methods
We ran the search on 11 July 2013. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), PubMed, EMBASE (Ovid SP), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) Plus (EBSCO Host), the Institute for Scientific Information Web of Science (ISI WOS) Scientific Citation Index (SCI)‐EXPANDED (1970) and Conference Proceedings Citation Index (CPCI)‐Science (1990) and Clinicaltrials.gov; we also screened reference lists. An updated search was run on 24 November 2014 but the results have not yet been incorporated into the review. 
Selection criteria
Two review authors independently selected references for further assessment by going through all titles and abstracts. Further selection was based on review of full‐text articles for selected references. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted study data. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) with 95% confidence interval (CI) for binary outcomes and the mean difference (MD) or the standardised mean difference (SMD) with 95% CI for continuous outcomes. We performed meta‐analysis when possible, when I2 was less than or equal to 80% using a fixed‐effect or random‐effects model, using Review Manager software. The range of point estimates for individual studies is presented when I2 > 80%. 
Main results
We included in this systematic review 4745 participants who were randomly assigned in 21 trials. Trials were conducted in a wide variety of clinical settings. Most trials included participants with mild to moderate anaemia and excluded participants who were allergic to iron therapy. All trials were at high risk of bias for one or more domains. We compared both oral iron and parenteral iron versus inactive controls and compared different iron preparations. 
