Background
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a common, preventable, and treatable respiratory disease. COPD exacerbations are associated with worse quality of life, increased hospitalisations, and increased mortality. Currently available pharmacological interventions have variable impact on exacerbation frequency. The anti‐inflammatory effects of statins may lead to decreased pulmonary and systemic inflammation, resulting in fewer exacerbations of COPD. Several observational studies have shown potential benefits of statins for patients with COPD. 
Objectives
This review aims to evaluate available evidence on benefits and harms associated with statin therapy compared with placebo as adjunct therapy for patients with COPD. Primary objectives include the following. 
• To determine whether statins reduce mortality rates in COPD.
• To determine whether statins reduce exacerbation frequency, improve quality of life, or improve lung function in COPD. 
• To determine whether statins are associated with adverse effects.
Search methods
We identified trials from the Cochrane Airways Trials Register, which contains studies identified through multiple electronic searches and handsearches of other sources. We also searched trial registries and reference lists of primary studies. We conducted the most recent search on 20 May 2019. 
Selection criteria
Parallel, randomised controlled trials recruiting adults with COPD.
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methods as expected by Cochrane. Prespecified primary outcomes were number of exacerbations, all‐cause mortality, and COPD‐specific mortality. 
Main results
Eight studies including 1323 participants with COPD were included in the review. Participants had a mean age of 61.4 to 72 years, and most were male (median 73.4%). Mean baseline forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV₁) ranged from 41% to 90% predicted. All studies compared moderate‐ or high‐intensity statin therapy versus placebo. The duration of treatment ranged from 12 weeks to 36 months. 
We found no statistically significant difference between statins and placebo in our primary outcome of number of exacerbations per person‐year (mean difference (MD) ‐0.03, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.25 to 0.19, 1 trial, 877 participants), including number of exacerbations requiring hospitalisation per person‐year (MD 0.00, 95% CI ‐0.10 to 0.10, 1 trial, 877 exacerbations). This evidence was of moderate quality after downgrading for unclear risk of bias. Our primary outcomes of all‐cause mortality (odds ratio (OR) 1.03, 95% CI 0.61 to 1.74, 2 trials, 952 participants) and COPD‐specific mortality (OR 1.25, 95% CI 0.38 to 4.13, 1 trial, 877 participants) showed no significant difference between statins and placebo, with wide confidence intervals suggesting uncertainty about the precision of the results. This evidence was of low quality after downgrading for unclear risk of bias and imprecision. 
