Background
Although antidepressants are often a first‐line treatment for adults with moderate to severe depression, many people do not respond adequately to medication, and are said to have treatment‐resistant depression (TRD). Little evidence exists to inform the most appropriate 'next step' treatment for these people. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of standard pharmacological treatments for adults with TRD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders Controlled Trials Register (CCMDCTR) (March 2016), CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and Web of Science (31 December 2018), the World Health Organization trials portal and ClinicalTrials.gov for unpublished and ongoing studies, and screened bibliographies of included studies and relevant systematic reviews without date or language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with participants aged 18 to 74 years with unipolar depression (based on criteria from DSM‐IV‐TR or earlier versions, International Classification of Diseases (ICD)‐10, Feighner criteria or Research Diagnostic Criteria) who had not responded to a minimum of four weeks of antidepressant treatment at a recommended dose. Interventions were: 
(1) increasing the dose of antidepressant monotherapy;
(2) switching to a different antidepressant monotherapy;
(3) augmenting treatment with another antidepressant;
(4) augmenting treatment with a non‐antidepressant.
All were compared with continuing antidepressant monotherapy. We excluded studies of non‐standard pharmacological treatments (e.g. sex hormones, vitamins, herbal medicines and food supplements). 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers used standard Cochrane methods to extract data, assess risk of bias, and resolve disagreements. We analysed continuous outcomes with mean difference (MD) or standardised mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence interval (CI). For dichotomous outcomes, we calculated a relative risk (RR) and 95% CI. Where sufficient data existed, we conducted meta‐analyses using random‐effects models. 
