Background
People with multiple sclerosis (MS) have complex symptoms and different types of needs. These demands include how to manage the burden of physical disability as well as how to organise daily life, restructure social roles in the family and at work, preserve personal identity and community roles, keep self‐sufficiency in personal care, and how to be part of an integrated care network. Palliative care teams are trained to keep open full and competent lines of communication about symptoms and disease progression, advanced care planning, and end‐of‐life issues and wishes. Teams create a treatment plan for the total management of symptoms, supporting people and families on decision‐making. Despite advances in research and the existence of many interventions to reduce disease activity or to slow the progression of MS, this condition remains a life‐limiting disease with symptoms that impact negatively the lives of people with it and their families. 
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of palliative care interventions compared to usual care for people with any form of multiple sclerosis: relapsing‐remitting MS (RRMS), secondary‐progressive MS (SPMS), primary‐progressive MS (PPMS), and progressive‐relapsing MS (PRMS) We also aimed to compare the effects of different palliative care interventions. 
Search methods
On 31 October 2018, we conducted a literature search in the specialised register of the Cochrane MS and Rare Diseases of the Central Nervous System Review Group, which contains trials from CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, LILACS, Clinical trials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We also searched PsycINFO, PEDro and Opengrey. We also handsearched relevant journals and screened the reference lists of published reviews. We contacted researchers in palliative care and multiple sclerosis. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and cluster randomised trials were eligible for inclusion, as well as the first phase of cross‐over trials. We included studies that compared palliative care interventions versus usual care. We also included studies that compared palliative care interventions versus another type of palliative interventions. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures. We summarised key results and certainty of evidence in a 'Summary of Finding' table that reported outcomes at six or more months of post‐intervention. 
Main results
Three studies (146 participants) met our selection criteria. Two studies compared multidisciplinary, fast‐track palliative care versus multidisciplinary standard care while on a waiting‐list control, and one study compared a multidisciplinary palliative approach versus multidisciplinary standard care at different time points (12, 16, and 24 weeks). Two were RCTs with parallel design (total 94 participants) and one was a cross‐over design (52 participants). The three studies assessed palliative care as a home‐based intervention. One of the three studies included participants with 'neurodegenerative diseases', with MS people being a subset of the randomised population. We assessed the risk of bias of included studies using Cochrane's 'Risk of Bias' tool. 
We found no evidence of differences between intervention and control groups in long‐time follow‐up (> six months post‐intervention) for the following outcomes: mean change in health‐related quality of life (SEIQoL ‐ higher scores mean better quality of life; MD 4.80, 95% CI ‐12.32 to 21.92; participants = 62; studies = 1; very low‐certainty evidence), serious adverse events (RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.44 to 2.12; participants = 76; studies = 1, 22 events, low‐certainty evidence) and hospital admission (RR 0.78, 95% CI 0.24 to 2.52; participants = 76; studies = 1, 10 events, low‐certainty evidence). 
