Background
Beta‐blockers refer to a mixed group of drugs with diverse pharmacodynamic and pharmacokinetic properties. They have shown long‐term beneficial effects on mortality and cardiovascular disease (CVD) when used in people with heart failure or acute myocardial infarction. Beta‐blockers were thought to have similar beneficial effects when used as first‐line therapy for hypertension. However, the benefit of beta‐blockers as first‐line therapy for hypertension without compelling indications is controversial. This review is an update of a Cochrane Review initially published in 2007 and updated in 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of beta‐blockers on morbidity and mortality endpoints in adults with hypertension. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomized controlled trials up to June 2016: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (2016, Issue 6), MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), and ClinicalTrials.gov. We checked reference lists of relevant reviews, and reference lists of studies potentially eligible for inclusion in this review, and also searched the the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform on 06 July 2015. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of at least one year of duration, which assessed the effects of beta‐blockers compared to placebo or other drugs, as first‐line therapy for hypertension, on mortality and morbidity in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
We selected studies and extracted data in duplicate, resolving discrepancies by consensus. We expressed study results as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and conducted fixed‐effect or random‐effects meta‐analyses, as appropriate. We also used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence. GRADE classifies the certainty of evidence as high (if we are confident that the true effect lies close to that of the estimate of effect), moderate (if the true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of effect), low (if the true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of effect), and very low (if we are very uncertain about the estimate of effect). 
Main results
Thirteen RCTs met inclusion criteria. They compared beta‐blockers to placebo (4 RCTs, 23,613 participants), diuretics (5 RCTs, 18,241 participants), calcium‐channel blockers (CCBs: 4 RCTs, 44,825 participants), and renin‐angiotensin system (RAS) inhibitors (3 RCTs, 10,828 participants). These RCTs were conducted between the 1970s and 2000s and most of them had a high risk of bias resulting from limitations in study design, conduct, and data analysis. There were 40,245 participants taking beta‐blockers, three‐quarters of them taking atenolol. We found no outcome trials involving the newer vasodilating beta‐blockers (e.g. nebivolol). 
