Background
Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) is a chronic, relapsing disease of the gastrointestinal tract that is thought to be associated with a complex interplay between microbes and the immune system, leading to an abnormal inflammatory response in genetically susceptible individuals. Dysbiosis, characterized by the alteration of the composition of the resident commensal bacteria in a host compared to healthy individuals, is thought to play a major role in the pathogenesis of ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD), two subtypes of IBD. There is growing interest to correct the underlying dysbiosis through the use of fecal microbiota transplantation (FMT) for the treatment of IBD. 
Objectives
The objective of this systematic review was to assess the efficacy and safety of FMT for the treatment of IBD. 
Search methods
We searched the MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Library, and Cochrane IBD Group Specialized Register databases from inception to 19 March 2018. We also searched ClinicalTrials.gov, ISRCTN metaRegister of Controlled Trials, and the Conference Proceedings Citation Index. 
Selection criteria
Only randomized trials or non‐randomized studies with a control arm were considered for inclusion. Adults or pediatric participants with UC or CD were eligible for inclusion. Eligible interventions were FMT defined as the administration of fecal material containing distal gut microbiota from a healthy donor to the gastrointestinal tract of a someone with UC or CD. The comparison group included participants who did not receive FMT and were given placebo, autologous FMT, or no intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened the titles and extracted data from the included studies. We used the Cochrane risk of bias tool to assess study bias. The primary outcomes were induction of clinical remission, clinical relapse, and serious adverse events. Secondary outcomes included clinical response, endoscopic remission and endoscopic response, quality of life scores, laboratory measures of inflammation, withdrawals, and microbiome outcomes. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) and corresponding 95% confidence interval (95% CI) for dichotomous outcomes and the mean difference and 95% CI for continuous outcomes. Random‐effects meta‐analysis models were used to synthesize effect sizes across trials. The overall certainty of the evidence supporting the primary and selected secondary outcomes was rated using the GRADE criteria. 
