Background
High efficacy in terms of protection from severe COVID‐19 has been demonstrated for several SARS‐CoV‐2 vaccines. However, patients with compromised immune status develop a weaker and less stable immune response to vaccination. Strong immune response may not always translate into clinical benefit, therefore it is important to synthesise evidence on modified schemes and types of vaccination in these population subgroups for guiding health decisions. As the literature on COVID‐19 vaccines continues to expand, we aimed to scope the literature on multiple subgroups to subsequently decide on the most relevant research questions to be answered by systematic reviews. 
Objectives
To provide an overview of the availability of existing literature on immune response and long‐term clinical outcomes after COVID‐19 vaccination, and to map this evidence according to the examined populations, specific vaccines, immunity parameters, and their way of determining relevant long‐term outcomes and the availability of mapping between immune reactivity and relevant outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register, the Web of Science Core Collection, and the World Health Organization COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease on 6 December 2021.  
Selection criteria
We included studies that published results on immunity outcomes after vaccination with BNT162b2, mRNA‐1273, AZD1222, Ad26.COV2.S, Sputnik V or Sputnik Light, BBIBP‐CorV, or CoronaVac on predefined vulnerable subgroups such as people with malignancies, transplant recipients, people undergoing renal replacement therapy, and people with immune disorders, as well as pregnant and breastfeeding women, and children. We included studies if they had at least 100 participants (not considering healthy control groups); we excluded case studies and case series. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data independently and in duplicate onto an online data extraction form. Data were represented as tables and as online maps to show the frequency of studies for each item. We mapped the data according to study design, country of participant origin, patient comorbidity subgroup, intervention, outcome domains (clinical, safety, immunogenicity), and outcomes.  
Main results
Out of 25,452 identified records, 318 studies with a total of more than 5 million participants met our eligibility criteria and were included in the review. Participants were recruited mainly from high‐income countries between January 2020 and 31 October 2021 (282/318); the majority of studies included adult participants (297/318).  
Haematological malignancies were the most commonly examined comorbidity group (N = 54), followed by solid tumours (N = 47), dialysis (N = 48), kidney transplant (N = 43), and rheumatic diseases (N = 28, 17, and 15 for mixed diseases, multiple sclerosis, and inflammatory bowel disease, respectively). Thirty‐one studies included pregnant or breastfeeding women. 
The most commonly administered vaccine was BNT162b2 (N = 283), followed by mRNA‐1273 (N = 153), AZD1222 (N = 66), Ad26.COV2.S (N = 42), BBIBP‐CorV (N = 15), CoronaVac (N = 14), and Sputnik V (N = 5; no studies were identified for Sputnik Light). Most studies reported outcomes after regular vaccination scheme.  
