Background
Vilanterol (VI) is a long‐acting beta2‐agonist (LABA) that binds to the beta2‐adrenoceptor on the airway smooth muscle, producing bronchodilation. LABA therapy, which is well established in adults as part of the British Thoracic Society (BTS) Guidelines for the Management of Asthma, leads to improvement in symptoms and lung function and reduction in exacerbations. At present, the commonly used LABAs licensed for use in asthma management (formoterol and salmeterol) require twice‐daily administration, whereas VI is a once‐daily therapy. 
Fluticasone furoate (FF) is an inhaled corticosteroid (ICS), and ICS therapy is recommended by the BTS asthma guidelines. ICSs, the mainstay of asthma treatment, lead to a reduction in both airway inflammation and airway hyper‐responsiveness. Regular use leads to improvement in symptoms and lung function. ICSs are currently recommended as 'preventer' therapy for patients who use a 'reliever' medication (e.g. short‐acting beta2 agonist (SABA), salbutamol) three or more times per week. Most of the commonly used ICS treatments are twice‐daily medications, although two once‐daily products are currently licensed (ciclesonide and mometasone). 
At the present time, only one once‐daily ICS/LABA combination (FF/VI) is available, and several other combination inhalers are recommended for twice‐daily administration. 
Objectives
To compare effects of VI and FF in combination versus placebo, or versus other ICSs and/or LABAs, on acute exacerbations and on health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) in adults and children with chronic asthma. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Register of trials, clinical trial registries, manufacturers' websites and reference lists of included studies up to June 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of adults and children with a diagnosis of asthma. Included studies compared VI and FF combined versus placebo, or versus other ICSs and/or LABAs. Our primary outcomes were health‐related quality of life, severe asthma exacerbation, as defined by hospital admissions or treatment with a course of oral corticosteroids, and serious adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and analysed outcomes using a fixed‐effect model. We used standard Cochrane methods. 
Main results
We identified 14 studies that met our inclusion criteria, with a total of 6641 randomised participants, of whom 5638 completed the study. All studies lasted between two and 78 weeks and showed good methodological quality overall. 
We included 10 comparisons in this review, seven for which the dose of VI and FF was 100/25 mcg (VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs placebo; VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs same dose of FF; VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs same dose of VI; VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs fluticasone propionate (FP) 500 mcg twice‐daily; VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs fluticasone propionate/salmeterol (FP/SAL) 250/50 mcg twice‐daily; VI/FF 100/25 mcg vs FP/SAL 250/25 mcg twice‐daily; FF/VI 100/25 vs FP/SAL500/50) and three for which the dose of VI and FF was 200/25 mcg (VI/FF 200/25 mcg vs placebo; VI/FF 200/25 mcg vs FP 500 mcg; VI/FF 200/25 mcg vs same dose of FF). 
We found very few opportunities to combine results from the 14 included studies in meta‐analyses. We tabulated the data for our pre‐specified primary outcomes. In particular, we found insufficient information to assess whether once‐daily VI/FF was better or worse than twice‐daily FP/SAL in terms of efficacy or safety. 
