Background
Periampullary cancer includes cancer of the head and neck of the pancreas, cancer of the distal end of the bile duct, cancer of the ampulla of Vater, and cancer of the second part of the duodenum. Surgical resection is the only established potentially curative treatment for pancreatic and periampullary cancer. A considerable proportion of patients undergo unnecessary laparotomy because of underestimation of the extent of the cancer on computed tomography (CT) scanning. Other imaging methods such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), positron emission tomography (PET), PET‐CT, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) have been used to detect local invasion or distant metastases not visualised on CT scanning which could prevent unnecessary laparotomy. No systematic review or meta‐analysis has examined the role of different imaging modalities in assessing the resectability with curative intent in patients with pancreatic and periampullary cancer. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of MRI, PET scan, and EUS performed as an add‐on test or PET‐CT as a replacement test to CT scanning in detecting curative resectability in pancreatic and periampullary cancer. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded, and Health Technology Assessment (HTA) databases up to 5 November 2015. Two review authors independently screened the references and selected the studies for inclusion. We also searched for articles related to the included studies by performing the "related search" function in MEDLINE (OvidSP) and Embase (OvidSP) and a "citing reference" search (by searching the articles that cite the included articles). 
Selection criteria
We included diagnostic accuracy studies of MRI, PET scan, PET‐CT, and EUS in patients with potentially resectable pancreatic and periampullary cancer on CT scan. We accepted any criteria of resectability used in the studies. We included studies irrespective of language, publication status, or study design (prospective or retrospective). We excluded case‐control studies. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed data extraction and quality assessment using the QUADAS‐2 (quality assessment of diagnostic accuracy studies ‐ 2) tool. Although we planned to use bivariate methods for analysis of sensitivities and specificities, we were able to fit only the univariate fixed‐effect models for both sensitivity and specificity because of the paucity of data. We calculated the probability of unresectability in patients who had a positive index test (post‐test probability of unresectability in people with a positive test result) and in those with negative index test (post‐test probability of unresectability in people with a positive test result) using the mean probability of unresectability (pre‐test probability) from the included studies and the positive and negative likelihood ratios derived from the model. The difference between the pre‐test and post‐test probabilities gave the overall added value of the index test compared to the standard practice of CT scan staging alone. 
