Background
This is an update of the review originally published in 2011 and first updated in 2015. 
In most people with low‐grade gliomas (LGG), the primary treatment regimen remains a combination of surgery followed by postoperative radiotherapy. However, the optimal timing of radiotherapy is controversial. It is unclear whether to use radiotherapy in the early postoperative period, or whether radiotherapy should be delayed until tumour progression occurs. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of early postoperative radiotherapy versus radiotherapy delayed until tumour progression for low‐grade intracranial gliomas in people who had initial biopsy or surgical resection. 
Search methods
Original searches were run up to September 2014. An updated literature search from September 2014 through November 2019 was performed on the following electronic databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 11), MEDLINE via Ovid (September 2014 to November week 2 2019), and Embase via Ovid (September 2014 to 2019 week 46) to identify trials for inclusion in this Cochrane review update. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared early versus delayed radiotherapy following biopsy or surgical resection for the treatment of people with newly diagnosed intracranial LGG (astrocytoma, oligodendroglioma, mixed oligoastrocytoma, astroblastoma, xanthoastrocytoma, or ganglioglioma). Radiotherapy may include conformal external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) with linear accelerator or cobalt‐60 sources, intensity‐modulated radiotherapy (IMRT), or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS). 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently assessed the trials for inclusion and risk of bias, and extracted study data. We resolved any differences between review authors by discussion. Adverse effects were also extracted from the study report. We performed meta‐analyses using a random‐effects model with inverse variance weighting. 
