Background
Most women undergoing assisted reproduction treatment will reach the stage of embryo transfer (ET), but the proportion of embryos that can be successfully implanted after ET has remained small since the mid‐1990s. Human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG) is a hormone that is synthesised and released by the syncytiotrophoblast and has a fundamental role in embryo implantation and the early stages of pregnancy. Intrauterine administration of hCG via ET catheter during a mock procedure around the time of ET is a novel approach that has been suggested to improve the outcomes of assisted reproduction. 
Objectives
To investigate whether intrauterine (intracavity) administration of hCG (IC‐hCG) around the time of ET improves clinical outcomes in subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction. 
Search methods
We performed searches on 9 January 2018 using Cochrane methods.
Selection criteria
We looked for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating IC‐hCG around the time of ET, irrespective of language and country of origin. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies, assessed risk of bias, extracted data from studies, and attempted to contact study authors when data were missing. We performed statistical analysis using Review Manager 5. We assessed evidence quality using GRADE methods. Primary outcomes were live birth and miscarriage; secondary outcomes were clinical pregnancy rate and complications. 
Main results
Seventeen RCTs investigated the effects of IC‐hCG administration for 4751 subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction. IC‐hCG was administered in variable doses at different times before the ET. hCG was obtained from the urine of pregnant women or from cell cultures using recombinant DNA technology. 
Most studies (12/17) were at high risk of bias in at least one of the seven domains assessed. Common problems were unclear reporting of study methods and lack of blinding. The main limitations for evidence quality were high risk of bias and serious imprecision. 
For analyses of live birth and clinical pregnancy, there was considerable heterogeneity (I² > 75%) and therefore we present subgroups for dosage and stage of ET. Exploration for sources of heterogeneity revealed two key prespecified variables as important determinants: stage of ET (cleavage vs blastocyst stage) and dose of IC‐hCG (< 500 international units (IU) vs ≥ 500 IU). We performed meta‐analyses within subgroups defined by stage of embryo and dose of IC‐hCG. 
Live birth rates among women having cleavage‐stage ET with an IC‐hCG dose < 500 IU compared to women having cleavage‐stage ET without IC‐hCG showed no benefit of the intervention and would be consistent with no substantive difference or disadvantage of indeterminate magnitude (risk ratio (RR) 0.76, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.58 to 1.01; one RCT; 280 participants; I² = 0%; very low‐quality evidence). In a clinic with a live birth rate of 49% per cycle, use of IC‐hCG < 500 IU would be associated with a live birth rate ranging from 28% to 50%. 
Results show an increase in live birth rate in the subgroup of women undergoing cleavage‐stage ET with an IC‐hCG dose ≥ 500 IU compared to women having cleavage‐stage ET without IC‐hCG (RR 1.57, 95% CI 1.32 to 1.87; three RCTs; 914 participants; I² = 0%; moderate‐quality evidence). At a clinic with a live birth rate of 27% per cycle, use of IC‐hCG ≥ 500 IU would be associated with a live birth rate ranging from 36% to 51%. 
Results show no substantive differences in live birth among women having blastocyst‐stage ET with an IC‐hCG dose ≥ 500 IU compared to women having blastocyst‐stage ET without IC‐hCG (RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.80 to 1.04; two RCTs; 1666 participants; I² = 0%; moderate‐quality evidence). At a clinic with a live birth rate of 36% per cycle, use of IC‐hCG ≥ 500 IU would be associated with a live birth rate ranging from 29% to 38%. 
Evidence for clinical pregnancy among women having cleavage‐stage ET with an IC‐hCG dose < 500 IU showed no benefit of the intervention and would be consistent with no substantive difference or disadvantage of indeterminate magnitude (RR 0.88, 95% CI 0.70 to 1.10; one RCT; 280 participants; I² = 0%; very low‐quality evidence). 
