Background
Accelerating the rate of tooth movement may help to reduce the duration of orthodontic treatment and associated unwanted effects including root resorption and enamel demineralisation. Several methods, including surgical and non‐surgical adjuncts, have been advocated to accelerate the rate of tooth movement. Non‐surgical techniques include low‐intensity laser irradiation, resonance vibration, pulsed electromagnetic fields, electrical currents and pharmacological approaches. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of non‐surgical adjunctive interventions on the rate of orthodontic tooth movement and the overall duration of treatment. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases on 25 November 2014: the Cochrane Oral Health Group's Trials Register (November 2014), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; The Cochrane Library 2014, Issue 10), MEDLINE via OVID (1946 to November 2014), EMBASE via OVID (1980 to November 2014), LILACS via BIREME (1980 to November 2014), metaRegister of Controlled Trials (November 2014), the US National Institutes of Health Trials Register (ClinicalTrials.gov; November 2014) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (November 2014). We checked the reference lists of all trials identified for further studies. There were no restrictions regarding language or date of publication in the searches of the electronic databases. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of people receiving orthodontic treatment using fixed appliances along with non‐surgical adjunctive interventions to accelerate tooth movement. We excluded non‐parallel design studies (for example, split‐mouth) as we regarded them as inappropriate for assessment of the effects of this type of intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors were responsible for study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction; they carried out these tasks independently. Any disagreements were resolved by discussion amongst the review team to reach consensus. The review authors contacted the corresponding authors of trials to obtain missing information and data to allow calculation of mean differences (MD), 95% confidence intervals (CI) or risk ratios (RR) when these were not reported. 
