Background
Mucopolysaccharidosis type VI (MPS VI) or Maroteaux‐Lamy syndrome is a rare genetic disorder caused by the deficiency of arylsulphatase B. The resultant accumulation of dermatan sulphate causes lysosomal damage. 
The clinical symptoms are related to skeletal dysplasia (i.e. short stature and degenerative joint disease). Other manifestations include cardiac disease, impaired pulmonary function, ophthalmological complications, hepatosplenomegaly, sinusitis, otitis, hearing loss and sleep apnea. Intellectual impairment is generally absent. Clinical manifestation is typically by two or three years of age; however, slowly progressive cases may not present until adulthood. 
Enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) with galsulfase is considered a new approach for treating MPS VI. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of treating MPS VI by ERT with galsulfase compared to other interventions, placebo or no intervention. 
Search methods
Eletronic searches were performed on the Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Inborn Errors of Metabolism Trials Register. Date of the latest search:  09 June 2021. 
Further searches of the following databases were also performed: CENTRAL, MEDLINE, LILACS, the Journal of Inherited Metabolic Disease, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov. Date of the latest search: 20 August 2021. 
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized controlled clinical studies of ERT with galsulfase compared to other interventions or placebo. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened the studies, assessed the risk of bias, extracted data and assessed the certainty of the the evidence using the GRADE criteria. 
Main results
One study was included involving 39 participants who received either ERT with galsulfase (recombinant human arylsulphatase B) or placebo. This small study was considered overall to have an unclear risk of bias in relation to the design and implementation of the study, since the authors did not report how both the allocation generation and concealment were performed. 
Given the very low certainty of the evidence, we are uncertain whether at 24 weeks there was a difference between groups in relation to the 12‐minute walk test, mean difference (MD) of 92.00 meters (95% confidence interval (CI) 11.00 to 172.00), or the three‐minute stair climb, MD 5.70 (95% CI ‐0.10 to 11.50). 
In relation to respiratory tests, we are uncertain whether galsulfase makes any difference as compared to placebo in forced vital capacity in litres (FVC (L) (absolute change in baseline), given the very low certainty of the evidence. Cardiac function was not reported in the included study. We found that galsulfase, as compared to placebo, may decrease urinary glycosaminoglycan levels at 24 weeks, MD ‐227.00 (95% CI ‐264.00 to ‐190.00) (low‐certainty evidence). 
We are uncertain whether there are differences between the galsulfase and placebo groups in relation to adverse events (very low‐certainty evidence).  In general, the dose of galsulfase was well tolerated and there were no differences between groups. These events include drug‐related adverse events, serious and severe adverse events, those during infusion, drug‐related adverse events during infusion, and deaths. More infusion‐related reactions were observed in the galsulfase group and were managed with interruption or slowing of infusion rate or administration of antihistamines or corticosteroids drugs. No deaths occurred during the study.  
Authors' conclusions
The results of this review are based only on one small study (a 24‐week randomised phase of the study and prior to the open‐label extension). We are uncertain whether galsulfase is more effective than placebo, for treating people with MPS VI, in relation to the 12‐minute walk test or the three‐minute stair climb, as the certainty of the evidence has been assessed as very low. We found that galsulfase may reduce urinary glycosaminoglycans levels. We are also uncertain whether there are any differences between treatment groups in relation to cardiac or pulmonary functions, liver or spleen volume, overnight apnea‐hypopnea, height and weight, quality of life and adverse effects. 
