Background
5‐Aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA) is a first‐line therapy for inducing and maintaining remission of mild and moderately active ulcerative colitis (UC). When the proximal margin of inflammation is distal to the splenic flexure, 5‐ASA therapy can be delivered as a rectal suppository, foam or liquid enema. 
Objectives
The primary objective was to assess the efficacy and safety of rectal 5‐ASA for maintaining remission of distal UC. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE (1966 to August 2012), the Cochrane Library (August 2012), abstracts from major gastroenterology meetings (1997‐2011) and bibliographies of relevant publications to identify relevant studies. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies were randomized controlled trials comparing rectal 5‐ASA to placebo or another active treatment for a minimum duration of six months. Symptom scores needed to be assessed in at least one study outcome. Patients had to be at least 12 years of age with disease extent less than 60 cm from the anal verge or distal to the splenic flexure, as determined by barium enema, colonoscopy or sigmoidoscopy. Patients were expected to be in remission prior to the treatment trial. 
Data collection and analysis
Study eligibility was independently assessed by three authors. Data were extracted using standardized forms by two independent reviewers, with inter‐rater agreement assessed using Cohen's Kappa and disagreements resolved by consensus. In cases where clarification of study results or methodology was needed, corresponding authors were contacted. The methodological quality of each trial was assessed by the Cochrane risk of bias tool and by a 30‐point scale developed and used previously by the authors. Pooled risk ratios (RR) and corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CI) for continued clinical, endoscopic and histologic remission were estimated for comparisons between rectal 5‐ASA and placebo or oral 5‐ASA, and for comparisons among 5‐ASA doses. Heterogeneity was assessed using the Chi2 test and visual inspection of forest plots. If no significant heterogeneity was identified (P > 0.10 for Chi2) a fixed‐effect model (Mantel‐Haenstzel) was used. If heterogeneity was significant, a random‐effects model was used. 
