Background
The relative efficacy of fluticasone (FP) and beclomethasone (BDP) propelled with CFCs has been well established. The potency of HFA‐BDP is thought to have been improved with new propellant and some studies suggest that extra‐fine HFA‐BDP may be equipotent at half the dose of CFC propelled‐BDP. 
Objectives
To determine the relative efficacy of FP and HFA‐propelled extrafine BDP in chronic asthma. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register was searched using pre‐specified terms. Searches were current as of January 2010. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials were eligible for inclusion in the review. We compared either CFC or HFA‐propelled FP with HFA‐propelled extrafine BDP. We made a distinction between HFA‐BDP and HFA‐BDP extrafine, which dispenses smaller particles of drug, leading to different, usually more peripheral distribution in the airways. Any inhaler device was considered, and there was no restriction on studies with or without spacers. We included studies which assessed HFA‐BDP given via either pMDI, breath‐actuated MDI, or DPI. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion in the review. Data were extracted and entered in to RevMan 5 using standard meta‐analytical techniques with predefined criteria for exploring statistical heterogeneity. 
Main results
Nine studies (1265 participants) met the inclusion criteria of the review. Two studies were conducted in children. Study reporting quality was fair, but all studies were of short duration (three to twelve weeks). Lung function was not significantly different between extrafine BDP and FP when compared at the same dose in parallel studies, change in FEV1: 0.04 litres (95% CI ‐0.03 to 0.11 litres; three studies, 659 adults); change in FEV1 predicted: ‐2.18% (95% CI ‐4.62 to 0.26; three studies, 334 adults); change in am PEF: ‐0.69 litres (95% CI ‐11.21 to 9.83 litres; two studies, 364 adults). Individual studies reported non‐significant findings in symptom scores and quality of life questionnaires. There was no significant difference between FP and extrafine HFA‐BDP in the risk of study withdrawal, dysphonia or when data were reported as any adverse event. 
