Background
Proximal dental lesions, limited to dentine, are traditionally treated by invasive (drill and fill) means. Non‐invasive alternatives (e.g. fluoride varnish, flossing) might avoid substance loss but their effectiveness depends on patients' adherence. Recently, micro‐invasive approaches for treating proximal caries lesions have been tried. These interventions install a barrier either on top (sealing) or within (infiltrating) the lesion. Different methods and materials are currently available for micro‐invasive treatments, such as sealing via resin sealants, (polyurethane) patches/tapes, glass ionomer cements (GIC) or resin infiltration. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of micro‐invasive treatments for managing proximal caries lesions in primary and permanent dentition in children and adults. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases to 31 December 2014: the Cochrane Oral Health Group Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE via OVID, EMBASE via OVID, LILACs via BIREME Virtual Health Library, Web of Science Conference Proceedings, ZETOC Conference Proceedings, Proquest Dissertations and Theses, ClinicalTrials.gov, OpenGrey and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We searched the metaRegister of Controlled Trials to 1 October 2014. There were no language or date restrictions in the searches of the electronic databases. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials of at least six months' duration that compared micro‐invasive treatments for managing non‐cavitated proximal dental decay in primary teeth, permanent teeth or both, versus non‐invasive measures, invasive means, no intervention or placebo. We also included studies that compared different types of micro‐invasive treatments. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened search results, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias. We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane to evaluate risk of bias and synthesise data. We conducted meta‐analyses with the random‐effects model, using the Becker‐Balagtas method to calculate the odds ratio (OR) for lesion progression. We assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE methods. 
