Background
Surfactant therapy is effective in improving the outcome of very preterm infants. Trials have studied a wide variety of surfactant preparations used either to prevent or treat respiratory distress syndrome (RDS). In animal models, prophylactic surfactant leads to more homogeneous distribution and less evidence of lung damage. However, administration requires intubation and treatment of infants who will not go on to develop RDS. This is of particular concern with the advent of improved approaches to providing continuous distending pressure, particularly in the form of nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP). 
Objectives
To compare the effect of prophylactic surfactant administration with surfactant treatment of established RDS in very preterm infants at risk of RDS. 
Search methods
We updated the search of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and clinical trials.gov register in December 13, 2011. 
Selection criteria
Randomized and quasi‐randomized controlled trials that compared the effects of prophylactic surfactant administration with surfactant treatment of established RDS in preterm infants at risk of RDS. 
Data collection and analysis
Data regarding clinical outcomes were extracted from the reports of the clinical trials by the review authors. Data analysis was done in accordance with the standards of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group. 
Main results
We identified 11 studies that met inclusion criteria (nine without routine application of continuous positive air way pressure (CPAP) in the selective treatment group; two with routine application of CPAP in the selective treatment group). 
The meta‐analysis of studies conducted prior to the routine application of CPAP demonstrated a decrease in the risk of air leak and neonatal mortality associated with prophylactic administration of surfactant. However, the analyses of studies that allowed for routine stabilization on CPAP demonstrated a decrease in the risk of chronic lung disease or death in infants stabilized on CPAP. When all studies were evaluated together, the benefits of prophylactic surfactant could no longer be demonstrated. 
