Background
The management of pressure ulcers involves several interventions ranging from pressure‐relieving measures such as repositioning, to treatments that can include reconstructive surgery. Such surgery may be considered for recalcitrant wounds when full thickness skin loss arises and deeper structures such as muscle fascia and even bone are exposed. The surgery commonly involves wound debridement followed by the addition of new tissue into the wound. Whilst reconstructive surgery is an accepted means of ulcer management, the benefits and harms of surgery compared with non‐surgical treatments, or alternative surgical approaches are not clear. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of reconstructive surgery for healing pressure ulcers (stage II or above), comparing surgery with no surgery or comparing alternative forms of surgery in any care setting. 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases to identify reports of relevant randomised clinical trials (searched 26 September 2016): the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and CINAHL. We also searched three clinical trials registers and reference lists of relevant systematic reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology assessment reports. 
Selection criteria
Published or unpublished randomised controlled trials that assessed reconstructive surgery in the treatment of pressure ulcers. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection. We planned that two review authors would also assess the risk of bias and extract study data. 
Main results
We did not identify any studies that met the review eligibility criteria nor any registered studies investigating the role of reconstructive surgery in the management of pressure ulcers. 
Authors' conclusions
Currently there is no randomised evidence that supports or refutes the role of reconstructive surgery in pressure ulcer management. This is a priority area and there is a need to explore this intervention with more rigorous and robust research. 
