Background
The optimal rhythm management strategy for people with non‐paroxysmal (persistent or long‐standing persistent) atrial fibrilation is currently not well defined. Antiarrhythmic drugs have been the mainstay of therapy. But recently, in people who have not responded to antiarrhythmic drugs, the use of ablation (catheter and surgical) has emerged as an alternative to maintain sinus rhythm to avoid long‐term atrial fibrillation complications. However, evidence from randomised trials about the efficacy and safety of ablation in non‐paroxysmal atrial fibrillation is limited. 
Objectives
To determine the efficacy and safety of ablation (catheter and surgical) in people with non‐paroxysmal (persistent or long‐standing persistent) atrial fibrillation compared to antiarrhythmic drugs. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE Ovid, Embase Ovid, conference abstracts, clinical trial registries, and Health Technology Assessment Database. We searched these databases from their inception to 1 April 2016. We used no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised trials evaluating the effect of radiofrequency catheter ablation (RFCA) or surgical ablation compared with antiarrhythmic drugs in adults with non‐paroxysmal atrial fibrillation, regardless of any concomitant underlying heart disease, with at least 12 months of follow‐up. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies and extracted data. We evaluated risk of bias using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. We calculated risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous data with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) a using fixed‐effect model when heterogeneity was low (I² <= 40%) and a random‐effects model when heterogeneity was moderate or substantial (I² > 40%). Using the GRADE approach, we evaluated the quality of the evidence and used the GRADE profiler (GRADEpro) to import data from Review Manager 5 to create 'Summary of findings' tables. 
