Background
Arthritis of the knee is a common problem causing pain and disability. If severe, knee arthritis can be surgically managed with a total knee arthroplasty. Rehabilitation following knee arthroplasty often includes continuous passive motion (CPM). CPM is applied by a machine that passively and repeatedly moves the knee through a specified range of motion (ROM). It is believed that CPM increases recovery of knee ROM and has other therapeutic benefits. However, it is not clear whether CPM is effective. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of CPM and standard postoperative care versus similar postoperative care, with or without additional knee exercises, in people with knee arthroplasty. This review is an update of a 2003 and 2010 version of the same review. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 12), MEDLINE (January 1966 to 24 January 2013), EMBASE (January 1980 to 24 January 2013), CINAHL (January 1982 to 24 January 2013), AMED (January 1985 to 24 January 2013) and PEDro (to 24 January 2013). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials in which the experimental group received CPM, and both the experimental and control groups received similar postoperative care and therapy following total knee arthroplasty in people with arthritis. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. The primary outcomes of interest were active knee flexion ROM, pain, quality of life, function, participants' global assessment of treatment effectiveness, incidence of manipulation under anaesthesia and adverse events. The secondary outcomes were passive knee flexion ROM, active knee extension ROM, passive knee extension ROM, length of hospital stay, swelling and quadriceps strength. We estimated effects for continuous data as mean differences or standardised mean differences (SMD), and effects for dichotomous data as risk ratios; all with 95% confidence intervals (CI). If appropriate, we performed meta‐analyses using random‐effects models. 
Main results
We identified 684 papers from the electronic searches after removal of duplicates and retrieved the full reports of 62 potentially eligible trials. Twenty‐four randomised controlled trials of 1445 participants met the inclusion criteria; four of these trials were new to this update. 
There was moderate‐quality evidence to indicate that CPM does not have clinically important short‐term effects on active knee flexion ROM: mean knee flexion was 78 degrees in the control group, CPM increased active knee flexion ROM by 2 degrees (95% CI 0 to 5) or absolute improvement of 2% (95% CI 0% to 4%). The medium‐ and long‐term effects are similar although the quality of evidence is lower. 
There was low‐quality evidence to indicate that CPM does not have clinically important short‐term effects on pain: mean pain was 3 points in the control group, CPM reduced pain by 0.4 points on a 10‐point scale (95% CI ‐0.8 to 0.1) or absolute reduction of ‐4% (95% CI ‐8% to 1%). 
