Background
Vulval cancer is usually treated by wide local excision with removal of groin lymph nodes (inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy) from one or both sides, depending on the tumour location. However, this procedure is associated with significant morbidity. As lymph node metastasis occurs in about 30% of women with early vulval cancer, accurate prediction of lymph node metastases could reduce the extent of surgery in many women, thereby reducing morbidity. Sentinel node assessment is a diagnostic technique that uses traceable agents to identify the spread of cancer cells to the lymph nodes draining affected tissue. Once the sentinel nodes are identified, they are removed and submitted to histological examination. This technique has been found to be useful in diagnosing the nodal involvement of other types of tumours. Sentinel node assessment in vulval cancer has been evaluated with various tracing agents. It is unclear which tracing agent or combination of agents is most accurate. 
Objectives
To assess the diagnostic test accuracy of various techniques using traceable agents for sentinel lymph node assessment to diagnose groin lymph node metastasis in women with FIGO stage IB or higher vulval cancer and to investigate sources of heterogeneity. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE (1946 to February 2013), EMBASE (1974 to March 2013) and the relevant Cochrane trial registers. 
Selection criteria
Studies that evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of traceable agents for sentinel node assessment (involving the identification of a sentinel node plus histological examination) compared with histological examination of removed groin lymph nodes following complete inguinofemoral lymphadenectomy (IFL) in women with vulval cancer, provided there were sufficient data for the construction of two‐by‐two tables. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors (TAL, AP) independently screened titles and abstracts for relevance, classified studies for inclusion/exclusion and extracted data. We assessed the methodological quality of studies using the QUADAS‐2 tool. We used univariate meta‐analytical methods to estimate pooled sensitivity estimates. 
Main results
We included 34 studies evaluating 1614 women and approximately 2396 groins. The overall methodological quality of included studies was moderate. The studies included in this review used the following traceable techniques to identify sentinel nodes in their participants: blue dye only (three studies), technetium only (eight studies), blue dye plus technetium combined (combined tests; 13 studies) and various inconsistent combinations of these three techniques (mixed tests; 10 studies). For studies of mixed tests, we obtained separate test data where possible. 
