Background
Kawasaki disease (KD) is an acute inflammatory vasculitis (inflammation of the blood vessels) that mainly affects children between six months and five years of age. The vasculitis primarily impacts medium‐sized blood vessels, especially in the coronary arteries. In most children, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and aspirin therapy rapidly reduce inflammatory markers, fever, and other clinical symptoms. However, approximately 15% to 20% of children receiving the initial IVIG infusion show persistent or recurrent fever and are classified as IVIG‐resistant. Tumor necrosis factor‐alpha (TNF‐α) is an inflammatory cytokine that plays an important role in host defence against infections and in immune responses. Several studies have established that blocking TNF‐α is critical for obtaining anti‐inflammatory effects in children with KD, thus, there is a need to identify benefits and risks of TNF‐α blockers for the treatment of KD. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of using TNF‐α blockers (i.e. infliximab and etanercept) to treat children with Kawasaki disease. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL databases, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials register to 19 September 2018. We also undertook reference checking of grey literature. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared TNF‐α blockers (i.e. infliximab and etanercept) to placebo or other drugs (including retreatment with IVIG) in children with KD, reported in abstract or full‐text. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently applied the study selection criteria, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. When necessary, we contacted study authors for additional information. We used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We included five trials from 14 reports, with a total of 494 participants. All included trials were individual RCTs that examined the effect of TNF‐α blockers for KD. 
Five trials (with 494 participants) reported the incidence of treatment resistance. TNF‐α blockers reduced the incidence of treatment resistance (TNF‐α blocker intervention group 30/237, control group 58/257; risk ratio (RR) 0.57, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.38 to 0.86; low‐certainty evidence). 
Four trials reported the incidence of coronary artery abnormalities (CAAs). Three trials (with 270 participants) contributed data to the meta‐analysis, since we could not get the data needed for the analysis from the fourth trial. There was no clear difference between groups in the incidence of CAAs (TNF‐α blocker intervention group 8/125, control group 9/145; RR 1.18, 95% CI 0.45 to 3.12; low‐certainty evidence). 
