Background
Clinical trials have shown that exercise in adults with overweight or obesity can reduce bodyweight. There has been no quantitative systematic review of this in The Cochrane Library. 
Objectives
To assess exercise as a means of achieving weight loss in people with overweight or obesity, using randomised controlled clinical trials. 
Search methods
Studies were obtained from computerised searches of multiple electronic bibliographic databases. 
Selection criteria
Studies were included if they were randomised controlled trials that examined body weight change using one or more physical activity intervention in adults with overweight or obesity at baseline and loss to follow‐up of participants of less than 15%. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data.
Main results
The 43 studies included 3476 participants. Although significant heterogeneity in some of the main effects' analyses limited ability to pool effect sizes across some studies, a number of pooled effect sizes were calculated. When compared with no treatment, exercise resulted in small weight losses across studies. Exercise combined with diet resulted in a greater weight reduction than diet alone (WMD ‐ 1.0 kg; 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.3 to ‐0.7). Increasing exercise intensity increased the magnitude of weight loss (WMD ‐ 1.5 kg; 95% CI ‐2.3 to ‐0.7). There were significant differences in other outcome measures such as serum lipids, blood pressure and fasting plasma glucose. Exercise as a sole weight loss intervention resulted in significant reductions in diastolic blood pressure (WMD ‐ 2 mmHg; 95% CI ‐4 to ‐1), triglycerides (WMD ‐ 0.2 mmol/L; 95% CI ‐0.3 to ‐0.1) and fasting glucose (WMD ‐ 0.2 mmol/L; 95% CI ‐0.3 to ‐0.1). Higher intensity exercise resulted in greater reduction in fasting serum glucose than lower intensity exercise (WMD ‐ 0.3 mmol/L; 95% CI ‐0.5 to ‐0.2). No data were identified on adverse events, quality of life, morbidity, costs or on mortality. 
