Background
Treatment of haemorrhagic shock involves maintaining blood pressure and tissue perfusion until bleeding is controlled. Different resuscitation strategies have been used to maintain the blood pressure in trauma patients until bleeding is controlled. However, while maintaining blood pressure may prevent shock, it may worsen bleeding. 
Objectives
To examine the effect on mortality and coagulation times of two intravenous fluid administration strategies in the management of haemorrhagic hypovolaemia, early compared to delayed administration and larger compared to smaller volume of fluid administered. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Injuries Group Specialised Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library, Ovid MEDLINE(R), Ovid MEDLINE(R) In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE(R) Daily and Ovid OLDMEDLINE(R), Embase Classic + Embase (OvidSP), ISI Web of Science (SCI‐Expanded and CPCI‐S) and clinical trials registries. We checked reference lists of identified articles and contacted authors and experts in the field. The most recent search was run on 5 February 2014. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials of the timing and volume of intravenous fluid administration in trauma patients with bleeding. Trials in which different types of intravenous fluid were compared were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted data and assessed trial quality.
Main results
Six trials involving a total of 2128 people were included in this review. We did not combine the results quantitatively because the interventions and patient populations were so diverse. 
Early versus delayed fluid administration  Three trials reported mortality and two reported coagulation data. 
In the first trial (n = 598) the relative risk (RR) for death with early fluid administration was 1.26 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.00 to 1.58). The weighted mean differences (WMD) for prothrombin time and partial thromboplastin time were 2.7 (95% CI 0.9 to 4.5) and 4.3 (95% CI 1.74 to 6.9) seconds, respectively. In the second trial (n = 50) the RR for death with early blood transfusion was 5.4 (95% CI 0.3 to 107.1). The WMD for partial thromboplastin time was 7.0 (95% CI 6.0 to 8.0) seconds. In the third trial (n = 1309) the RR for death with early fluid administration was 1.06 (95% CI 0.77 to 1.47). 
