Background
Neonatal seizures are a common problem and most neonates with seizures are treated with anticonvulsants. There is wide variation in clinical practice in both diagnosis and treatment of such seizures and this reflects the lack of clear evidence of the relative benefit and harm of the anticonvulsants used. The routine use of anticonvulsants to treat seizures in neonates needs to be evaluated. 
Objectives
To assess and compare (with respect to benefits and harm) different anticonvulsants administered to neonates for the treatment of established seizures. 
Search methods
Relevant randomised controlled trials were identified using a combination of electronic database searches (MEDLINE 1966 ‐ March 2004, EMBASE 1980 ‐ March 2004), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library, Issue 1, 2004) and hand searches. Identification of ongoing or unpublished trials was attempted by contacting prominent authors in the field and searching electronic registers of ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
All randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled clinical trials with reported data comparing the following outcomes: mortality, neurodevelopmental disability, need for additional anticonvulsants, need for maintenance anticonvulsants at discharge and adverse events (hypotension requiring volume or inotropic support, arrhythmia, respiratory depression, hepatotoxicity) in neonates treated for seizures with systemic anticonvulsants compared to placebo, no drug or alternative anticonvulsants. 
Data collection and analysis
Methodological quality and validity were assessed without consideration of the results. The first reviewer screened the title and abstracts of studies identified by the above search strategy. Full text versions of studies of potential relevance were re‐screened by both reviewers. Studies meeting the pre‐specified inclusion criteria were included. Relevant data were extracted and analysed separately and any disagreements were resolved by discussion. 
