Background
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review first published in 2011, and most recently updated in 2019. 
Epilepsy is a chronic and disabling neurological disorder, affecting approximately 1% of the population. Up to 30% of people with epilepsy have seizures that are resistant to currently available antiepileptic drugs and require treatment with multiple antiepileptic drugs in combination. Felbamate is a second‐generation antiepileptic drug that can be used as add‐on therapy to standard antiepileptic drugs. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of felbamate versus placebo when used as an add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant focal‐onset epilepsy. 
Search methods
For the latest update, we searched the Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web) and MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 13 July 2021) on 15 July 2021. There were no language or time restrictions. We reviewed the reference lists of retrieved studies to search for additional reports of relevant studies. We also contacted the manufacturers of felbamate and experts in the field for information about any unpublished or ongoing studies. 
Selection criteria
We searched for randomised placebo‐controlled add‐on studies of people of any age with drug‐resistant focal seizures. The studies could be double‐blind, single‐blind or unblinded and could be of parallel‐group or cross‐over design. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies for inclusion and extracted information. In the case of disagreements, a third review author arbitrated. Review authors assessed the following outcomes: 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency; absolute or percentage reduction in seizure frequency; treatment withdrawal; adverse effects; quality of life. 
Main results
We included four randomised controlled trials, representing a total of 236 participants, in the review. Two trials had parallel‐group design, the third had a two‐period cross‐over design, and the fourth had a three‐period cross‐over design. We judged all four studies to be at an unclear risk of bias overall. Bias arose from the incomplete reporting of methodological details, the incomplete and selective reporting of outcome data, and from participants having unstable drug regimens during experimental treatment in one trial. Due to significant methodological heterogeneity, clinical heterogeneity and differences in outcome measures, it was not possible to perform a meta‐analysis of the extracted data. 
