Background
Stillbirth affects 2.6 million pregnancies worldwide each year. Whilst the majority of cases occur in low‐ and middle‐income countries, stillbirth remains an important clinical issue for high‐income countries (HICs) ‐ with both the UK and the USA reporting rates above the mean for HICs. In HICs, the most frequently reported association with stillbirth is placental dysfunction. Placental dysfunction may be evident clinically as fetal growth restriction (FGR) and small‐for‐dates infants. It can be caused by placental abruption or hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and many other disorders and factors 
Placental abnormalities are noted in 11% to 65% of stillbirths. Identification of FGR is difficult in utero. Small‐for‐gestational age (SGA), as assessed after birth, is the most commonly used surrogate measure for this outcome. The degree of SGA is associated with the likelihood of FGR; 30% of infants with a birthweight < 10th centile are thought to be FGR, while 70% of infants with a birthweight < 3rd centile are thought to be FGR. Critically, SGA is the most significant antenatal risk factor for a stillborn infant. Correct identification of SGA infants is associated with a reduction in the perinatal mortality rate. However, currently used tests, such as measurement of symphysis‐fundal height, have a low reported sensitivity and specificity for the identification of SGA infants. 
Objectives
The primary objective was to assess and compare the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound assessment of fetal growth by estimated fetal weight (EFW) and placental biomarkers alone and in any combination used after 24 weeks of pregnancy in the identification of placental dysfunction as evidenced by either stillbirth, or birth of a SGA infant. Secondary objectives were to investigate the effect of clinical and methodological factors on test performance. 
Search methods
We developed full search strategies with no language or date restrictions. The following sources were searched: MEDLINE, MEDLINE In Process and Embase via Ovid, Cochrane (Wiley) CENTRAL, Science Citation Index (Web of Science), CINAHL (EBSCO) with search strategies adapted for each database as required; ISRCTN Registry, UK Clinical Trials Gateway, WHO International Clinical Trials Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov for ongoing studies; specialist abstract and conference proceeding resources (British Library’s ZETOC and Web of Science Conference Proceedings Citation Index). Search last conducted in Ocober 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included studies of pregnant women of any age with a gestation of at least 24 weeks if relevant outcomes of pregnancy (live birth/stillbirth; SGA infant) were assessed. Studies were included irrespective of whether pregnant women were deemed to be low or high risk for complications or were of mixed populations (low and high risk). Pregnancies complicated by fetal abnormalities and multi‐fetal pregnancies were excluded as they have a higher risk of stillbirth from non‐placental causes. With regard to biochemical tests, we included assays performed using any technique and at any threshold used to determine test positivity. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted the numbers of true positive, false positive, false negative, and true negative test results from each study. We assessed risk of bias and applicability using the QUADAS‐2 tool. Meta‐analyses were performed using the hierarchical summary ROC model to estimate and compare test accuracy. 
Main results
We included 91 studies that evaluated seven tests — blood tests for human placental lactogen (hPL), oestriol, placental growth factor (PlGF) and uric acid, ultrasound EFW and placental grading and urinary oestriol — in a total of 175,426 pregnant women, in which 15,471 pregnancies ended in the birth of a small baby and 740 pregnancies which ended in stillbirth. The quality of included studies was variable with most domains at low risk of bias although 59% of studies were deemed to be of unclear risk of bias for the reference standard domain. Fifty‐three per cent of studies were of high concern for applicability due to inclusion of only high‐ or low‐risk women. 
