Background
A considerable challenge for maternity care providers is recognising clinical deterioration early in pregnant women. Professional bodies recommend the use of clinical assessment protocols or evaluation tools, commonly referred to as physiological track‐and‐trigger systems (TTS) or early warning systems (EWS), as a means of helping maternity care providers recognise actual or potential clinical deterioration early. TTS/EWS are clinician‐administered (midwife, obstetrician), bedside physiological assessment protocols, charts or tools designed to record routinely assessed clinical parameters; that is, blood pressure, temperature, heart rate, urine output and mental/neurological alertness. In general, these systems involve the application of scores or alert indicators to the observed physiological parameters based on their prespecified limits of normality. The overall system score or alert limit is then used to assist the maternity care provider identify a need to escalate care. This, in turn, may allow for earlier intervention(s) to alter the course of the emerging critical illness and ultimately reduce or avoid mortality and morbidity sequelae. 
Objectives
To evaluate the clinical‐ and cost‐effectiveness of maternal physiological TTS/EWS on pregnancy, labour and birth, postpartum (up to 42 days) and neonatal outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register (28 May 2021), ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (7 June 2021), OpenGrey, the ProQuest Dissertations and Theses database (7 June 2021), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials (RCTs), including cluster‐RCTs, comparing physiological TTS/EWS with no system or another system. Participants were women who were pregnant or had given birth within the previous 42 days, at high risk and low risk for pregnancy, labour and birth, and postpartum complications. 
