Background
Keratoconus is an ectatic (weakening) disease of the cornea, which is the clear surface at the front of the eye. Approximately 10% to 15% of patients diagnosed with keratoconus require corneal transplantation. This may be full‐thickness (penetrating) or partial‐thickness (lamellar). 
Objectives
To compare visual outcomes after deep anterior lamellar keratoplasty (DALK) and penetrating keratoplasty for keratoconus, and to compare additional outcomes relating to factors which may contribute to poor visual outcomes (e.g. astigmatism, graft rejection and failure). 
Search methods
We searched a number of electronic databases including CENTRAL, PubMed and EMBASE without using any date or language restrictions. We last searched the electronic databases on 31 October 2013. We also handsearched the proceedings of several international ophthalmic conferences. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the outcomes of DALK and penetrating keratoplasty in the treatment of keratoconus. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors assessed trial quality and extracted data independently. For dichotomous data (graft failure, rejection, achievement of functional vision) results were expressed as odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For continuous data (postoperative best corrected visual acuity (BCVA), uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA), keratometric astigmatism and spherical equivalent) results were expressed as mean differences (MDs) and 95% CIs. 
Main results
We identified two completed studies, with a total of 111 participants (n = 30 and n = 81), both conducted in Iran, that met our inclusion criteria. Participants had moderate to severe keratoconus pre‐operatively and were randomly allocated to receive either DALK or penetrating keratoplasty. Only one eye of each participant was treated as part of the trials. The smaller study had 12 month follow‐up data for all participants. For the larger study, four DALK surgeries had to be abandoned due to technical failure and visual and refractive outcomes were not measured in these participants. Follow‐up length for the remaining 77 participants ranged from 6.8 to 36.4 months, with all 77 followed for at least three months post‐suture removal. Details of the randomisation procedure were unavailable for the smaller study and so sensitivity analyses were conducted to determine if the results from this study had affected the overall results of the review. 
