Background
Traditionally, laparoscopic cholecystectomy is performed using two 10‐mm ports and two 5‐mm ports. Recently, a reduction in the number of ports has been suggested as a modification of the standard technique with a view to decreasing pain and improving cosmesis. The safety and effectiveness of using fewer‐than‐four ports has not yet been established. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits (such as improvement in cosmesis and earlier return to activity) and harms (such as increased complications) of using fewer‐than‐four ports (fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy) versus four ports in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy for any reason (symptomatic gallstones, acalculous cholecystitis, gallbladder polyp, or any other condition). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; Issue 8, 2013), MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index Expanded, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform portal to September 2013. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised clinical trials comparing fewer‐than‐four ports versus four ports, that is, with standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy that is performed with two ports of at least 10‐mm incision and two ports of at least 5‐mm incision. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified the trials and extracted the data. We analysed the data using both the fixed‐effect and the random‐effects models. For each outcome, we calculated the risk ratio (RR) or mean difference (MD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI) based on intention‐to‐treat analysis, whenever possible. 
Main results
We found nine trials with 855 participants that randomised participants to fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy (n = 427) versus four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy (n = 428). Most trials included low anaesthetic risk participants undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Seven of the nine trials used a single port laparoscopic cholecystectomy and the remaining two trials used three‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy as the experimental intervention. Only one trial including 70 participants had low risk of bias. Fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy could be completed successfully in more than 90% of participants in most trials. The remaining participants were mostly converted to four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy but some participants had to undergo open cholecystectomy. 
