Background
Exercise training is commonly recommended for adults with fibromyalgia. We defined flexibility exercise training programs as those involving movements of a joint or a series of joints, through complete range of motion, thus targeting major muscle‐tendon units. This review is one of a series of reviews updating the first review published in 2002. 
Objectives
To evaluate the benefits and harms of flexibility exercise training in adults with fibromyalgia. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL (Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature), PEDro (Physiotherapy Evidence Database), Thesis and Dissertation Abstracts, AMED (Allied and Complementary Medicine Database), the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP), and ClinicalTrials.gov up to December 2017, unrestricted by language, and we reviewed the reference lists of retrieved trials to identify potentially relevant trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized trials (RCTs) including adults diagnosed with fibromyalgia based on published criteria. Major outcomes were health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), pain intensity, stiffness, fatigue, physical function, trial withdrawals, and adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected articles for inclusion, extracted data, performed 'Risk of bias' assessments, and assessed the certainty of the body of evidence for major outcomes using the GRADE approach. All discrepancies were rechecked, and consensus was achieved by discussion. 
Main results
We included 12 RCTs (743 people). Among these RCTs, flexibility exercise training was compared to an untreated control group, land‐based aerobic training, resistance training, or other interventions (i.e. Tai Chi, Pilates, aquatic biodanza, friction massage, medications). Studies were at risk of selection, performance, and detection bias (due to lack of adequate randomization and allocation concealment, lack of participant or personnel blinding, and lack of blinding for self‐reported outcomes). With the exception of withdrawals and adverse events, major outcomes were self‐reported and were expressed on a 0‐to‐100 scale (lower values are best, negative mean differences (MDs) indicate improvement). We prioritized the findings of flexibility exercise training compared to land‐based aerobic training and present them fully here. 
Very low‐certainty evidence showed that compared with land‐based aerobic training, flexibility exercise training (five trials with 266 participants) provides no clinically important benefits with regard to HRQoL, pain intensity, fatigue, stiffness, and physical function. Low‐certainty evidence showed no difference between these groups for withdrawals at completion of the intervention (8 to 20 weeks). 
