Background
Penetrating keratoplasty is a corneal transplantation procedure in which a full‐thickness cornea from the host is replaced by a graft from a donor. The use of various immunosuppressants to prevent graft rejection, the most common cause of graft failure in the late postoperative period, is increasing. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of immunosuppressants in the prophylaxis of corneal allograft rejection after high‐ and normal‐risk keratoplasty. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register) (2015, Issue 4), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to May 2015), EMBASE (January 1980 to May 2015), China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI) (January 1913 to February 2015), VIP database (January 1989 to February 2015), Wanfang Data (www.wanfangdata.com) (January 1990 to February 2015), the ISRCTN registry (www.isrctn.com/editAdvancedSearch), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov), and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the English language databases on 18 May 2015 and the Chinese language databases on 20 February 2015. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing the use of immunosuppressants in the prevention of graft rejection, irrespective of publication language. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard procedures expected by Cochrane. The primary outcome was clear graft survival at 12 months after penetrating keratoplasty. Secondary outcomes included graft rejection, best‐corrected visual acuity, and quality of life. We defined 'high‐risk keratoplasty' as repeat keratoplasty and other indications of reduced graft survival. 
Main results
We included six studies conducted in Germany (three studies), Iran, India, and China. Three studies were conducted in people undergoing high‐risk keratoplasty and investigated three different comparisons: systemic mycophenolate mofetil (MMF) versus no MMF; systemic MMF versus systemic cyclosporine A (CsA); and topical CsA versus placebo. One study compared topical tacrolimus to topical steroid in people with normal‐risk keratoplasty, and two studies compared topical CsA to placebo in people experiencing graft rejection after normal‐risk keratoplasty. Overall, we considered the trials to be at unclear or high risk of bias. 
