Background
Alcohol withdrawal syndrome (AWS) is a distressing and life‐threatening condition that usually affects people who are alcohol dependent when they discontinue or decrease their alcohol consumption. Baclofen shows potential for rapidly reducing symptoms of severe AWS in people with alcoholism. Treatment with baclofen is easy to manage and rarely produces euphoria or other pleasant effects, or craving for the drug. This is an updated version of the original Cochrane Review first published in 2011 and last updated in 2017. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of baclofen for people with AWS.
Search methods
We updated our searches of the following databases to June 2019: the Cochrane Drugs and Alcohol Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase, and CINAHL. We also searched registers of ongoing trials. We handsearched the references quoted in the identified trials, and sought information from researchers, pharmaceutical companies, and relevant trial authors about unpublished or uncompleted trials. We placed no restrictions on language. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled clinical trials (RCTs) evaluating baclofen versus placebo or any other treatment for people with AWS. We excluded uncontrolled, non‐randomised, or quasi‐randomised trials. We included both parallel group and cross‐over studies. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We included four RCTs with 189 randomised participants (one RCT new for this update). None of the included studies reported the primary outcomes of alcohol withdrawal seizures, alcohol withdrawal delirium, or craving. 
For the comparison of baclofen and placebo (1 study, 31 participants), there was no evidence of a difference in Clinical Institute Withdrawal Assessment of Alcohol Scale, Revised (CIWA‐Ar) scores in eight‐hour periods from days one to five (very low‐quality evidence). 
For the comparison of baclofen and diazepam (2 studies, 85 participants), there was no evidence of a difference in change from baseline to days 10 to 15 on CIWA‐Ar scores (very low‐quality evidence, meta‐analysis was not performed due to insufficient data). In one study (37 participants), there was no evidence of a difference in participants with at least one adverse event (risk difference (RD) 0.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) –0.10 to 0.10; very low‐quality evidence), dropouts (RD 0.00, 95% CI –0.10 to 0.10; very low‐quality evidence), and dropouts due to adverse events (RD 0.00, 95% CI –0.10 to 0.10; very low‐quality evidence). 
