Background
Multinodular goitre is common in women. Treatments for non‐toxic multinodular goitre include surgery, levothyroxine suppressive therapy, and radioiodine. Radioiodine therapy is the only non‐surgical alternative for non‐toxic multinodular goitre. However, a high amount of radioiodine is needed to enable the thyroid nodules to adequately take up the radioiodine, because the multinodular goitre takes up a low amount of iodine. Recombinant human thyrotropin (rhTSH) has been used to increase radioiodine uptake and reduce thyroid volume of the multinodular goitre. Whether the improved reduction of the goitre resulting from rhTSH‐stimulated radioiodine therapy is beneficial to the person remains controversial. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of recombinant human thyrotropin‐aided radioiodine treatment for non‐toxic multinodular goitre. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Scopus as well as ICTRP Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. The date of the last search of all databases was 18 December 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled clinical trials (RCTs) comparing the effects of rhTSH‐aided radioiodine treatment compared with radioiodine alone for non‐toxic multinodular goitre, with at least 12 months of follow‐up. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts for relevance. Screening for inclusion, data extraction, and risk of bias assessment were carried out by one review author and checked by a second. Our main outcomes were health‐related quality of life (QoL), hypothyroidism, adverse events, thyroid volume, all‐cause mortality, and costs. We used a random‐effects model to perform meta‐analyses, and calculated risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous outcomes, and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes, using 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for effect estimates. We evaluated the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included six RCTs. A total of 197 participants were allocated to rhTSh‐aided radioiodine therapy, and 124 participants were allocated to radioiodine. A single dose of radioiodine was administered 24 hours after the intramuscular injection of a single dose of rhTSH. The duration of follow‐up ranged between 12 and 36 months. 
Low‐certainty evidence from one study, with 85 participants, showed uncertain effects for QoL for either intervention. RhTSH‐aided radioiodine increased hypothyroidism compared with radioiodine alone (64/197 participants (32.5%) in the rhTSH‐aided radioiodine group versus 15/124 participants (12.1%) in the radioiodine alone group; RR 2.53, 95% CI 1.52 to 4.20; 6 studies, 321 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence in favour of radioiodine alone). A total of 118/197 participants (59.9%) in the rhTSH‐aided radioiodine group compared with 60/124 participants (48.4%) in the radioiodine alone group experienced adverse events (random‐effects RR 1.24, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.63; 6 studies, 321 participants; fixed‐effect RR 1.23, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.49 in favour of radioiodine only; low‐certainty evidence). 
RhTSH‐aided radioiodine reduced thyroid volume with a MD of 11.9% (95% CI 4.4 to 19.4; 6 studies, 268 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). One study with 28 participants reported one death in the radioiodine alone group (very‐low certainty evidence). No study reported on costs. 
