Background
Refractive errors (conditions in which the eye fails to focus objects accurately on the retina due to defects in the refractive system), are the most common cause of visual impairment. Myopia, hyperopia, and astigmatism are low‐order aberrations, usually corrected with spectacles, contact lenses, or conventional refractive surgery. Higher‐order aberrations (HOAs) can be quantified with wavefront aberration instruments and corrected using wavefront‐guided or wavefront‐optimized laser surgery. Wavefront‐guided ablations are based on preoperative measurements of HOAs; wavefront‐optimized ablations are designed to minimize induction of new HOAs while preserving naturally occurring aberrations. Two wavefront procedures are expected to produce better visual acuity than conventional procedures. 
Objectives
The primary objective was to compare effectiveness and safety of wavefront procedures, laser‐assisted in‐situ keratomileusis (LASIK) or photorefractive keratectomy (PRK) or laser epithelial keratomileusis (LASEK) versus corresponding conventional procedures, for correcting refractive errors in adults for postoperative uncorrected visual acuity, residual refractive errors, and residual HOAs. The secondary objective was to compare two wavefront procedures. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register; 2019, Issue 8); Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid Embase; Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences (LILACS); the ISRCTN registry; ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO ICTRP. The date of the search was 6 August 2019. We imposed no restrictions by language or year of publication. We used the Science Citation Index (September 2013) and searched the reference lists of included trials to identify additional relevant trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing either wavefront modified with conventional refractive surgery or wavefront‐optimized with wavefront‐guided refractive surgery in participants aged ⪰ 18 years with refractive errors. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methodology.
Main results
We identified 33 RCTs conducted in Asia, Europe and United States, totaling 1499 participants (2797 eyes). Participants had refractive errors ranging from high myopia to low hyperopia. Studies reported at least one of the following review‐specific outcomes based on proportions of eyes: with uncorrected visual acuity (UCVA) of 20/20 or better, without loss of one or more lines of best spectacle‐corrected visual acuity (BSCVA), within ± 0.50 diopters (D) of target refraction, with HOAs and adverse events. 
Study characteristics and risk of bias 
Participants were mostly women, mean age 29 and 53 years, and without previous refractive surgery, ocular pathology or systemic comorbidity. We could not judge risks of bias for most domains of most studies. Most studies in which both eyes of a participant were analyzed failed to account for correlations between two eyes in the analysis and reporting of outcomes. 
