Background
Antitumour antibiotics are used in the management of metastatic breast cancer. Some of these agents have demonstrated higher tumour response rates than non‐antitumour antibiotic regimens, however a survival benefit has not been established in this setting. 
Objectives
To review the randomised evidence comparing antitumour antibiotic containing chemotherapy regimens with regimens not containing an antitumour antibiotic in the management of women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Search methods
The Specialised Register maintained by the Cochrane Breast Cancer Group was searched on 3rd October, 2006 using the codes for 'advanced breast cancer' and 'chemotherapy'. Details of the search strategy and coding applied by the Group to create the register are described in the Group's module on The Cochrane Library. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing antitumour antibiotic containing regimens with regimens not containing antitumour antibiotics in women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were collected from published trials. Studies were assessed for eligibility and quality, and data were extracted by two independent reviewers. Hazard Ratios (HRs) were derived from time‐to‐event outcomes where possible, and a fixed effect model was used for meta‐analysis. Response rates were analysed as dichotomous variables. Quality of life and toxicity data were extracted where present. A primary analysis was conducted for all trials and by class of antitumour antibiotic. 
Main results
Thirty‐four trials reporting on 46 treatment comparisons were identified. All trials published results for tumour response and 27 trials published time‐to‐event data for overall survival. The observed 4244 deaths in 5605 randomised women did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference in survival between regimens that contained antitumour antibiotics and those that did not (HR 0.96, 95% CI 0.90 to 1.02, P = 0.22) and no significant heterogeneity. Antitumour antibiotic regimens were favourably associated with time‐to‐progression (HR 0.84, 95% CI 0.77 to 0.91) and tumour response rates (odds ratio (OR) 1.33, 95% CI 1.21 to 1.48) although statistically significant heterogeneity was observed for these outcomes. These associations were consistent when the analysis was restricted to the 30 trials that reported on anthracyclines. Patients receiving anthracycline containing regimens were also more likely to experience toxic events compared to patients receiving non‐antitumour antibiotic regimens. No statistically significant difference was observed in any outcome between mitoxantrone containing and non‐antitumour antibiotic‐containing regimens. 
