Background
Nitric oxide (NO) is a prevalent molecule in humans that is responsible for many physiologic activities including pulmonary vasodilation. An exogenous, inhaled form (iNO) exists that mimics this action without affecting systemic blood pressure. This therapy has been implemented in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. This review examines the efficacy of iNO in the postoperative management of infants and children with congenital heart disease (CHD). The original review was published in 2005, updated in 2008 and again in 2014. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of postoperative administration of iNO versus placebo or conventional management, or both, on infants and children with CHD and pulmonary hypertension. The primary outcome was mortality. Secondary outcomes included length of hospital stay; neurodevelopmental disability; number of pulmonary hypertensive crises (PHTC); changes in mean pulmonary arterial pressure (MPAP), mean arterial pressure (MAP), and heart rate (HR); changes in oxygenation measured as the ratio of arterial oxygen tension (PaO2) to fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO2); and measurement of maximum methaemoglobin level as a marker of toxicity. 
Search methods
In this updated version we extended the CENTRAL search to 2013, Issue 12 of The Cochrane Library, and MEDLINE and EMBASE through to 1 December 2013. The original search was performed in July 2004 and again in November 2007. We included abstracts and all languages. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized and quasi‐randomized controlled trials comparing iNO with placebo or conventional management, or both. Trials included only children with CHD requiring surgery complicated by pulmonary hypertension. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors extracted data. Data were collected on mortality; number of PHTC; changes in MPAP, MAP, HR, and PaO2:FiO2; and maximum methaemoglobin level. Data on long‐term mortality, neurodevelopmental disability, and length of hospital stay were unavailable. We performed subgroup analysis by method of control (placebo or conventional management). 
