Background
This is the fourth update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2002 and last updated in 2016. It is common clinical practice to follow patients with colorectal cancer for several years following their curative surgery or adjuvant therapy, or both. Despite this widespread practice, there is considerable controversy about how often patients should be seen, what tests should be performed, and whether these varying strategies have any significant impact on patient outcomes. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of follow‐up programmes (follow‐up versus no follow‐up, follow‐up strategies of varying intensity, and follow‐up in different healthcare settings) on overall survival for patients with colorectal cancer treated with curative intent. Secondary objectives are to assess relapse‐free survival, salvage surgery, interval recurrences, quality of life, and the harms and costs of surveillance and investigations. 
Search methods
For this update, on 5 April 2109 we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and Science Citation Index. We also searched reference lists of articles, and handsearched the Proceedings of the American Society for Radiation Oncology. In addition, we searched the following trials registries: ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We contacted study authors. We applied no language or publication restrictions to the search strategies. 
Selection criteria
We included only randomised controlled trials comparing different follow‐up strategies for participants with non‐metastatic colorectal cancer treated with curative intent. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently determined study eligibility, performed data extraction, and assessed risk of bias and methodological quality. We used GRADE to assess evidence quality. 
Main results
We identified 19 studies, which enrolled 13,216 participants (we included four new studies in this second update). Sixteen out of the 19 studies were eligible for quantitative synthesis. Although the studies varied in setting (general practitioner (GP)‐led, nurse‐led, or surgeon‐led) and 'intensity' of follow‐up, there was very little inconsistency in the results. 
Overall survival: we found intensive follow‐up made little or no difference (hazard ratio (HR) 0.91, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.80 to 1.04: I² = 18%; high‐quality evidence). There were 1453 deaths among 12,528 participants in 15 studies. In absolute terms, the average effect of intensive follow‐up on overall survival was 24 fewer deaths per 1000 patients, but the true effect could lie between 60 fewer to 9 more per 1000 patients. 
Colorectal cancer‐specific survival: we found intensive follow‐up probably made little or no difference (HR 0.93, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.07: I² = 0%; moderate‐quality evidence). There were 925 colorectal cancer deaths among 11,771 participants enrolled in 11 studies. In absolute terms, the average effect of intensive follow‐up on colorectal cancer‐specific survival was 15 fewer colorectal cancer‐specific survival deaths per 1000 patients, but the true effect could lie between 47 fewer to 12 more per 1000 patients. 
