Background
Routine monitoring of gastric residual in preterm infants on gavage feeds is a common practice that is used to guide initiation and advancement of feeds. Some literature suggests that an increase in/or an altered gastric residual may be predictive of necrotising enterocolitis. Withholding monitoring of gastric residual may take away the early indicator and thus may increase the risk of necrotising enterocolitis. However, routine monitoring of gastric residual as a guide, in the absence of uniform standards, may lead to unnecessary delay in initiation and advancement of feeds and delay in reaching full enteral feeds. This in turn may increase the duration of parenteral nutrition and central venous line usage, increasing their complications. Delay in achieving full enteral feeds increases the risk of extrauterine growth restriction and neurodevelopmental impairment. 
Objectives
• To assess the efficacy and safety of routine monitoring of gastric residual versus no monitoring of gastric residual in preterm infants 
• To assess the efficacy and safety of routine monitoring of gastric residual based on two different criteria for interrupting feeds or decreasing feed volume in preterm infants 
We planned to undertake subgroup analysis based on gestational age (≤ 27 weeks, 28 weeks to 31 weeks, ≥ 32 weeks), birth weight (< 1000 g, 1000 g to 1499 g, ≥ 1500 g), small for gestational age versus appropriate for gestational age infants (classified using birth weight relative to the reference population), type of feed the infant is receiving (human milk or formula milk), and frequency of monitoring of gastric residual (before every feed, before every third feed, etc.) (see "Subgroup analysis and investigation of heterogeneity"). 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 1), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 19 February 2018), Embase (1980 to 19 February 2018), and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL; 1982 to 19 February 2018). We also searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings, and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials that compared routine monitoring of gastric residual versus no monitoring or two different criteria of gastric residual to interrupt feeds in preterm infants. 
