Background
The prevalence of musculoskeletal symptoms among sedentary workers is high. Interventions that promote occupational standing or walking have been found to reduce occupational sedentary time, but it is unclear whether these interventions ameliorate musculoskeletal symptoms in sedentary workers. 
Objectives
To investigate the effectiveness of workplace interventions to increase standing or walking for decreasing musculoskeletal symptoms in sedentary workers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, OSH UPDATE, PEDro, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) search portal up to January 2019. We also screened reference lists of primary studies and contacted experts to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster‐randomised controlled trials (cluster‐RCTs), quasi RCTs, and controlled before‐and‐after (CBA) studies of interventions to reduce or break up workplace sitting by encouraging standing or walking in the workplace among workers with musculoskeletal symptoms. The primary outcome was self‐reported intensity or presence of musculoskeletal symptoms by body region and the impact of musculoskeletal symptoms such as pain‐related disability. We considered work performance and productivity, sickness absenteeism, and adverse events such as venous disorders or perinatal complications as secondary outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles, abstracts, and full‐text articles for study eligibility. These review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We contacted study authors to request additional data when required. We used GRADE considerations to assess the quality of evidence provided by studies that contributed to the meta‐analyses. 
Main results
We found ten studies including three RCTs, five cluster RCTs, and two CBA studies with a total of 955 participants, all from high‐income countries. Interventions targeted changes to the physical work environment such as provision of sit‐stand or treadmill workstations (four studies), an activity tracker (two studies) for use in individual approaches, and multi‐component interventions (five studies). We did not find any studies that specifically targeted only the organisational level components. Two studies assessed pain‐related disability. 
Physical work environment  
There was no significant difference in the intensity of low back symptoms (standardised mean difference (SMD) ‐0.35, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.80 to 0.10; 2 RCTs; low‐quality evidence) nor in the intensity of upper back symptoms (SMD ‐0.48, 95% CI ‐.96 to 0.00; 2 RCTs; low‐quality evidence) in the short term (less than six months) for interventions using sit‐stand workstations compared to no intervention. No studies examined discomfort outcomes at medium (six to less than 12 months) or long term (12 months and more). No significant reduction in pain‐related disability was noted when a sit‐stand workstation was used compared to when no intervention was provided in the medium term (mean difference (MD) ‐0.4, 95% CI ‐2.70 to 1.90; 1 RCT; low‐quality evidence). 
