Background
Following surgery, surgical wounds can be closed using a variety of devices including sutures (subcuticular or transdermal), staples and tissue adhesives. Subcuticular sutures are intradermal stitches (placed immediately below the epidermal layer). The increased availability of synthetic absorbable filaments (stitches which are absorbed by the body and do not have to be removed) has led to an increased use of subcuticular sutures. However, in non‐obstetric surgery, there is still controversy about whether subcuticular sutures increase the incidence of wound complications. 
Objectives
To examine the efficacy and acceptability of subcuticular sutures for skin closure in non‐obstetric surgery. 
Search methods
In March 2019, we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials which compared subcuticular sutures with any other methods for skin closure in non‐obstetric surgery were included in the review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified the trials, extracted data and carried out risk of bias and GRADE assessment of the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We included 66 studies (7487 participants); 11 included trials had more than two arms. Most trials had poorly‐reported methodology, meaning that it is unclear whether they were at high risk of bias. Most trials compared subcuticular sutures with transdermal sutures, skin staples or tissue adhesives. Most outcomes prespecified in the review protocol were reported. The certainty of evidence varied from high to very low in the comparisons of subcuticular sutures with transdermal sutures or staples and tissue adhesives; the certainty of the evidence for the comparison with surgical tapes and zippers was low to very low. Most evidence was downgraded for imprecision or risk of bias. 
