Background
Inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) is effective in term infants with hypoxic respiratory failure. The pathophysiology of respiratory failure and the potential risks of iNO differ substantially in preterm infants, necessitating specific study in this population. 
Objectives
To determine effects of treatment with inhaled nitric oxide (iNO) on death, bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) or other serious brain injury and on adverse long‐term neurodevelopmental outcomes in preterm newborn infants with hypoxic respiratory failure. 
Owing to substantial variation in study eligibility criteria, which decreases the utility of an overall analysis, we divided participants post hoc into three groups: (1) infants treated over the first three days of life because of defects in oxygenation, (2) preterm infants with evidence of pulmonary disease treated routinely with iNO and (3) infants treated later (after three days of age) because of elevated risk of BPD. 
Search methods
We used standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group. We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Healthstar and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials in the Cochrane Library through January 2016. We also searched the abstracts of the Pediatric Academic Societies. 
Selection criteria
Eligible for inclusion were randomised and quasi‐randomised studies in preterm infants with respiratory disease that compared effects of iNO gas versus control, with or without placebo. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methods of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group and applied the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to assess the quality of evidence. 
Main results
We found 17 randomised controlled trials of iNO therapy in preterm infants. We grouped these trials post hoc into three categories on the basis of entry criteria: treatment during the first three days of life for impaired oxygenation, routine use in preterm babies along with respiratory support and later treatment for infants at increased risk for bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). We performed no overall analyses. 
