Background
In recent years there has been a rise in the participation rate of women in employment. Some may become pregnant while in employment and subsequently deliver their babies. Most may decide to return early to work after giving birth for various reasons. Unless these mothers get support from their employers and fellow employees, they might give up breastfeeding when they return to work. As a result, the duration and exclusivity of breastfeeding to the recommended age of the babies would be affected. 
Workplace environment can play a positive role to promote breastfeeding. For women going back to work, various types of workplace support interventions are available and this should not be ignored by employers. Notably, promoting breastfeeding in a workplace may have benefits for the women, the baby and also the employer. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of workplace interventions to support and promote breastfeeding among women returning to paid work after the birth of their children, and its impact on process outcomes pertinent to employees and employers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (2 August 2012). 
Selection criteria
Two authors independently assessed all identified studies for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised controlled trials that compared workplace interventions with no intervention or two or more workplace interventions against each other. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors planned to evaluate the methodological quality of the eligible trials and extract data. 
Main results
There were no randomised controlled trials or quasi‐randomised controlled trials identified.
Authors' conclusions
No trials have evaluated the effectiveness of workplace interventions in promoting breastfeeding among women returning to paid work after the birth of their child. The impact of such intervention on process outcomes is also unknown. Randomised controlled trials are required to establish the benefits of various types of workplace interventions to support, encourage and promote breastfeeding among working mothers. 
