Background
Postoperative pancreatic fistula is a common and serious complication following pancreaticoduodenectomy. Duct‐to‐mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy has been used in many centers to reconstruct pancreatic digestive continuity following pancreatoduodenectomy, however, its efficacy and safety are uncertain. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of duct‐to‐mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy versus other types of pancreaticojejunostomy for the reconstruction of pancreatic digestive continuity in participants undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy, and to compare the effects of different duct‐to‐mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy techniques. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Library (2021, Issue 1), MEDLINE (1966 to 9 January 2021), Embase (1988 to 9 January 2021), and Science Citation Index Expanded (1982 to 9 January 2021). 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that compared duct‐to‐mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy with other types of pancreaticojejunostomy (e.g. invagination pancreaticojejunostomy, binding pancreaticojejunostomy) in participants undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy. We also included RCTs that compared different types of duct‐to‐mucosa pancreaticojejunostomy in participants undergoing pancreaticoduodenectomy. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently identified the studies for inclusion, collected the data, and assessed the risk of bias. We performed the meta‐analyses using Review Manager 5. We calculated the risk ratio (RR) for dichotomous outcomes and the mean difference (MD) for continuous outcomes with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For all analyses, we used the random‐effects model. We used the Cochrane RoB 1 tool to assess the risk of bias. We used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence for all outcomes. 
Main results
We included 11 RCTs involving a total of 1696 participants in the review. One RCT was a dual‐center study; the other 10 RCTs were single‐center studies conducted in: China (4 studies); Japan (2 studies); USA (1 study); Egypt (1 study); Germany (1 study); India (1 study); and Italy (1 study). The mean age of participants ranged from 54 to 68 years. All RCTs were at high risk of bias. 
