Background
Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) is excessive menstrual blood loss that interferes with women's quality of life, regardless of the absolute amount of bleeding. It is a very common condition in women of reproductive age, affecting 2 to 5 of every 10 women. Diverse treatments, either medical (hormonal or non‐hormonal) or surgical, are currently available for HMB, with different effectiveness, acceptability, costs and side effects. The best treatment will depend on the woman's age, her intention to become pregnant, the presence of other symptoms, and her personal views and preferences. 
Objectives
To identify, systematically assess and summarise all evidence from studies included in Cochrane Reviews on treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB), using reviews with comparable participants and outcomes; and to present a ranking of the first‐ and second‐line treatments for HMB. 
Methods
We searched for published Cochrane Reviews of HMB interventions in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. The primary outcomes were menstrual bleeding and satisfaction. Secondary outcomes included quality of life, adverse events and the requirement of further treatment. Two review authors independently selected the systematic reviews, extracted data and assessed quality, resolving disagreements by discussion. We assessed review quality using the Assessing the Methodological Quality of Systematic Reviews (AMSTAR) 2 tool and evaluated the certainty of the evidence for each outcome using GRADE methods. We grouped the interventions into first‐ and second‐line treatments, considering participant characteristics (desire for future pregnancy, failure of previous treatment, candidacy for surgery). First‐line treatments included medical interventions, and second‐line treatments included both the levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) and surgical treatments; thus the LNG‐IUS is included in both groups. We developed different networks for first‐ and second‐line treatments. We performed network meta‐analyses of all outcomes, except for quality of life, where we performed pairwise meta‐analyses. We reported the mean rank, the network estimates for mean difference (MD) or odds ratio (OR), with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), and the certainty of evidence (moderate, low or very low certainty). 
We also analysed different endometrial ablation and resection techniques separately from the main network: transcervical endometrial resection (TCRE) with or without rollerball, other resectoscopic endometrial ablation (REA), microwave non‐resectoscopic endometrial ablation (NREA), hydrothermal ablation NREA, bipolar NREA, balloon NREA and other NREA. 
Main results
We included nine systematic reviews published in the Cochrane Library up to July 2021. We updated the reviews that were over two years old. In July 2020, we started the overview with no new reviews about the topic. The included medical interventions were: non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), antifibrinolytics (tranexamic acid), combined oral contraceptives (COC), combined vaginal ring (CVR), long‐cycle and luteal oral progestogens, LNG‐IUS, ethamsylate and danazol (included to provide indirect evidence), which were compared to placebo. Surgical interventions were: open (abdominal), minimally invasive (vaginal or laparoscopic) and unspecified (or surgeon's choice of route of) hysterectomy, REA, NREA, unspecified endometrial ablation (EA) and LNG‐IUS. We grouped the interventions as follows. 
First‐line treatments 
Evidence from 26 studies with 1770 participants suggests that LNG‐IUS results in a large reduction of menstrual blood loss (MBL; mean rank 2.4, MD −105.71 mL/cycle, 95% CI −201.10 to −10.33; low certainty evidence); antifibrinolytics probably reduce MBL (mean rank 3.7, MD −80.32 mL/cycle, 95% CI −127.67 to −32.98; moderate certainty evidence); long‐cycle progestogen reduces MBL (mean rank 4.1, MD −76.93 mL/cycle, 95% CI −153.82 to −0.05; low certainty evidence), and NSAIDs slightly reduce MBL (mean rank 6.4, MD −40.67 mL/cycle, −84.61 to 3.27; low certainty evidence; reference comparator mean rank 8.9). We are uncertain of the true effect of the remaining interventions and the sensitivity analysis for reduction of MBL, as the evidence was rated as very low certainty. 
We are uncertain of the true effect of any intervention (very low certainty evidence) on the perception of improvement and satisfaction. 
