Background
Delirium is now the preferred term to describe acute confusional states. It is experienced by 10 to 30% of all hospital inpatients. Delirium is potentially reversible and is related to several adverse outcomes, including increased hospital length of stay, poor functional status, persistent cognitive impairment, need for institutional care and probably mortality. Disruption of the cholinergic system has been proposed as a key mechanism of delirium. Cholinesterase inhibitors enhance the cholinergic system and there have been reports that they might be beneficial in treating delirium. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of cholinesterase inhibitors in the treatment of delirium. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group's Register of Clinical Trials (which includes records from MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, CENTRAL, LILACS and other databases) was searched for relevant randomised controlled trials using the terms: donepezil or aricept, galantamine or reminyl, rivastigmine OR exelon and tacrine OR cognex on 19 April 2005. As this Specialised Register only contains trials relating to dementia and cognitive impairment, in addition all years of MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and CINAHL were searched for trials of cholinesterase inhibitors for delirium in non‐demented people. 
Selection criteria
Unconfounded, blinded randomised controlled trials, published or unpublished in which treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors was administered and compared with alternative interventions in patients with delirium are included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers (RO, SK) independently assessed the quality of the studies according to parameters such as randomisation, blinding and how dropouts were managed. Each cholinesterase inhibitor was to be examined separately and together as a group. 
The primary outcome measures of interest are length of delirium, severity of delirium and presence and severity of behavioural symptoms (e.g. agitation and hallucinations). Other outcomes of interest include: cognition, need for institutionalisation, length of hospital admission and adverse effects. 
