Background
Motor neuroprosthesis (MN) involves electrical stimulation of neural structures by miniaturized devices to allow the performance of tasks in the natural environment in which people live (home and community context), as an orthosis. In this way, daily use of these devices could act as an environmental facilitator for increasing the activities and participation of people with stroke. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of MN for improving independence in activities of daily living (ADL), activities involving limbs, participation scales of health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), exercise capacity, balance, and adverse events in people after stroke. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (searched 19 August 2019), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (August 2019), MEDLINE (1946 to 16 August 2019), Embase (1980 to 19 August 2019), and five additional databases. We also searched trial registries, databases, and websites to identify additional relevant published, unpublished, and ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and randomized controlled cross‐over trials comparing MN for improving activities and participation versus other assistive technology device or MN without electrical stimulus (stimulator is turned off), or no treatment, for people after stroke. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias of the included studies. Any disagreements were resolved through discussion with a third review author. We contacted trialists for additional information when necessary and performed all analyses using Review Manager 5. We used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We included four RCTs involving a total of 831 participants who were more than three months poststroke. All RCTs were of MN that applied electrical stimuli to the peroneal nerve. All studies included conditioning protocols to adapt participants to MN use, after which participants used MN from up to eight hours per day to all‐day use for ambulation in daily activities performed in the home or community context. All studies compared the use of MN versus another assistive device (ankle‐foot orthosis [AFO]). There was a high risk of bias for at least one assessed domain in three of the four included studies. 
