Background
This is the second update of a review originally published in 2017. Starting with one drug and with a combination of two drugs are strategies suggested in clinical guidelines as initial treatment for hypertension. The recommendations are not based on evidence about clinically relevant outcomes. Some antihypertensive combinations have been shown to be harmful. The actual harm‐to‐benefit balance of each strategy is unknown. 
Objectives
To determine if there are differences in clinical outcomes between monotherapy and combination therapy as initial treatment for primary hypertension. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for randomised controlled trials up to March 2021: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (from 1946), and Embase (from 1974). The World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and the US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register (ClinicalTrials.gov) were searched for ongoing trials. We also contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. We used no language restrictions. We also searched clinical studies repositories of pharmaceutical companies, reviews of combination drugs on the US Food and Drug Administration and European Medicines Agency websites, and lists of references in reviews and clinical practice guidelines. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised, double‐blind trials with at least 12 months' follow‐up in adults with primary hypertension (systolic blood pressure/diastolic blood pressure 140/90 mmHg or higher, or 130/80 mmHg or higher if participants had diabetes), which compared a combination of two first‐line antihypertensive drugs with monotherapy as initial treatment. Trials had to include at least 50 participants per group and report mortality, cardiovascular mortality, cardiovascular events, or serious adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, evaluated the risks of bias, and performed data entry. The primary outcomes were mortality, serious adverse events, cardiovascular events, and cardiovascular mortality. Secondary outcomes were withdrawals due to drug‐related adverse effects, reaching blood pressure control (as defined in each trial), and blood pressure change from baseline. Analyses were based on the intention‐to‐treat principle. We summarised data on dichotomous outcomes as risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence. 
Main results
We found no new trials for this update. The three original trials in the main comparison (monotherapy: 335 participants; combination therapy: 233 participants) included outpatients, mostly European and white people. Two trials only included people with type 2 diabetes; the remaining trial excluded people treated with diabetes, hypocholesterolaemia, or cardiovascular drugs. The follow‐up was 12 months in two trials and 36 months in one trial. The following treatments were compared: perindopril + indapamide versus enalapril; perindopril + indapamide versus atenolol; and verapamil + trandolapril versus verapamil or trandolapril. 
Our 2019 update included one new study in which a subgroup of participants met our inclusion criteria. As none of the four included studies focused solely on people initiating antihypertensive treatment, we asked investigators for data for this subgroup. One study (PREVER‐treatment 2016) used a combination of thiazide‐type diuretic/potassium‐sparing diuretic: chlorthalidone + amiloride compared to losartan. As the amiloride is not indicated in monotherapy, we analysed this study separately. 
It is very uncertain whether combination therapy versus monotherapy reduces total mortality (RR 1.35, 95% CI 0.08 to 21.72), cardiovascular mortality (zero events reported), cardiovascular events (RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.22 to 4.41), serious adverse events (RR 0.77, 95% CI 0.31 to 1.92), or withdrawals due to adverse effects (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.53 to 1.35); all outcomes had 568 participants, and we rated the evidence as of very low certainty due to serious imprecision and for using a subgroup that was not defined in advance. The confidence intervals were extremely wide for all important outcomes and included both appreciable harm and benefit. 
The PREVER‐treatment 2016 trial, which used a combination therapy with potassium‐sparing diuretic (monotherapy: 84 participants; combination therapy: 116 participants), included outpatients. This trial was conducted in Brazil and had a follow‐up of 18 months. The number of events was very low and confidence intervals very wide, with zero events reported for cardiovascular mortality and withdrawals due to adverse events. It is very uncertain if there are differences in clinical outcomes between monotherapy and combination therapy in this trial. 
Authors' conclusions
The numbers of included participants, and hence the number of events, were too small to draw any conclusion about the relative efficacy of monotherapy versus combination therapy, as initial treatment for primary hypertension. There is a need for large clinical trials that address the review question and report clinically relevant endpoints. 
