Background
Self‐monitoring of blood glucose is essential to optimise glycaemic control in type 1 diabetes mellitus. Continuous glucose monitoring (CGM) systems measure interstitial fluid glucose levels to provide semi‐continuous information about glucose levels, which identifies fluctuations that would not have been identified with conventional self‐monitoring. Two types of CGM systems can be defined: retrospective systems and real‐time systems. Real‐time systems continuously provide the actual glucose concentration on a display. Currently, the use of CGM is not common practice and its reimbursement status is a point of debate in many countries. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of CGM systems compared to conventional self‐monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) in patients with diabetes mellitus type 1. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL for the identification of studies. Last search date was June 8, 2011. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing retrospective or real‐time CGM with conventional self‐monitoring of blood glucose levels or with another type of CGM system in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus. Primary outcomes were glycaemic control, e.g. level of glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) and health‐related quality of life. Secondary outcomes were adverse events and complications, CGM derived glycaemic control, death and costs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected the studies, assessed the risk of bias and performed data‐extraction. Although there was clinical and methodological heterogeneity between studies an exploratory meta‐analysis was performed on those outcomes the authors felt could be pooled without losing clinical merit. 
Main results
The search identified 1366 references. Twenty‐two RCTs meeting the inclusion criteria of this review were identified. The results of the meta‐analyses (across all age groups) indicate benefit of CGM for patients starting on CGM sensor augmented insulin pump therapy compared to patients using multiple daily injections of insulin (MDI) and standard monitoring blood glucose (SMBG). After six months there was a significant larger decline in HbA1c level for real‐time CGM users starting insulin pump therapy compared to patients using MDI and SMBG (mean difference (MD) in change in HbA1c level ‐0.7%, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.8% to ‐0.5%, 2 RCTs, 562 patients, I2=84%). The risk of hypoglycaemia was increased for CGM users, but CIs were wide and included unity (4/43 versus 1/35; RR 3.26, 95% CI 0.38 to 27.82 and 21/247 versus 17/248; RR 1.24, 95% CI 0.67 to 2.29). One study reported the occurrence of ketoacidosis from baseline to six months; there was however only one event. Both RCTs were in patients with poorly controlled diabetes. 
