Background
Bipolar disorder is a mental disorder characterised by episodes of elevated or irritable mood (manic or hypomanic episodes) and episodes of low mood and loss of energy (depressive episodes). Drug treatment is the first‐line treatment for acute mania with the initial aim of rapid control of agitation, aggression and dangerous behaviour. Aripiprazole, an atypical antipsychotic, is used in the treatment of mania both as monotherapy and combined with other medicines. The British Association of Psychopharmacology guidelines report that, in monotherapy placebo‐controlled trials, the atypical antipsychotics, including aripiprazole, have been shown to be effective for acute manic or mixed episodes. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and tolerability of aripiprazole alone or in combination with other antimanic drug treatments, compared with placebo and other drug treatments, in alleviating acute symptoms of manic or mixed episodes. Other objectives include reviewing the acceptability of treatment with aripiprazole, investigating the adverse effects of aripiprazole treatment, and determining overall mortality rates among those receiving aripiprazole treatment. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Group's Specialised Register (CCDANCTR‐Studies and CCDANCTR‐References) was searched, all years to 31st July 2013. This register contains relevant randomised controlled trials from: The Cochrane Library (all years), MEDLINE (1950 to date), EMBASE (1974 to date), and PsycINFO (1967 to date). We also searched Bristol‐Myers Squibb clinical trials register, the World Health Organization (WHO) trials portal (ICTRP) and ClinicalTrials.gov (to August 2013). 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing aripiprazole versus placebo or other drugs in the treatment of acute manic or mixed episodes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data, including adverse effect data, from trial reports and assessed bias. The drug manufacturer or the trial authors were contacted for missing data. 
