Background
Cranberries (particularly in the form of cranberry juice) have been used widely for several decades for the prevention and treatment of urinary tract infections (UTIs). The aim of this review is to assess the effectiveness of cranberries in treating such infections. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of cranberries for the treatment of UTIs.
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 18 August 2020 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐RCTs of cranberry juice or cranberry products for the treatment of UTIs. Studies of men, women or children were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Titles and abstracts of studies that were potentially relevant to the review were screened by one author, RJ, who discarded studies that were clearly ineligible but aimed to be overly inclusive rather than risk losing relevant studies. Authors RJ and LM independently assessed whether the studies met the inclusion criteria. Further information was sought from the authors where papers contained insufficient information to make a decision about eligibility. 
Main results
No studies were found which fulfilled all of the inclusion criteria. Three studies were excluded because they did not have any relevant outcomes and one study is ongoing, however its current status is unknown. 
Authors' conclusions
After a thorough search, no RCTs which assessed the effectiveness of cranberry juice for the treatment of UTIs were found. Therefore, at the present time, there is no good quality evidence to suggest that it is effective for the treatment of UTIs. Well‐designed parallel group, double blind studies comparing cranberry juice and other cranberry products versus placebo to assess the effectiveness of cranberry juice in treating UTIs are needed. Outcomes should include reduction in symptoms, sterilisation of the urine, side effects and adherence to therapy. Dosage (amount and concentration) and duration of therapy should also be assessed. Consumers and clinicians will welcome the evidence from these studies. 
