Background
Neonates born through meconium‐stained amniotic fluid (MSAF) are at risk of developing meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). Neonates who are non‐vigorous due to intrapartum asphyxia are at higher risk of developing MAS. Clearance of meconium from the airways below the vocal cords by tracheal suction before initiating other steps of resuscitation may reduce the risk of development of MAS. However, conducting tracheal suction may not only be ineffective, it may also delay effective resuscitation, thus prolonging and worsening the hypoxic‐ischaemic insult.  
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy of tracheal suctioning at birth in preventing meconium aspiration syndrome and other complications among non‐vigorous neonates born through meconium‐stained amniotic fluid. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2020, Issue 11) in the Cochrane Library; Ovid MEDLINE(R) and Epub Ahead of Print, In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Daily and Versions(R) (1946 to 25 November 2020) for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised trials. We also searched clinical trials databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles for RCTs and quasi‐randomised trials (up to November 2020). 
Selection criteria
We included studies enrolling non‐vigorous neonates born through MSAF, if the intervention being tested included tracheal suction at the time of birth with an intent to clear the trachea of meconium before regular breathing efforts began. Tracheal suction could be performed with an endotracheal tube or a wide‐gauge suction catheter. Neonates in the control group should have been resuscitated at birth with no effort made to clear the trachea of meconium. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data, consulting with a third review author about any disagreements. We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures, including assessment of risk of bias for all studies. Our primary outcomes were: MAS; all‐cause neonatal mortality; and incidence of hypoxic‐ischaemic encephalopathy (HIE). Secondary outcomes included: need for mechanical ventilation; incidence of pulmonary air leaks; culture‐positive sepsis; and persistent pulmonary hypertension. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
