Background
Blood transfusion is administered during many types of surgery, but its efficacy and safety are increasingly questioned. Evaluation of the efficacy of agents, such as desmopressin (DDAVP; 1‐deamino‐8‐D‐arginine‐vasopressin), that may reduce perioperative blood loss is needed. 
Objectives
To examine the evidence for the efficacy of DDAVP in reducing perioperative blood loss and the need for red cell transfusion in people who do not have inherited bleeding disorders. 
Search methods
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (2017, issue 3) in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE (from 1946), Embase (from 1974), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (from 1937), the Transfusion Evidence Library (from 1980), and ongoing trial databases (all searches to 3 April 2017). 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing DDAVP to placebo or an active comparator (e.g. tranexamic acid, aprotinin) before, during, or immediately after surgery or after invasive procedures in adults or children. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We identified 65 completed trials (3874 participants) and four ongoing trials. Of the 65 completed trials, 39 focused on adult cardiac surgery, three on paediatric cardiac surgery, 12 on orthopaedic surgery, two on plastic surgery, and two on vascular surgery; seven studies were conducted in surgery for other conditions. These trials were conducted between 1986 and 2016, and 11 were funded by pharmaceutical companies or by a party with a commercial interest in the outcome of the trial. 
The GRADE quality of evidence was very low to moderate across all outcomes. No trial reported quality of life. 
DDAVP versus placebo or no treatment 
Trial results showed considerable heterogeneity between surgical settings for total volume of red cells transfused (low‐quality evidence) and for total blood loss (very low‐quality evidence) due to large differences in baseline blood loss. Consequently, these outcomes were not pooled and were reported in subgroups. 
