Background
The Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI) is a widely acknowledged prognostic model to estimate preoperatively the probability of developing in‐hospital major adverse cardiac events (MACE) in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. However, the RCRI does not always make accurate predictions, so various studies have investigated whether biomarkers added to or compared with the RCRI could improve this. 
Objectives
Primary: To investigate the added predictive value of biomarkers to the RCRI to preoperatively predict in‐hospital MACE and other adverse outcomes in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. 
Secondary: To investigate the prognostic value of biomarkers compared to the RCRI to preoperatively predict in‐hospital MACE and other adverse outcomes in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. 
Tertiary: To investigate the prognostic value of other prediction models compared to the RCRI to preoperatively predict in‐hospital MACE and other adverse outcomes in patients undergoing noncardiac surgery. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE and Embase from 1 January 1999 (the year that the RCRI was published) until 25 June 2020. We also searched ISI Web of Science and SCOPUS for articles referring to the original RCRI development study in that period. 
Selection criteria
We included studies among adults who underwent noncardiac surgery, reporting on (external) validation of the RCRI and: 
‐ the addition of biomarker(s) to the RCRI; or
‐ the comparison of the predictive accuracy of biomarker(s) to the RCRI; or
‐ the comparison of the predictive accuracy of the RCRI to other models.
Besides MACE, all other adverse outcomes were considered for inclusion.
Data collection and analysis
We developed a data extraction form based on the CHARMS checklist. Independent pairs of authors screened references, extracted data and assessed risk of bias and concerns regarding applicability according to PROBAST. For biomarkers and prediction models that were added or compared to the RCRI in ≥ 3 different articles, we described study characteristics and findings in further detail. We did not apply GRADE as no guidance is available for prognostic model reviews. 
Main results
We screened 3960 records and included 107 articles.  
Over all objectives we rated risk of bias as high in ≥ 1 domain in 90% of included studies, particularly in the analysis domain. Statistical pooling or meta‐analysis of reported results was impossible due to heterogeneity in various aspects: outcomes used, scale by which the biomarker was added/compared to the RCRI, prediction horizons and studied populations.  
