Background
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review published in 2015.
Epilepsy is a chronic neurological disorder, characterised by recurring, unprovoked seizures. Vagus nerve stimulation (VNS) is a neuromodulatory treatment that is used as an adjunctive therapy for treating people with drug‐resistant epilepsy. VNS consists of chronic, intermittent electrical stimulation of the vagus nerve, delivered by a programmable pulse generator. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of VNS when used as add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched the Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS), and MEDLINE Ovid on 3 March 2022. We imposed no language restrictions. CRS Web includes randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials from the Specialised Registers of Cochrane Review Groups, including Epilepsy, CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. 
Selection criteria
We considered parallel or cross‐over, randomised, double‐blind, controlled trials of VNS as add‐on treatment, which compared high‐ and low‐level stimulation (including three different stimulation paradigms: rapid, mild, and slow duty‐cycle), and VNS stimulation versus no stimulation, or a different intervention. We considered adults or children with drug‐resistant focal seizures who were either not eligible for surgery, or who had failed surgery. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard Cochrane methods, assessing the following outcomes:
1. 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency2. Treatment withdrawal (any reason)3. Adverse effects4. Quality of life (QoL)5. Cognition6. Mood 
Main results
We did not identify any new studies for this update, therefore, the conclusions are unchanged. 
We included the five randomised controlled trials (RCT) from the last update, with a total of 439 participants. The baseline phase ranged from 4 to 12 weeks, and double‐blind treatment phases from 12 to 20 weeks. We rated two studies at an overall low risk of bias, and three at an overall unclear risk of bias, due to lack of reported information about study design. Effective blinding of studies of VNS is difficult, due to the frequency of stimulation‐related side effects, such as voice alteration. 
