Background
Hepatic encephalopathy is a common complication of cirrhosis and has high associated morbidity and mortality. The condition is classified as overt if it is clinically apparent or minimal if only evident though psychometric testing. The exact pathogenesis of this syndrome is unknown although ammonia is thought to play a key role. L‐ornithine L‐aspartate has ammonia‐lowering properties and may, therefore, benefit people with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy. 
Objectives
To evaluate the beneficial and harmful effects of L‐ornithine L‐aspartate versus placebo, no intervention, or other active interventions in people with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy. 
Search methods
We undertook electronic searches of The Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS and Science Citation Index Expanded to December 2017 and manual searches of meetings and conference proceedings; checks of bibliographies; and corresponded with investigators and pharmaceutical companies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised clinical trials, irrespective of publication status, language, or blinding. We included participants with cirrhosis who had minimal or overt hepatic encephalopathy or who were at risk for developing hepatic encephalopathy. We compared: L‐ornithine L‐aspartate versus placebo or no intervention; and L‐ornithine L‐aspartate versus other active agents such as non‐absorbable disaccharides, antibiotics, probiotics, or branched‐chain amino acids. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors, working independently, retrieved data from published reports and correspondence with investigators and pharmaceutical companies. The primary outcomes were mortality, hepatic encephalopathy, and serious adverse events. We undertook meta‐analyses and presented the results as risk ratios (RR) and mean differences (MD) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assessed bias control using the Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group domains; we evaluated the risk of publication bias and other small trial effects in regression analyses; conducted subgroup and sensitivity analyses; and performed Trial Sequential Analyses. We determined the quality of the evidence using GRADE. 
