Background
The Seven Countries study in the 1960s showed that populations in the Mediterranean region experienced lower coronary heart disease (CHD) mortality probably as a result of different dietary patterns. Later observational studies have confirmed the benefits of adherence to a Mediterranean dietary pattern on cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors but clinical trial evidence is more limited. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of a Mediterranean‐style diet for the primary and secondary prevention of CVD. 
Search methods
We searched the following electronic databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 9); MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 25 September 2018); Embase (Ovid, 1980 to 2018 week 39); Web of Science Core Collection (Thomson Reuters, 1900 to 26 September 2018); DARE Issue 2 of 4, 2015 (Cochrane Library); HTA Issue 4 of 4, 2016 (Cochrane Library); NHS EED Issue 2 of 4, 2015 (Cochrane Library). We searched trial registers and applied no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in healthy adults and adults at high risk of CVD (primary prevention) and those with established CVD (secondary prevention). Both of the following key components were required to reach our definition of a Mediterranean‐style diet: high monounsaturated/saturated fat ratio (use of olive oil as main cooking ingredient and/or consumption of other traditional foods high in monounsaturated fats such as tree nuts) and a high intake of plant‐based foods, including fruits, vegetables and legumes. Additional components included: low to moderate red wine consumption; high consumption of whole grains and cereals; low consumption of meat and meat products and increased consumption of fish; moderate consumption of milk and dairy products. The intervention could be dietary advice, provision of relevant foods, or both. The comparison group received either no intervention, minimal intervention, usual care or another dietary intervention. Outcomes included clinical events and CVD risk factors. We included only studies with follow‐up periods of three months or more defined as the intervention period plus post intervention follow‐up. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We conducted four main comparisons: 
1. Mediterranean dietary intervention versus no intervention or minimal intervention for primary prevention; 
2. Mediterranean dietary intervention versus another dietary intervention for primary prevention; 
3. Mediterranean dietary intervention versus usual care for secondary prevention;
4. Mediterranean dietary intervention versus another dietary intervention for secondary prevention. 
Main results
In this substantive review update, 30 RCTs (49 papers) (12,461 participants randomised) and seven ongoing trials met our inclusion criteria. The majority of trials contributed to primary prevention: comparisons 1 (nine trials) and 2 (13 trials). Secondary prevention trials were included for comparison 3 (two trials) and comparison 4 (four trials plus an additional two trials that were excluded from the main analyses due to published concerns regarding the reliability of the data). 
Two trials reported on adverse events where these were absent or minor (low‐ to moderate‐quality evidence). No trials reported on costs or health‐related quality of life. 
