Background
Acute respiratory infections (ARIs) are by far the most common reason for prescribing an antibiotic in primary care, even though the majority of ARIs are of viral or non‐severe bacterial aetiology. Unnecessary antibiotic use will, in many cases, not be beneficial to the patients' recovery and expose them to potential side effects. Furthermore, as a causal link exists between antibiotic use and antibiotic resistance, reducing unnecessary antibiotic use is a key factor in controlling this important problem. Antibiotic resistance puts increasing burdens on healthcare services and renders patients at risk of future ineffective treatments, in turn increasing morbidity and mortality from infectious diseases. One strategy aiming to reduce antibiotic use in primary care is the guidance of antibiotic treatment by use of a point‐of‐care biomarker. A point‐of‐care biomarker of infection forms part of the acute phase response to acute tissue injury regardless of the aetiology (infection, trauma and inflammation) and may in the correct clinical context be used as a surrogate marker of infection, possibly assisting the doctor in the clinical management of ARIs. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of point‐of‐care biomarker tests of infection to guide antibiotic treatment in patients presenting with symptoms of acute respiratory infections in primary care settings regardless of age. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (2013, Issue 12), MEDLINE (1946 to January 2014), EMBASE (2010 to January 2014), CINAHL (1981 to January 2014), Web of Science (1955 to January 2014) and LILACS (1982 to January 2014). 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in primary care patients with ARIs that compared use of point‐of‐care biomarkers with standard of care. We included trials that randomised individual patients as well as trials that randomised clusters of patients (cluster‐RCTs). 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data on the following outcomes: i) impact on antibiotic use; ii) duration of and recovery from infection; iii) complications including the number of re‐consultations, hospitalisations and mortality; iv) patient satisfaction. We assessed the risk of bias of all included trials and applied GRADE. We used random‐effects meta‐analyses when feasible. We further analysed results with a high level of heterogeneity in pre‐specified subgroups of individually and cluster‐RCTs. 
Main results
The only point‐of‐care biomarker of infection currently available to primary care identified in this review was C‐reactive protein. We included six trials (3284 participants; 139 children) that evaluated a C‐reactive protein point‐of‐care test. The available information was from trials with a low to moderate risk of bias that address the main objectives of this review. 
