Background
Bariatric (weight loss) surgery for obesity is considered when other treatments have failed. The effects of the available bariatric procedures compared with medical management and with each other are uncertain. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2003 and most recently updated in 2009. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of bariatric surgery for overweight and obesity, including the control of comorbidities. 
Search methods
Studies were obtained from searches of numerous databases, supplemented with searches of reference lists and consultation with experts in obesity research. Date of last search was November 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing surgical interventions with non‐surgical management of obesity or overweight or comparing different surgical procedures. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were extracted by one review author and checked by a second review author. Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias and evaluated overall study quality utilising the GRADE instrument. 
Main results
Twenty‐two trials with 1798 participants were included; sample sizes ranged from 15 to 250. Most studies followed participants for 12, 24 or 36 months; the longest follow‐up was 10 years. The risk of bias across all domains of most trials was uncertain; just one was judged to have adequate allocation concealment. 
All seven RCTs comparing surgery with non‐surgical interventions found benefits of surgery on measures of weight change at one to two years follow‐up. Improvements for some aspects of health‐related quality of life (QoL) (two RCTs) and diabetes (five RCTs) were also found. The overall quality of the evidence was moderate. Five studies reported data on mortality, no deaths occurred. Serious adverse events (SAEs) were reported in four studies and ranged from 0% to 37% in the surgery groups and 0% to 25% in the no surgery groups. Between 2% and 13% of participants required reoperations in the five studies that reported these data. 
