Background
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is a leading cause of death globally. Recently, dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 inhibitors (DPP4i), glucagon‐like peptide‐1 receptor agonists (GLP‐1RA) and sodium‐glucose co‐transporter‐2 inhibitors (SGLT2i) were approved for treating people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Although metformin remains the first‐line pharmacotherapy for people with type 2 diabetes mellitus, a body of evidence has recently emerged indicating that DPP4i, GLP‐1RA and SGLT2i may exert positive effects on patients with known CVD. 
Objectives
To systematically review the available evidence on the benefits and harms of DPP4i, GLP‐1RA, and SGLT2i in people with established CVD, using network meta‐analysis. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and the Conference Proceedings Citation Index on 16 July 2020. We also searched clinical trials registers on 22 August 2020. We did not restrict by language or publication status. 
Selection criteria
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) investigating DPP4i, GLP‐1RA, or SGLT2i that included participants with established CVD. Outcome measures of interest were CVD mortality, fatal and non‐fatal myocardial infarction, fatal and non‐fatal stroke, all‐cause mortality, hospitalisation for heart failure (HF), and safety outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently screened the results of searches to identify eligible studies and extracted study data. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of the evidence. We conducted standard pairwise meta‐analyses and network meta‐analyses by pooling studies that we assessed to be of substantial homogeneity; subgroup and sensitivity analyses were also pursued to explore how study characteristics and potential effect modifiers could affect the robustness of our review findings. We analysed study data using the odds ratios (ORs) and log odds ratios (LORs) with their respective 95% confidence intervals (CIs) and credible intervals (Crls), where appropriate. We also performed narrative synthesis for included studies that were of substantial heterogeneity and that did not report quantitative data in a usable format, in order to discuss their individual findings and relevance to our review scope. 
