Background
Acute otitis media (AOM) is one of the most common childhood illnesses. While many children experience sporadic AOM episodes, an important group suffer from recurrent AOM (rAOM), defined as three or more episodes in six months, or four or more in one year. In this subset of children AOM poses a true burden through frequent episodes of ear pain, general illness, sleepless nights and time lost from nursery or school. Grommets, also called ventilation or tympanostomy tubes, can be offered for rAOM. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of bilateral grommet insertion with or without concurrent adenoidectomy in children with rAOM. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trials Register; CENTRAL; MEDLINE; EMBASE; CINAHL; Web of Science; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 4 December 2017. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing bilateral grommet insertion with or without concurrent adenoidectomy and no ear surgery in children up to age 16 years with rAOM. We planned to apply two main scenarios: grommets as a single surgical intervention and grommets as concurrent treatment with adenoidectomy (i.e. children in both the intervention and comparator groups underwent adenoidectomy). The comparators included active monitoring, antibiotic prophylaxis and placebo medication. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Primary outcomes were: proportion of children who have no AOM recurrences at three to six months follow‐up (intermediate‐term) and persistent tympanic membrane perforation (significant adverse event). Secondary outcomes were: proportion of children who have no AOM recurrences at six to 12 months follow‐up (long‐term); total number of AOM recurrences, disease‐specific and generic health‐related quality of life, presence of middle ear effusion and other adverse events at short‐term, intermediate‐term and long‐term follow‐up. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome; this is indicated in italics. 
Main results
Five RCTs (805 children) with unclear or high risk of bias were included. All studies were conducted prior to the introduction of pneumococcal vaccination in the countries' national immunisation programmes. In none of the trials was adenoidectomy performed concurrently in both groups. 
Grommets versus active monitoring 
Grommets were more effective than active monitoring in terms of:
‐ proportion of children who had no AOM recurrence at six months (one study, 95 children, 46% versus 5%; risk ratio (RR) 9.49, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.38 to 37.80, number needed to treat to benefit (NNTB) 3; low‐quality evidence); 
‐ proportion of children who had no AOM recurrence at 12 months (one study, 200 children, 48% versus 34%; RR 1.41, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.99, NNTB 8; low‐quality evidence); 
‐ number of AOM recurrences at six months (one study, 95 children, mean number of AOM recurrences per child: 0.67 versus 2.17, mean difference (MD) ‐1.50, 95% CI ‐1.99 to ‐1.01; low‐quality evidence); 
‐ number of AOM recurrences at 12 months (one study, 200 children, one‐year AOM incidence rate: 1.15 versus 1.70, incidence rate difference ‐0.55, 95% ‐0.17 to ‐0.93; low‐quality evidence). 
