Background
Obesity and chronic kidney disease (CKD) are highly prevalent worldwide and result in substantial health care costs. Obesity is a predictor of incident CKD and progression to kidney failure. Whether weight loss interventions are safe and effective to impact on disease progression and clinical outcomes, such as death remains unclear. 
Objectives
This review aimed to evaluate the safety and efficacy of intentional weight loss interventions in overweight and obese adults with CKD; including those with end‐stage kidney disease (ESKD) being treated with dialysis, kidney transplantation, or supportive care. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 14 December 2020 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs of more than four weeks duration, reporting on intentional weight loss interventions, in individuals with any stage of CKD, designed to promote weight loss as one of their primary stated goals, in any health care setting. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed study eligibility and extracted data. We applied the Cochrane 'Risk of Bias' tool and used the GRADE process to assess the certainty of evidence. We estimated treatment effects using random‐effects meta‐analysis. Results were expressed as risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous outcomes together with 95% confidence intervals (CI) or mean differences (MD) or standardised mean difference (SMD) for continuous outcomes or in descriptive format when meta‐analysis was not possible. 
Main results
We included 17 RCTs enrolling 988 overweight or obese adults with CKD. The weight loss interventions and comparators across studies varied. We categorised comparisons into three groups: any weight loss intervention versus usual care or control; any weight loss intervention versus dietary intervention; and surgical intervention versus non‐surgical intervention. Methodological quality was varied, with many studies providing insufficient information to accurately judge the risk of bias. Death (any cause), cardiovascular events, successful kidney transplantation, nutritional status, cost effectiveness and economic analysis were not measured in any of the included studies. Across all 17 studies many clinical parameters, patient‐centred outcomes, and adverse events were not measured limiting comparisons for these outcomes. 
In studies comparing any weight loss intervention to usual care or control, weight loss interventions may lead to weight loss or reduction in body weight post intervention (6 studies, 180 participants: MD ‐3.69 kg, 95% CI ‐5.82 to ‐1.57; follow‐up: 5 weeks to 12 months, very low‐certainty evidence). In very low certainty evidence any weight loss intervention had uncertain effects on body mass index (BMI) (4 studies, 100 participants: MD ‐2.18 kg/m², 95% CI ‐4.90 to 0.54), waist circumference (2 studies, 53 participants: MD 0.68 cm, 95% CI ‐7.6 to 6.24), proteinuria (4 studies, 84 participants: 0.29 g/day, 95% CI ‐0.76 to 0.18), systolic (4 studies, 139 participants: ‐3.45 mmHg, 95% CI ‐9.99 to 3.09) and diastolic blood pressure (4 studies, 139 participants: ‐2.02 mmHg, 95% CI ‐3.79 to 0.24). Any weight loss intervention made little or no difference to total cholesterol, high density lipoprotein cholesterol, and inflammation, but may lower low density lipoprotein cholesterol. 
There was little or no difference between any weight loss interventions (lifestyle or pharmacological) compared to dietary‐only weight loss interventions for weight loss, BMI, waist circumference, proteinuria, and systolic blood pressure, however diastolic blood pressure was probably reduced. Furthermore, studies comparing the efficacy of different types of dietary interventions failed to find a specific dietary intervention to be superior for weight loss or a reduction in BMI. 
Surgical interventions probably reduced body weight (1 study, 11 participants: MD ‐29.50 kg, 95% CI ‐36.4 to ‐23.35), BMI (2 studies, 17 participants: MD ‐10.43 kg/m², 95% CI ‐13.58 to ‐7.29), and waist circumference (MD ‐30.00 cm, 95% CI ‐39.93 to ‐20.07) when compared to non‐surgical weight loss interventions after 12 months of follow‐up. Proteinuria and blood pressure were not reported. 
