Background
Several school‐based interventions are effective in improving child diet and physical activity, and preventing excessive weight gain, and tobacco or harmful alcohol use. However, schools are frequently unsuccessful in implementing such evidence‐based interventions. 
Objectives
1. To evaluate the benefits and harms of strategies aiming to improve school implementation of interventions to address student diet, physical activity, tobacco or alcohol use, and obesity. 
2. To evaluate the benefits and harms of strategies to improve intervention implementation on measures of student diet, physical activity, obesity, tobacco use or alcohol use; describe their cost or cost‐effectiveness; and any harms of strategies on schools, school staff or students. 
Search methods
We used standard, extensive Cochrane search methods. The latest search was between 1 September 2016 and 30 April 2021 to identify any relevant trials published since the last published review. 
Selection criteria
We defined 'Implementation' as the use of strategies to adopt and integrate evidence‐based health interventions and to change practice patterns within specific settings. We included any trial (randomised controlled trial (RCT) or non‐randomised controlled trial (non‐RCT)) conducted at any scale, with a parallel control group that compared a strategy to implement policies or practices to address diet, physical activity, overweight or obesity, tobacco or alcohol use by students to 'no intervention', 'usual' practice or a different implementation strategy. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methods. Given the large number of outcomes reported, we selected and included the effects of a single outcome measure for each trial for the primary (implementation) and secondary (student health behaviour and obesity) outcomes using a decision hierarchy. Where possible, we calculated standardised mean differences (SMDs) to account for variable outcome measures with 95% confidence intervals (CI). For RCTs, we conducted meta‐analyses of primary and secondary outcomes using a random‐effects model, or in instances where there were between two and five studies, a fixed‐effect model. The synthesis of the effects for non‐randomised studies followed the 'Synthesis without meta‐analysis' (SWiM) guidelines. 
Main results
We included an additional 11 trials in this update bringing the total number of included studies in the review to 38. Of these, 22 were conducted in the USA. Twenty‐six studies used RCT designs. Seventeen trials tested strategies to implement healthy eating, 12 physical activity and six a combination of risk factors. Just one trial sought to increase the implementation of interventions to delay initiation or reduce the consumption of alcohol. All trials used multiple implementation strategies, the most common being educational materials, educational outreach and educational meetings. 
The overall certainty of evidence was low and ranged from very low to moderate for secondary review outcomes. 
Pooled analyses of RCTs found, relative to a control, the use of implementation strategies may result in a large increase in the implementation of interventions in schools (SMD 1.04, 95% CI 0.74 to 1.34; 22 RCTs, 1917 participants; low‐certainty evidence). For secondary outcomes we found, relative to control, the use of implementation strategies to support intervention implementation may result in a slight improvement on measures of student diet (SMD 0.08, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.15; 11 RCTs, 16,649 participants; low‐certainty evidence) and physical activity (SMD 0.09, 95% CI −0.02 to 0.19; 9 RCTs, 16,389 participants; low‐certainty evidence). The effects on obesity probably suggest little to no difference (SMD −0.02, 95% CI −0.05 to 0.02; 8 RCTs, 18,618 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). The effects on tobacco use are very uncertain (SMD −0.03, 95% CIs −0.23 to 0.18; 3 RCTs, 3635 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). One RCT assessed measures of student alcohol use and found strategies to support implementation may result in a slight increase in use (odds ratio 1.10, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.56; P = 0.60; 2105 participants). Few trials reported the economic evaluations of implementation strategies, the methods of which were heterogeneous and evidence graded as very uncertain. A lack of consistent terminology describing implementation strategies was an important limitation of the review. 
