Background
Despite local therapies, commonly transurethral resection (TUR) followed by adjuvant treatments, non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) has a high rate of recurrence and progression. Intravesical Bacillus Calmette‐Guérin (BCG) has been shown to reduce recurrence and progression in people with NMIBC following TUR, however many people do not respond to treatment, have recurrence shortly after, or cannot tolerate standard‐dose therapy. The potential for synergistic antitumour activity of interferon (IFN)‐alpha (α) and BCG provides some rationale for combination therapy for people who do not tolerate or respond to standard‐dose BCG therapy. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of intravesically administered BCG plus IFN‐α compared with BCG alone for treating non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (Issue 8, 2016), MEDLINE (OvidSP) (1946 to 2016), Embase (OvidSP) (1974 to 2016), ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP) as well as reference lists of retrieved articles and handsearched abstract proceedings of relevant conferences for the past three years. We applied no language restrictions. The date of last search of all databases was 25 August 2016. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and pseudo‐randomised trials assessing intravesically administered BCG plus IFN‐α versus BCG alone in adults of either gender with histologically confirmed Ta and T1 superficial bladder cancer, with or without carcinoma in situ, treated with TUR. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study eligibility, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias of included studies. We used Review Manager 5 for data synthesis and employed the random‐effects model for meta‐analyses. For prespecified outcomes, where we were unable to derive time‐to‐event information (e.g. time‐to‐recurrence), we assessed dichotomous outcomes (e.g. recurrence) instead. We assessed the quality of the evidence for the main comparisons using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included five RCTs involving a total of 1231 participants with NMIBC in this review. Due to poor reporting, the risk of bias in the included studies was often unclear. We assessed the studies under two main comparisons: intravesical BCG plus IFN‐α versus intravesical BCG alone (four RCTs), and intravesical BCG alternating with IFN‐α versus intravesical BCG alone (one RCT). 
