Background
Prophylactic removal of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth is the surgical removal of wisdom teeth in the absence of symptoms and with no evidence of local disease. Impacted wisdom teeth may be associated with pathological changes, such as pericoronitis, root resorption, gum and alveolar bone disease (periodontitis), caries and the development of cysts and tumours. When surgical removal is performed in older people, the risk of postoperative complications, pain and discomfort is increased. Other reasons to justify prophylactic removal of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted third molars have included preventing late lower incisor crowding, preventing damage to adjacent structures such as the second molar or the inferior alveolar nerve, in preparation for orthognathic surgery, in preparation for radiotherapy or during procedures to treat people with trauma to the affected area. Removal of asymptomatic disease‐free wisdom teeth is a common procedure, and researchers must determine whether evidence supports this practice. This review is an update of an review originally published in 2005 and previously updated in 2012 and 2016. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of removal compared with retention (conservative management) of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents and adults. 
Search methods
Cochrane Oral Health’s Information Specialist searched the following databases: Cochrane Oral Health’s Trials Register (to 10 May 2019), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library, 2019, Issue 4), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 10 May 2019), and Embase Ovid (1980 to 10 May 2019). The US National Institutes of Health Trials Registry (ClinicalTrials.gov)and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were searched for ongoing trials. No restrictions were placed on the language or date of publication when searching the electronic databases. . 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), with no restriction on length of follow‐up, comparing removal (or absence) with retention (or presence) of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth in adolescents or adults. We also considered quasi‐RCTs and prospective cohort studies for inclusion if investigators measured outcomes with follow‐up of five years or longer. 
Data collection and analysis
Eight review authors screened search results and assessed the eligibility of studies for inclusion according to the review inclusion criteria. Eight review authors independently and in duplicate conducted the risk of bias assessments. When information was unclear, we contacted the study authors for additional information. 
Main results
This review update includes the same two studies that were identified in our previous version of the review: one RCT with a parallel‐group design, which was conducted in a dental hospital setting in the United Kingdom, and one prospective cohort study, which was conducted in the private sector in the USA. 
Primary outcome  
No eligible studies in this review reported the effects of removal compared with retention of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth on health‐related quality of life 
Secondary outcomes  
We found only low‐ to very low‐certainty evidence of the effects of removal compared with retention of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth for a limited number of secondary outcome measures. 
One prospective cohort study, reporting data from a subgroup of 416 healthy male participants, aged 24 to 84 years, compared the effects of the absence (previous removal or agenesis) against the presence of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth on periodontitis and caries associated with the distal aspect of the adjacent second molar during a follow‐up period of three to over 25 years. Very low‐certainty evidence suggests that the presence of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth may be associated with increased risk of periodontitis affecting the adjacent second molar in the long term. In the same study, which is at serious risk of bias, there is insufficient evidence to demonstrate a difference in caries risk associated with the presence or absence of impacted wisdom teeth. 
One RCT with 164 randomised and 77 analysed adolescent participants compared the effect of extraction with retention of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth on dimensional changes in the dental arch after five years. Participants (55% female) had previously undergone orthodontic treatment and had 'crowded' wisdom teeth. No evidence from this study, which was at high risk of bias, was found to suggest that removal of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth has a clinically significant effect on dimensional changes in the dental arch. 
The included studies did not measure any of our other secondary outcomes: costs, other adverse events associated with retention of asymptomatic disease‐free impacted wisdom teeth (pericoronitis, root resorption, cyst formation, tumour formation, inflammation/infection) and adverse effects associated with their removal (alveolar osteitis/postoperative infection, nerve injury, damage to adjacent teeth during surgery, bleeding, osteonecrosis related to medication/radiotherapy, inflammation/infection). 
