Background
Constraints on resources and time often render treatments for anxiety such as psychological interventions impracticable. While synthetic anxiolytic drugs are effective, they are often burdened with adverse events. Other options which are effective and safe are of considerable interest and a welcome addition to the therapeutic repertoire. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety as reported in rigorous clinical trials of kava extract compared with placebo for treating anxiety. 
Search methods
All publications describing (or which might describe) randomised, double‐blind, placebo‐controlled trials of kava extract for anxiety were sought through electronic searches on EMBASE (1974 to January 2005), MEDLINE (1951 to January 2005), AMED (1985 to January 2005)), CISCOM (inception until August 2002) and Central/CCTR and CCDANCTR (issue 1, 2005). The search terms that were used were kava, kawa, kavain, Piper methysticum and Rauschpfeffer (German common name for Piper methysticum). Additionally, manufacturers of kava preparations and experts on the subject were contacted and asked to contribute published and unpublished material. Hand‐searches of a sample of relevant medical journals (Erfahrungsheilkunde 1996 ‐ 2005, Forsch Komplementärmed Klass Naturheilkd 1994 ‐ 2005, Phytomed 1994 ‐ 2005, Alt Comp Ther 1995 ‐ 2005), conference proceedings (e.g. FACT ‐ Focus on Alternative and Complementary Therapies 1996 ‐ 2005) and our own collection of papers were conducted. No restrictions regarding the language of publication were imposed. 
Selection criteria
To be included studies were required to be randomised, controlled trials (RCTs), i.e. trials with a randomised generation of allocation sequences, and conducted placebo‐controlled and double‐blind, i.e. trials with blinding of patients and care providers. Trials using oral preparations containing kava extract as the only component (mono‐preparation) were considered. Trials using single constituents of kava extract alone, assessing kava extract as one of several active components in a combination preparation or as a part of a combination therapy were excluded. 
