Background
Peroxisome proliferator‐activated receptor gamma (PPAR‐γ) agonists are insulin‐sensitising drugs used for the treatment of insulin resistance. In addition to lowering glucose in diabetes, these drugs may also protect against hyperlipidaemia and arteriosclerosis, which are risk factors for stroke. This is an update of a review first published in January 2014 and subsequently updated in December 2017. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of PPAR‐γ agonists in the secondary prevention of stroke and related vascular events for people with stroke or transient ischaemic attack (TIA). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (30 July 2019), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 7), MEDLINE (1949 to 30 July 2019), Embase (1980 to 30 July 2019), CINAHL (1982 to 30 July 2019), AMED (1985 to 30 July 2019), and 11 Chinese databases (30 July 2019). In an effort to identify further published, unpublished, and ongoing trials, we searched ongoing trials registers, reference lists, and relevant conference proceedings, and contacted authors and pharmaceutical companies. We did not impose any language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating PPAR‐γ agonists versus placebo for the secondary prevention of stroke and related vascular events in people with stroke or TIA, with the outcomes of recurrent stroke, vascular events, and adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened the titles and abstracts of identified records, selected studies for inclusion, extracted eligible data, cross‐checked the data for accuracy, and assessed methodological quality and risk of bias. We evaluated the quality of evidence for each outcome using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We identified five RCTs with 5039 participants; two studies had a low risk of bias for all domains. Four studies evaluated the drug pioglitazone, and one study evaluated rosiglitazone. The participants in different studies were heterogeneous. 
