Background
Individuals dying of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19) may experience distressing symptoms such as breathlessness or delirium. Palliative symptom management can alleviate symptoms and improve the quality of life of patients. Various treatment options such as opioids or breathing techniques have been discussed for use in COVID‐19 patients. However, guidance on symptom management of COVID‐19 patients in palliative care has often been derived from clinical experiences and guidelines for the treatment of patients with other illnesses. An understanding of the effectiveness of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological palliative interventions to manage specific symptoms of COVID‐19 patients is required. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control in individuals with COVID‐19. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register (including Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE (PubMed), Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP), medRxiv); Web of Science Core Collection (Science Citation Index Expanded, Emerging Sources); CINAHL; WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease; and COAP Living Evidence on COVID‐19 to identify completed and ongoing studies without language restrictions until 23 March 2021. 
We screened the reference lists of relevant review articles and current treatment guidelines for further literature. 
Selection criteria
We followed standard Cochrane methodology as outlined in the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. 
We included studies evaluating palliative symptom management for individuals with a confirmed diagnosis of COVID‐19 receiving interventions for palliative symptom control, with no restrictions regarding comorbidities, age, gender, or ethnicity. Interventions comprised pharmacological as well as non‐pharmacological treatment (e.g. acupressure, physical therapy, relaxation, or breathing techniques). We searched for the following types of studies: randomized controlled trials (RCT), quasi‐RCTs, controlled clinical trials, controlled before‐after studies, interrupted time series (with comparison group), prospective cohort studies, retrospective cohort studies, (nested) case‐control studies, and cross‐sectional studies. 
We searched for studies comparing pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control with standard care. 
We excluded studies evaluating palliative interventions for symptoms caused by other terminal illnesses. If studies enrolled populations with or exposed to multiple diseases, we would only include these if the authors provided subgroup data for individuals with COVID‐19. We excluded studies investigating interventions for symptom control in a curative setting, for example patients receiving life‐prolonging therapies such as invasive ventilation.  
Data collection and analysis
We used a modified version of the Newcastle Ottawa Scale for non‐randomized studies of interventions (NRSIs) to assess bias in the included studies. We included the following outcomes: symptom relief (primary outcome); quality of life; symptom burden; satisfaction of patients, caregivers, and relatives; serious adverse events; and grade 3 to 4 adverse events. 
We rated the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. 
As meta‐analysis was not possible, we used tabulation to synthesize the studies and histograms to display the outcomes.  
Main results
Overall, we identified four uncontrolled retrospective cohort studies investigating pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control in hospitalized patients and patients in nursing homes. None of the studies included a comparator. We rated the risk of bias high across all studies. We rated the certainty of the evidence as very low for the primary outcome symptom relief, downgrading mainly for high risk of bias due to confounding and unblinded outcome assessors. 
Pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control 
We identified four uncontrolled retrospective cohort studies (five references) investigating pharmacological interventions for palliative symptom control. Two references used the same register to form their cohorts, and study investigators confirmed a partial overlap of participants. We therefore do not know the exact number of participants, but individual reports included 61 to 2105 participants. Participants received multimodal pharmacological interventions: opioids, neuroleptics, anticholinergics, and benzodiazepines for relieving dyspnea (breathlessness), delirium, anxiety, pain, audible upper airway secretions, respiratory secretions, nausea, cough, and unspecified symptoms.  
