Background
Five‐alpha‐reductase inhibitors (5ARI) are frequently used to treat bothersome lower urinary tract symptoms associated with benign prostatic hyperplasia and male androgenic alopecia. They have potential as chemopreventive agents. 
Objectives
We sought to estimate the effectiveness and harms of 5ARI in preventing prostate cancer.
Search methods
MEDLINE, PreMEDLINE, and the Cochrane Collaboration Library were searched through April 2007 to identify randomized trials. 
Selection criteria
For prostate cancer outcomes we included randomized controlled trials of at least 1 year in duration published after 1984. For non‐prostate cancer outcomes, randomized trials were included if: they were at least 6 months in duration published after 1999. 
Data collection and analysis
The primary outcome was prostate cancer period‐prevalence "for‐cause." "For‐cause" was defined as prostate cancer clinically detected based on symptoms, an abnormal digital rectal exam, or detected as a result of an abnormal prostate specific antigen value. Trials were categorized as long (> 2 year), mid (1 to 2 years) and short (< 1 year) term. 
Main results
Nine trials reported prostate cancer period‐prevalence. Three trials using finasteride lasted four years or longer but only one (the Prostate Cancer Prevention Trial) was specifically designed to assess the impact of 5ARI on prostate cancer period‐prevalence. The mean age of enrollees was 64.6 years, 91% were white, mean PSA was 2.1 ng/mL. For‐cause prostate cancers comprised 54% of all cancers detected. Finasteride was associated with a 26% relative risk reduction in prostate cancers detected for‐cause among all randomized subjects (relative risk 0.74 (95% CI 0.67 to 0.83); absolute risk reduction = 1.4% (3.5% versus 4.9%). Six trials assessed prostate cancers detected overall with a pooled 26% relative reduction favoring 5ARI (relative risk 0.74 (95% CI 0.55 to1.00); 2.9% absolute reduction (6.3% versus 9.2%). Reductions were observed regardless of age, race or family history of prostate cancer but not among men with baseline PSA > 4.0 ng/mL. A greater number of high Gleason score tumors (7 to 10 or 8 to 10) occurred in men on finasteride in the PCPT. Impaired sexual or erectile function or endocrine effects were more common with finasteride than placebo. 
