Background
The use of ultrasound guidance for regional anaesthesia has become popular over the past two decades. However, it is not recognized by all experts as an essential tool, perhaps because it is unclear whether ultrasound reduces the risk of severe neurological complications, and the cost of an ultrasound machine (USD 22,000) is substantially higher than the cost of other tools. This review was published in 2016 and updated in 2019. 
Objectives
To determine whether ultrasound guidance offers any clinical advantage when neuraxial and peripheral nerve blocks are performed in children in terms of decreasing failure rate or the rate of complications. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and two trial registers up to March 2018 together with reference checking to identify additional studies and contacted study authors to obtain additional trial information. 
Selection criteria
We included all parallel randomized controlled trials that evaluated the effects of ultrasound guidance used when a regional blockade technique was performed in children. We included studies performed in children (≤ 18 years of age) undergoing any type of surgical procedure (open or laparoscopic), for which a neuraxial (spinal, epidural, caudal, or combined spinal and epidural) or peripheral nerve block (any peripheral nerve block including fascial (fascia iliaca, transversus abdominis plane, rectus sheath blocks) or perivascular blocks), for surgical anaesthesia (alone or in combination with general anaesthesia) or for postoperative analgesia, was performed with ultrasound guidance. We excluded studies in which regional blockade was used to treat chronic pain. 
We included studies in which ultrasound guidance was used to perform the technique in real time (in‐plane or out‐of‐plane), as pre‐scanning before the procedure or to evaluate the spread of the local anaesthetic so the position of the needle could be adjusted or the block complemented. For control groups, any other technique used to perform the block including landmarks, loss of resistance (air or fluid), click, paraesthesia, nerve stimulator, transarterial, or infiltration was accepted. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Our primary outcomes were failed blocks, pain scores at one hour after surgery, and block duration. Secondary outcomes included time to perform the block, number of needle passes, and minor and major complications. We used GRADE to assess the quality of evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
We included 33 trials with a total of 2293 participants from 0.9 to 12 (mean or median) years of age. Most trials were at low risk of selection, detection, attrition, and reporting bias, however the lack of blinding of participants and personnel caring for participants resulted in 25 trials being judged as at high or unclear risk of bias. We identified five ongoing trials. 
Ultrasound guidance probably reduces the risk of failed block (risk difference (RD) −0.16, 95% confidence interval (CI) −0.25 to −0.07; 22 trials; 1789 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). When ultrasound guidance was used, there was a small to moderate reduction in pain one hour after surgery, equivalent to a reduction of 1.3 points on the revised Bieri FACES pain scale (scale; 0 = no pain, 10 = maximal pain) (standardized mean difference (SMD) −0.41, 95% CI −0.74 to −0.07 (medium effect size); 15 trials; 982 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). Ultrasound guidance increases block duration by the equivalent of 42 minutes (SMD 1.24, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.75; 10 trials; 460 participants; high‐quality evidence). 
There is probably little or no difference in the time taken to perform the block (SMD −0.46, 95% CI −1.06 to 0.13; 9 trials; 680 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). It is uncertain whether the number of needle passes required is reduced with the use of ultrasound guidance (SMD −0.63, 95% CI −1.08 to −0.18; 3 trials; 256 participants; very low‐quality evidence). 
There were no occurrences of major complications in either the intervention or control arms of the trials (cardiac arrest from local anaesthetic toxicity (22 trials; 1576 participants; moderate‐quality evidence); lasting neurological injury (19 trials; 1250 participants; low‐quality evidence)). 
There may be little of no difference in the risk of bloody puncture (RD −0.02, 95% CI −0.05 to 0.00; 13 trials; 896 participants; low‐quality evidence) or transient neurological injury (RD −0.00, 95% CI −0.01 to 0.01; 18 trials; 1230 participants; low‐quality evidence). There were no occurrences of seizure from local anaesthetic toxicity (22 trials; 1576 participants; moderate‐quality evidence) or block infections without neurological injury (18 trials; 1238 participants; low‐quality evidence). 
Authors' conclusions
Ultrasound guidance for regional blockade in children probably decreases the risk of failed block. It increases the duration of the block and probably decreases pain scores at one hour after surgery. There may be little or no difference in the risks of some minor complications. The five ongoing studies may alter the conclusions of the review once published and assessed. 
