Background
Non‐specific low back pain is a common, potentially disabling condition usually treated with self‐care and non‐prescription medication. For chronic low back pain, current guidelines state that exercise therapy may be beneficial. Yoga is a mind‐body exercise sometimes used for non‐specific low back pain. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of yoga for treating chronic non‐specific low back pain, compared to no specific treatment, a minimal intervention (e.g. education), or another active treatment, with a focus on pain, function, and adverse events. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, five other databases and four trials registers to 11 March 2016 without restriction of language or publication status. We screened reference lists and contacted experts in the field to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials of yoga treatment in people with chronic non‐specific low back pain. We included studies comparing yoga to any other intervention or to no intervention. We also included studies comparing yoga as an adjunct to other therapies, versus those other therapies alone. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently screened and selected studies, extracted outcome data, and assessed risk of bias. We contacted study authors to obtain missing or unclear information. We evaluated the overall certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 12 trials (1080 participants) carried out in the USA (seven trials), India (three trials), and the UK (two trials). Studies were unfunded (one trial), funded by a yoga institution (one trial), funded by non‐profit or government sources (seven trials), or did not report on funding (three trials). Most trials used Iyengar, Hatha, or Viniyoga forms of yoga. The trials compared yoga to no intervention or a non‐exercise intervention such as education (seven trials), an exercise intervention (three trials), or both exercise and non‐exercise interventions (two trials). All trials were at high risk of performance and detection bias because participants and providers were not blinded to treatment assignment, and outcomes were self‐assessed. Therefore, we downgraded all outcomes to 'moderate' certainty evidence because of risk of bias, and when there was additional serious risk of bias, unexplained heterogeneity between studies, or the analyses were imprecise, we downgraded the certainty of the evidence further. 
For yoga compared to non‐exercise controls (9 trials; 810 participants), there was low‐certainty evidence that yoga produced small to moderate improvements in back‐related function at three to four months (standardized mean difference (SMD) ‐0.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.66 to ‐0.14; corresponding to a change in the Roland‐Morris Disability Questionnaire of mean difference (MD) ‐2.18, 95% ‐3.60 to ‐0.76), moderate‐certainty evidence for small to moderate improvements at six months (SMD ‐0.44, 95% CI ‐0.66 to ‐0.22; corresponding to a change in the Roland‐Morris Disability Questionnaire of MD ‐2.15, 95% ‐3.23 to ‐1.08), and low‐certainty evidence for small improvements at 12 months (SMD ‐0.26, 95% CI ‐0.46 to ‐0.05; corresponding to a change in the Roland‐Morris Disability Questionnaire of MD ‐1.36, 95% ‐2.41 to ‐0.26). On a 0‐100 scale there was very low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence that yoga was slightly better for pain at three to four months (MD ‐4.55, 95% CI ‐7.04 to ‐2.06), six months (MD ‐7.81, 95% CI ‐13.37 to ‐2.25), and 12 months (MD ‐5.40, 95% CI ‐14.50 to ‐3.70), however we pre‐defined clinically significant changes in pain as 15 points or greater and this threshold was not met. Based on information from six trials, there was moderate‐certainty evidence that the risk of adverse events, primarily increased back pain, was higher in yoga than in non‐exercise controls (risk difference (RD) 5%, 95% CI 2% to 8%). 
