Background
Bowen's disease is the clinical term for in situ squamous cell carcinoma of the skin. Cutaneous lesions present as largely asymptomatic, well‐defined, scaly erythematous patches on sun‐exposed skin. In general, people with Bowen's disease have an excellent prognosis because the disease is typically slow‐growing and responds favourably to treatment. Lesions are persistent and can be progressive, with a small potential (estimated to be 3%) to develop into invasive squamous cell carcinoma. The relative effectiveness of the available treatments is not known for Bowen's disease, and this review attempts to address which is the most effective intervention, with the least side‐effects, for cutaneous Bowen's disease. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of therapeutic interventions for cutaneous Bowen's disease.
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to September 2012: the Cochrane Skin Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL in The Cochrane Library (2012, Issue 9), MEDLINE (from 1946), EMBASE (from 1974), PsycINFO (from 1806), and LILACS (from 1982). We also searched online trials registers. We checked the bibliographies of included and excluded studies and reviews, for further references to relevant randomised controlled trials (RCTs). 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials assessing interventions used in Bowen's disease, preferably histologically proven. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently carried out study selection and assessment of methodological quality. 
Main results
The primary outcome measures were complete clearance of lesions after the first treatment cycle and recurrence rate at 12 months. Our secondary outcomes included the number of lesions that cleared after each treatment cycle, the number of treatment cycles needed to achieve clearance, the recurrence rates at > 12 months, cosmetic outcome, quality of life assessment, and adverse outcomes as reported by both participant and clinician. 
We included 9 studies, with a total of 363 participants. One study demonstrated statistically significantly greater clearance of lesions of Bowen's disease with MAL‐PDT (methyl aminolevulinate with photodynamic therapy) when compared with placebo‐PDT (RR (risk ratio) 1.68, 95% CI (confidence interval) 1.12 to 2.52; n = 148) or cryotherapy (RR 1.17, 95% CI 1.01 to 1.37; n = 215), but there was no significant difference when MAL‐PDT was compared to 5‐FU (5‐fluorouracil). One study demonstrated statistically significantly greater clearance of lesions with ALA‐PDT (5‐aminolevulinic acid with photodynamic therapy) versus 5‐FU (RR 1.83, 95% CI 1.10 to 3.06; n = 66), but no statistically significant difference in recurrence rates at 12 months (RR 0.33, 95% CI 0.07 to 1.53). 
