Background
Depression occurs frequently in individuals with coronary artery disease (CAD) and is associated with a poor prognosis. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of psychological and pharmacological interventions for depression in CAD patients with comorbid depression. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, and CINAHL databases up to August 2020. We also searched three clinical trials registers in September 2021. We examined reference lists of included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and contacted primary authors. We applied no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs investigating psychological and pharmacological interventions for depression in adults with CAD and comorbid depression. Our primary outcomes included depression, mortality, and cardiac events. Secondary outcomes were healthcare costs and utilisation, health‐related quality of life, cardiovascular vital signs, biomarkers of platelet activation, electrocardiogram wave parameters, non‐cardiac adverse events, and pharmacological side effects. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently examined the identified papers for inclusion and extracted data from the included studies. We performed random‐effects model meta‐analyses to compute overall estimates of treatment outcomes. 
Main results
Thirty‐seven trials fulfilled our inclusion criteria. Psychological interventions may result in a reduction in end‐of‐treatment depression symptoms compared to controls (standardised mean difference (SMD) −0.55, 95% confidence interval (CI) −0.92 to −0.19, I2 = 88%; low certainty evidence; 10 trials; n = 1226). No effect was evident on medium‐term depression symptoms one to six months after the end of treatment (SMD −0.20, 95% CI −0.42 to 0.01, I2 = 69%; 7 trials; n = 2654). The evidence for long‐term depression symptoms and depression response was sparse for this comparison. There is low certainty evidence that psychological interventions may result in little to no difference in end‐of‐treatment depression remission (odds ratio (OR) 2.02, 95% CI 0.78 to 5.19, I2 = 87%; low certainty evidence; 3 trials; n = 862). Based on one to two trials per outcome, no beneficial effects on mortality and cardiac events of psychological interventions versus control were consistently found. The evidence was very uncertain for end‐of‐treatment effects on all‐cause mortality, and data were not reported for end‐of‐treatment cardiovascular mortality and occurrence of myocardial infarction for this comparison. 
