Background
An oro‐antral communication is an unnatural opening between the oral cavity and maxillary sinus. When it fails to close spontaneously, it remains patent and is epithelialized to develop into an oro‐antral fistula. Various surgical and non‐surgical techniques have been used for treating the condition. Surgical procedures include flaps, grafts and other techniques like re‐implantation of third molars. Non‐surgical techniques include allogenic materials and xenografts. This is an update of a review first published in May 2016. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of various interventions for the treatment of oro‐antral communications and fistulae due to dental procedures. 
Search methods
Cochrane Oral Health’s Information Specialist searched the following databases: Cochrane Oral Health’s Trials Register (to 23 May 2018), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library, 2018, Issue 4), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 23 May 2018), and Embase Ovid (1980 to 23 May 2018). The US National Institutes of Health Trials Registry (ClinicalTrials.gov) and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform were searched for ongoing trials. No restrictions were placed on the language or date of publication when searching the electronic databases. We also searched the reference lists of included and excluded trials for any randomised controlled trials (RCTs). 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs evaluating any intervention for treating oro‐antral communications or oro‐antral fistulae due to dental procedures. We excluded quasi‐RCTs and cross‐over trials. We excluded studies on participants who had oro‐antral communications, fistulae or both related to Caldwell‐Luc procedure or surgical excision of tumours. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials. Two review authors assessed trial risk of bias and extracted data independently. We estimated risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous data, with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assessed the overall quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
