Background
Epidemiological evidence has suggested a link between beta2‐agonists and increases in asthma mortality. There has been much debate about possible causal links for this association, and whether regular (daily) long‐acting beta2‐agonists are safe. 
Objectives
The aim of this review is to assess the risk of fatal and non‐fatal serious adverse events in trials that randomised patients with chronic asthma to regular formoterol versus placebo or regular short‐acting beta2‐agonists. 
Search methods
We identified trials using the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials. We checked websites of clinical trial registers for unpublished trial data and Food and Drug Administration (FDA) submissions in relation to formoterol. The date of the most recent search was January 2012. 
Selection criteria
We included controlled, parallel design clinical trials on patients of any age and severity of asthma if they randomised patients to treatment with regular formoterol and were of at least 12 weeks' duration. Concomitant use of inhaled corticosteroids was allowed, as long as this was not part of the randomised treatment regimen. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected trials for inclusion in the review. One author extracted outcome data and the second author checked them. We sought unpublished data on mortality and serious adverse events. 
Main results
The review includes 22 studies (8032 participants) comparing regular formoterol to placebo and salbutamol. Non‐fatal serious adverse event data could be obtained for all participants from published studies comparing formoterol and placebo but only 80% of those comparing formoterol with salbutamol or terbutaline. 
Three deaths occurred on regular formoterol and none on placebo; this difference was not statistically significant. It was not possible to assess disease‐specific mortality in view of the small number of deaths. Non‐fatal serious adverse events were significantly increased when regular formoterol was compared with placebo (Peto odds ratio (OR) 1.57; 95% CI 1.06 to 2.31). One extra serious adverse event occurred over 16 weeks for every 149 people treated with regular formoterol (95% CI 66 to 1407 people). The increase was larger in children than in adults, but the impact of age was not statistically significant. Data submitted to the FDA indicate that the increase in asthma‐related serious adverse events remained significant in patients taking regular formoterol who were also on inhaled corticosteroids. 
No significant increase in fatal or non‐fatal serious adverse events was found when regular formoterol was compared with regular salbutamol or terbutaline. 
Authors' conclusions
In comparison with placebo, we have found an increased risk of serious adverse events with regular formoterol, and this does not appear to be abolished in patients taking inhaled corticosteroids. The effect on serious adverse events of regular formoterol in children was greater than the effect in adults, but the difference between age groups was not significant. 
Data on all‐cause serious adverse events should be more fully reported in journal articles, and not combined with all severities of adverse events or limited to those events that are thought by the investigator to be drug‐related. 
