Background
Bladder pain syndrome (BPS), which includes the condition of interstitial cystitis, is a poorly understood clinical condition for which patients present with varying symptoms. Management of BPS is challenging for both patients and practitioners. At present, there is no universally accepted diagnosis and diverse causes have been proposed. This is reflected in wide‐ranging treatment options, used alone or in combination, with limited evidence. A network meta‐analysis (NMA) simultaneously comparing multiple treatments may help to determine the best treatment options for patients with BPS. 
Objectives
To conduct a network meta‐analysis to assess the effects of interventions for treating people with symptoms of bladder pain syndrome (BPS). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Specialised Register, which contains trials identified from the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, in the Cochrane Library), MEDLINE, MEDLINE In‐Process, MEDLINE Epub Ahead of Print, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (WHO ICTRP) and handsearched journals and conference proceedings (searched 11 May 2018) and the reference lists of relevant articles. We conducted a further search on 5 June 2019, which yielded four small studies that were screened for eligibility but were not incorporated into the review. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs of interventions for treating adults with BPS. All types of interventions (including conservative, pharmacological and surgical) were eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
We assessed the risk of bias of included studies using Cochrane's 'Risk of bias' tool. Primary outcomes were the number of people cured or improved, pain, frequency and nocturia. For each outcome, random‐effects NMA models were fitted using WinBUGS 1.4. We monitored median odds ratios (ORs) for binary outcomes and mean differences (MDs) for continuous outcomes with 95% credible intervals (Crls). We compared results of the NMA with direct evidence from pairwise meta‐analysis of head‐to‐head trials. We used the CINeMA tool to assess the certainty of evidence for selected treatment categories. 
