Background
Spontaneous or secondary intraventricular hemorrhage is a marker of poor prognosis for hemorrhagic stroke. It can cause hydrocephalus and require ventricular shunt placement, result in permanent neurological deficits or death. Fibrinolytic agents injected into the ventricular system could dissolve blood clots, increase the clearance of blood from the ventricles and hence improve outcome. 
Objectives
To assess the clinical efficacy and safety of thrombolytic agents administered intraventricularly in the management of intraventricular hemorrhage in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched February 2002). In addition, we searched the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Current Contents, and International Pharmacy Abstracts to 2001. We handsearched several neurosurgery journals and the references list of articles identified. 
Selection criteria
Randomized unconfounded studies comparing intraventricular fibrinolytic therapy to placebo or open control for the management of intraventricular hemorrhage in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently assessed all identified trials. Clinically significant information related to patient population, efficacy and safety were extracted and summarized. 
Main results
A total of 10 studies were identified by our search strategy. Eight of them were excluded because of case series designs or retrospective control group. One quasi‐randomized trial used alternate allocation and was excluded. Only one report met the review criteria for randomization. The randomized trial reported good outcome but has important design flaws resulting in a biased control group and therefore was excluded. 
Authors' conclusions
There is anecdotal evidence suggesting that the intraventricular administration of fibrinolytic agents in intraventricular hemorrhage maybe of therapeutic value and safe. Thus far, there are no randomized trials of sufficient size and quality to evaluate the safety and efficacy of this treatment modality. 
