Background
Clinical management for unexplained infertility includes expectant management as well as active treatments, including ovarian stimulation (OS), intrauterine insemination (IUI), OS‐IUI,  and in vitro fertilisation (IVF) with or without intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). 
Existing systematic reviews have conducted head‐to‐head comparisons of these interventions using pairwise meta‐analyses. As this approach allows only the comparison of two interventions at a time and is contingent on the availability of appropriate primary evaluative studies, it is difficult to identify the best intervention in terms of effectiveness and safety. Network meta‐analysis compares multiple treatments simultaneously by using both direct and indirect evidence and provides a hierarchy of these treatments, which can potentially better inform clinical decision‐making. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of different approaches to clinical management (expectant management, OS, IUI, OS‐IUI, and IVF/ICSI) in couples with unexplained infertility. 
Search methods
We performed a systematic review and network meta‐analysis of relevant randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We searched electronic databases including the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Specialised Register of Controlled Trials, the Cochrane Central Register of Studies Online, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and CINAHL, up to 6 September 2018, as well as reference lists, to identify eligible studies. We also searched trial registers for ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs comparing at least two of the following clinical management options in couples with unexplained infertility: expectant management, OS, IUI, OS‐IUI, and IVF (or combined with ICSI). 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts identified by the search strategy. We obtained the full texts of potentially eligible studies to assess eligibility and extracted data using standardised forms. The primary effectiveness outcome was a composite of cumulative live birth or ongoing pregnancy, and the primary safety outcome was multiple pregnancy. We performed a network meta‐analysis within a random‐effects multi‐variate meta‐analysis model. We presented treatment effects by using odds ratios (ORs) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For the network meta‐analysis, we used Confidence in Network Meta‐analysis (CINeMA) to evaluate the overall certainty of evidence. 
Main results
We included 27 RCTs (4349 couples) in this systematic review and 24 RCTs (3983 couples) in a subsequent network meta‐analysis. Overall, the certainty of evidence was low to moderate: the main limitations were imprecision and/or heterogeneity. 
