Background
Dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB) was first described in 1983, and clinical diagnostic criteria were published in the early to mid 1990s. It has been suggested DLB may account for up to 15‐25% of cases of dementia among people aged over 65, although autopsy suggests much lower rates. Characteristic symptoms are dementia, marked fluctuation of cognitive ability, early and persistent visual hallucinations and spontaneous motor features of Parkinsonism. Falls, syncope, transient disturbances of consciousness, neuroleptic sensitivity, and hallucinations in other modalities are also common. This combination of features can be difficult to manage as neuroleptics can make the Parkinsonian and cognitive symptoms worse. There is evidence to suggest that the cholinesterase inhibitors may be beneficial in this disorder; small case series indicate that cholinesterase inhibitors are safe, and will improve both cognitive deficits and neuropsychiatric symptoms in DLB. 
Objectives
To assess the use of cholinesterase inhibitors in DLB.
Search methods
The trials were identified from a search of the Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group on 25 February 2002 using the terms 'Lewy body', 'Lewy bodies' and 'Lewy'. This register contains records from all major health care databases and trial databases and is updated regularly. 
Selection criteria
Randomized, double‐blindtrials in which treatment with cholinesterase inhibitors was administered and compared with alternative interventions in patients with DLB are included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers (TP, RW) independently assessed quality of trials according to criteria described in the Cochrane Collaboration Handbook. Each drug was to be examined separately, and together as a group. We also analysed data by time to outcome measurement; short‐term (up to one month), medium term (one month up to six months) and long term (Six months and longer). 
The primary outcome measures of interest are in the following areas:neuropsychiatric features. i.e. psychiatric symptoms and behavioural disturbances, cognitive function, activities of daily living, global assessments, quality of life, including maintaining role and social functioning, effect on carers, safety as measured by incidence of adverse events and side effects, acceptability of treatment as measured by withdrawal from trials, and by patient/carer assessment, institutionalization and death. 
