Ten studies (3340 participants) were included in the review. Seven studies compared aripiprazole monotherapy versus placebo (2239 participants); two of these included a third comparison arm—one study used lithium (485 participants) and the other used haloperidol (480 participants). Two studies compared aripiprazole as an adjunctive treatment to valproate or lithium versus placebo as an adjunctive treatment (754 participants), and one study compared aripiprazole versus haloperidol (347 participants). The overall risk of bias was unclear. A high dropout rate from most trials (> 20% for each intervention in eight of the trials) may have affected the estimates of relative efficacy. Evidence shows that aripiprazole was more effective than placebo in reducing manic symptoms in adults and children/adolescents at three and four weeks but not at six weeks (Young Mania Rating Scale (YMRS); mean difference (MD) at three weeks (random effects) ‐3.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐5.82 to ‐2.05; six studies; N = 1819, moderate quality evidence) ‐ a modest difference. Aripiprazole was compared with other drug treatments in three studies in adults—lithium was used in one study and haloperidol in two studies. No statistically significant differences between aripiprazole and other drug treatments in reducing manic symptoms were noted at three weeks (YMRS MD at three weeks (random effects) 0.07, 95% CI ‐1.24 to 1.37; three studies; N = 972, moderate quality evidence) or at any other time point up to and including 12 weeks. Compared with placebo, aripiprazole caused more movement disorders, as measured on the Simpson Angus Scale (SAS), on the Barnes Akathisia Scale (BAS) and by participant‐reported akathisia (high quality evidence), with more people requiring treatment with anticholinergic medication (risk ratios (random effects) 3.28, 95% CI 1.82 to 5.91; two studies; N = 730, high quality evidence). Aripiprazole also led to more gastrointestinal disturbances (nausea (high quality evidence), and constipation) and caused more children/adolescents to have a prolactin level that fell below the lower limit of normal. Significant heterogeneity was present in the meta‐analysis of movement disorders associated with aripiprazole and other treatments and was most likely due to the different side effect profiles of lithium and haloperidol. At the three‐week time point, meta‐analysis was not possible because of lack of data; however, at 12 weeks, haloperidol resulted in significantly more movement disorders than aripiprazole, as measured on the SAS, the BAS and the Abnormal Involuntary Movement Scale (AIMS) and by participant‐reported akathisia. By 12 weeks, investigators reported no difference between aripiprazole and lithium (SAS, BAS, AIMS), except in terms of participant‐reported akathisia (RR 2.97, 95% CI 1.37 to 6.43; one study; N = 313). 