Background
Nocturia is the bothersome symptom of awakening one or more times per night to void. Desmopressin is a commonly used medication for treating nocturia. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of desmopressin as compared to other interventions in the treatment of nocturia in men. 
Search methods
We performed a comprehensive search of the medical literature with no restrictions on the language of publication or publication status. The date of the latest search of all databases was August 2017. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised or quasi‐randomised trials. Inclusion criteria were men with nocturia defined as one or more voids per night. We excluded trials of children or adults with primary or secondary enuresis or underlying distinct disorders. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently classified studies and abstracted data from the included studies. We performed statistical analyses using a random‐effects model and interpreted data according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. We compared desmopressin with placebo, behavioural modification, alpha‐blockers, in combination with alpha‐blockers against alpha‐blockers alone, and in combination with alpha‐blocker against alpha‐blocker plus anticholinergic. Our outcomes were mean number of voids, quality of life, adverse events, and sleep disturbance. 
Main results
We included 14 studies with 2966 randomised men across five comparisons. The studies recruited from urology outpatients clinics and defined nocturia as two or more voids per night. The average age of study participants ranged between 57 and 74 years. 
Desmopressin versus placebo: based on short‐term follow‐up (up to three months), desmopressin may result in a small, possibly unimportant effect on the number of nocturnal voids (mean difference (MD) ‐0.61, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.96 to ‐0.27; low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain about the effect of desmopressin on major adverse events at short‐term follow‐up (risk ratio (RR) 0.97, 95% CI 0.10 to 9.03; very low‐quality evidence). For intermediate‐term follow‐up (three to 12 months), desmopressin may reduce the number of nocturnal voids in an appreciable number of men (MD ‐0.85, 95% CI ‐1.17 to ‐0.53; low‐quality evidence). There was one major adverse event in the desmopressin group at intermediate‐term follow‐up in one trial of 115 men (RR 3.05, 95% CI 0.13 to 73.39 for both outcomes; low‐quality evidence). We found no evidence on quality of life. Subgroup analyses suggest a larger effect on nocturnal voiding with oral, higher‐dose formulations of desmopressin and in men with documented nocturnal polyuria. 
Desmopressin versus behaviour modification: there were no data regarding the effect on the number of nocturnal voids, quality of life, or major adverse events. 
Desmopressin versus alpha‐blocker: based on short‐term follow‐up in one small trial, desmopressin likely has a similar effect on the number of nocturnal voids (MD 0.30, 95% CI ‐0.20 to 0.80; moderate‐quality evidence) and quality of life measured on the International Prostate Symptom Score (IPSS) scale (MD 0.00, 95% CI ‐0.35 to 0.35; moderate‐quality evidence). There were no major adverse events in either group. 
