Background
Millions of people worldwide suffer from hepatitis C, which can lead to severe liver disease, liver cancer, and death. Direct‐acting antivirals (DAAs), e.g. sofosbuvir, are relatively new and expensive interventions for chronic hepatitis C, and preliminary results suggest that DAAs may eradicate hepatitis C virus (HCV) from the blood (sustained virological response). Sustained virological response (SVR) is used by investigators and regulatory agencies as a surrogate outcome for morbidity and mortality, based solely on observational evidence. However, there have been no randomised trials that have validated that usage. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of DAAs in people with chronic HCV.
Search methods
We searched for all published and unpublished trials in The Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded, LILACS, and BIOSIS; the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database (CBM), China Network Knowledge Information (CNKI), the Chinese Science Journal Database (VIP), Google Scholar, The Turning Research into Practice (TRIP) Database, ClinicalTrials.gov, European Medicines Agency (EMA) (www.ema.europa.eu/ema/), WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (www.who.int/ictrp), the Food and Drug Administration (FDA) (www.fda.gov), and pharmaceutical company sources for ongoing or unpublished trials. Searches were last run in October 2016. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials comparing DAAs versus no intervention or placebo, alone or with co‐interventions, in adults with chronic HCV. We included trials irrespective of publication type, publication status, and language. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Our primary outcomes were hepatitis C‐related morbidity, serious adverse events, and health‐related quality of life. Our secondary outcomes were all‐cause mortality, ascites, variceal bleeding, hepato‐renal syndrome, hepatic encephalopathy, hepatocellular carcinoma, non‐serious adverse events (each reported separately), and SVR. We systematically assessed risks of bias, performed Trial Sequential Analysis, and followed an eight‐step procedure to assess thresholds for statistical and clinical significance. We evaluated the overall quality of the evidence, using GRADE. 
Main results
We included a total of 138 trials randomising a total of 25,232 participants. The trials were generally short‐term trials and designed primarily to assess the effect of treatment on SVR. The trials evaluated 51 different DAAs. Of these, 128 trials employed matching placebo in the control group. All included trials were at high risk of bias. Eighty‐four trials involved DAAs on the market or under development (13,466 participants). Fifty‐seven trials administered DAAs that were discontinued or withdrawn from the market. Study populations were treatment‐naive in 95 trials, had been exposed to treatment in 17 trials, and comprised both treatment‐naive and treatment‐experienced individuals in 24 trials. The HCV genotypes were genotype 1 (119 trials), genotype 2 (eight trials), genotype 3 (six trials), genotype 4 (nine trials), and genotype 6 (one trial). We identified two ongoing trials. 
We could not reliably determine the effect of DAAs on the market or under development on our primary outcome of hepatitis C‐related morbidity or all‐cause mortality. There were no data on hepatitis C‐related morbidity and only limited data on mortality from 11 trials (DAA 15/2377 (0.63%) versus control 1/617 (0.16%); OR 3.72, 95% CI 0.53 to 26.18, very low‐quality evidence). We did not perform Trial Sequential Analysis on this outcome. 
