Background
The primary manifestation of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19) is respiratory insufficiency that can also be related to diffuse pulmonary microthrombosis and thromboembolic events, such as pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis, or arterial thrombosis. People with COVID‐19 who develop thromboembolism have a worse prognosis. 
Anticoagulants such as heparinoids (heparins or pentasaccharides), vitamin K antagonists and direct anticoagulants are used for the prevention and treatment of venous or arterial thromboembolism. Besides their anticoagulant properties, heparinoids have an additional anti‐inflammatory potential. However, the benefit of anticoagulants for people with COVID‐19 is still under debate. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of anticoagulants versus active comparator, placebo or no intervention in people hospitalised with COVID‐19. 
Search methods
We searched the CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS and IBECS databases, the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register and medRxiv preprint database from their inception to 14 April 2021. We also checked the reference lists of any relevant systematic reviews identified, and contacted specialists in the field for additional references to trials. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies were randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs, cluster‐RCTs and cohort studies that compared prophylactic anticoagulants versus active comparator, placebo or no intervention for the management of people hospitalised with COVID‐19. We excluded studies without a comparator group and with a retrospective design (all previously included studies) as we were able to include better study designs. Primary outcomes were all‐cause mortality and necessity for additional respiratory support. Secondary outcomes were mortality related to COVID‐19, deep vein thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, major bleeding, adverse events, length of hospital stay and quality of life. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures. We used Cochrane RoB 1 to assess the risk of bias for RCTs, ROBINS‐I to assess risk of bias for non‐randomised studies (NRS) and GRADE to assess the certainty of evidence. We meta‐analysed data when appropriate. 
Main results
We included seven studies (16,185 participants) with participants hospitalised with COVID‐19, in either intensive care units, hospital wards or emergency departments. Studies were from Brazil (2), Iran (1), Italy (1), and the USA (1), and two involved more than country. The mean age of participants was 55 to 68 years and the follow‐up period ranged from 15 to 90 days. The studies assessed the effects of heparinoids, direct anticoagulants or vitamin K antagonists, and reported sparse data or did not report some of our outcomes of interest: necessity for additional respiratory support, mortality related to COVID‐19, and quality of life. 
