Background
The in vitro fertilization (IVF) technique is commonly used and is the only treatment option for a proportion of infertile couples. To obtain better outcomes of IVF, it is important to enhance embryo quality by optimizing IVF techniques. In IVF procedures, oocytes and sperm are routinely co‐incubated overnight, which may expose oocytes and zygotes to suboptimal culture conditions with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS) produced by sperm in this long term culture. As an attempt to avoid possible detrimental effects on the oocytes from long exposure to sperm, the brief co‐incubation insemination protocol was developed. However, despite a number of studies in this area, it is unclear whether brief co‐incubation improves the IVF outcomes compared with the standard overnight insemination protocol. 
Objectives
This Cochrane review aimed to determine whether brief co‐incubation of sperm and oocytes improves outcomes compared with the standard overnight insemination protocol for women undergoing IVF. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Register (14 June 2012), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2012, 1st quarter), MEDLINE (1948 to 14 June 2012), EMBASE (1989 to 14 June 2012), PsycINFO (1806 to 14 June 2012) and CINAHL (1980 to 26 July 2012). In addition, we searched trials registers, reference lists of articles, conference proceedings (American Society for Reproductive Medicine (ASRM), European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology (ESHRE)) and contacted experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing brief co‐incubation of gametes with the standard overnight insemination protocol. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion and trial quality, and extracted data. Disagreements were resolved by discussion with a third author. Statistical analysis was performed using RevMan software. 
