Background
A range of health workforce strategies are needed to address health service demands in low‐, middle‐ and high‐income countries. Non‐medical prescribing involves nurses, pharmacists, allied health professionals, and physician assistants substituting for doctors in a prescribing role, and this is one approach to improve access to medicines. 
Objectives
To assess clinical, patient‐reported, and resource use outcomes of non‐medical prescribing for managing acute and chronic health conditions in primary and secondary care settings compared with medical prescribing (usual care). 
Search methods
We searched databases including CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and five other databases on 19 July 2016. We also searched the grey literature and handsearched bibliographies of relevant papers and publications. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster‐RCTs, controlled before‐and‐after (CBA) studies (with at least two intervention and two control sites) and interrupted time series analysis (with at least three observations before and after the intervention) comparing: 1. non‐medical prescribing versus medical prescribing in acute care; 2. non‐medical prescribing versus medical prescribing in chronic care; 3. non‐medical prescribing versus medical prescribing in secondary care; 4 non‐medical prescribing versus medical prescribing in primary care; 5. comparisons between different non‐medical prescriber groups; and 6. non‐medical healthcare providers with formal prescribing training versus those without formal prescribing training. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently reviewed studies for inclusion, extracted data, and assessed study quality with discrepancies resolved by discussion. Two review authors independently assessed risk of bias for the included studies according to EPOC criteria. We undertook meta‐analyses using the fixed‐effect model where studies were examining the same treatment effect and to account for small sample sizes. We compared outcomes to a random‐effects model where clinical or statistical heterogeneity existed. 
Main results
We included 46 studies (37,337 participants); non‐medical prescribing was undertaken by nurses in 26 studies and pharmacists in 20 studies. In 45 studies non‐medical prescribing as a component of care was compared with usual care medical prescribing. A further study compared nurse prescribing supported by guidelines with usual nurse prescribing care. No studies were found with non‐medical prescribing being undertaken by other health professionals. The education requirement for non‐medical prescribing varied with country and location. 
A meta‐analysis of surrogate markers of chronic disease (systolic blood pressure, glycated haemoglobin, and low‐density lipoprotein) showed positive intervention group effects. There was a moderate‐certainty of evidence for studies of blood pressure at 12 months (mean difference (MD) ‐5.31 mmHg, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐6.46 to ‐4.16; 12 studies, 4229 participants) and low‐density lipoprotein (MD ‐0.21, 95% CI ‐0.29 to ‐0.14; 7 studies, 1469 participants); we downgraded the certainty of evidence from high due to considerations of serious inconsistency (considerable heterogeneity), multifaceted interventions, and variable prescribing autonomy. A high‐certainty of evidence existed for comparative studies of glycated haemoglobin management at 12 months (MD ‐0.62, 95% CI ‐0.85 to ‐0.38; 6 studies, 775 participants). While there appeared little difference in medication adherence across studies, a meta‐analysis of continuous outcome data from four studies showed an effect favouring patient adherence in the non‐medical prescribing group (MD 0.15, 95% CI 0.00 to 0.30; 4 studies, 700 participants). We downgraded the certainty of evidence for adherence to moderate due to the serious risk of performance bias. While little difference was seen in patient‐related adverse events between treatment groups, we downgraded the certainty of evidence to low due to indirectness, as the range of adverse events may not be related to the intervention and selective reporting failed to adequately report adverse events in many studies. 
