Background
Haemolytic uraemic syndrome (HUS) is a common cause of acquired kidney failure in children and rarely in adults. The most important risk factor for development of HUS is a gastrointestinal infection by Shiga toxin‐producing Escherichia coli (STEC). This review addressed the interventions aimed at secondary prevention of HUS in patients with diarrhoea who were infected with a bacteria that increase the risk of HUS. 
Objectives
Our objective was to evaluate evidence regarding secondary preventative strategies for HUS associated with STEC infections. In doing so, we sought to assess the effectiveness and safety of interventions as well as their potential to impact the morbidity and death associated with this condition. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 12 November 2020 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
Studies were considered based on the methods, participants, and research goals. Only randomised controlled trials were considered eligible for inclusion. The participants of the studies were paediatric and adult patients with diarrhoeal illnesses due to STEC. The primary outcome of interest was incidence of HUS. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures as recommended by Cochrane. Summary estimates of effect were obtained using a random‐effects model, and results were expressed as risk ratios (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes. Confidence in the evidence was assessed using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. 
Main results
We identified four studies (536 participants) for inclusion that investigated four different interventions including antibiotics (trimethoprim‐sulfamethoxazole), anti‐Shiga toxin antibody‐containing bovine colostrum, Shiga toxin binding agent (Synsorb Pk: a silicon dioxide‐based agent), and a monoclonal antibody against Shiga toxin (urtoxazumab). The overall risk of bias was unclear for selection, performance and detection bias and low for attrition, reporting and other sources of bias. 
It was uncertain if trimethoprim‐sulfamethoxazole reduced the incidence of HUS compared to no treatment (47 participants: RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.11‐2.81, very low certainty evidence). Adverse events relative to this review, need for acute dialysis, neurological complication and death were not reported. 
There were no incidences of HUS in either the bovine colostrum group or the placebo group. It was uncertain if bovine colostrum caused more adverse events (27 participants: RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.42 to 2.03; very low certainty evidence). The need for acute dialysis, neurological complications or death were not reported. 
It is uncertain whether Synsorb Pk reduces the incidence of HUS compared to placebo (353 participants: RR 0.93, 95% CI 0.39 to 2.22; very low certainty evidence). Adverse events relevant to this review, need for acute dialysis, neurological complications or death were not reported. 
One study compared two doses of urtoxazumab (3.0 mg/kg and 1.0 mg/kg) to placebo. It is uncertain if either 3.0 mg/kg urtoxazumab (71 participants: RR 0.34, 95% CI 0.01 to 8.14) or 1.0 mg/kg urtoxazumab (74 participants: RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.13) reduced the incidence of HUS compared to placebo (very low certainty evidence). Low certainty evidence showed there may be little or no difference in the number of treatment‐emergent adverse events with either 3.0 mg/kg urtoxazumab (71 participants: RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.84 to 1.18) or 1.0 mg/kg urtoxazumab (74 participants: RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.13) compared to placebo. There were 25 serious adverse events reported in 18 patients: 10 in the placebo group, and 9 and 6 serious adverse events in the 1.0 mg/kg and 3.0 mg/kg urtoxazumab groups, respectively. It is unclear how many patients experienced these adverse events in each group, and how many patients experienced more than one event. It is uncertain if either dose of urtoxazumab increased the risk of neurological complications or death (very low certainty evidence). Need for acute dialysis was not reported. 
