Background
Brain arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are the single most common cause of intracerebral haemorrhage in young adults. Brain AVMs also cause seizure(s) and focal neurological deficits (in the absence of haemorrhage, migraine or an epileptic seizure); approximately one‐fifth are incidental discoveries. Various interventions are used in an attempt to eradicate brain AVMs: neurosurgical excision, stereotactic radiosurgery, endovascular embolization, and staged combinations of these interventions. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2006, and last updated in 2009. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of the different interventions, alone or in combination, for treating brain AVMs in adults compared against either each other, or conservative management, in randomized controlled trials (RCTs). 
Search methods
The Cochrane Stroke Group Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched 7 January 2019), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 1) in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE Ovid (1980 to 14 January 2019), and Embase OVID (1980 to 14 January 2019). We searched international registers of clinical trials, the contents pages of relevant journals, and bibliographies of relevant articles (November 2009). We also contacted manufacturers of interventional treatments for brain AVMs (March 2005). 
Selection criteria
We sought RCTs of any intervention for brain AVMs (used alone or in combination), compared against each other or against conservative management, with relevant clinical outcome measures. 
Data collection and analysis
One author screened the results of the updated searches for potentially eligible RCTs for this updated review. Both authors independently read the potentially eligible RCTs in full and confirmed their inclusion according to the inclusion criteria. We resolved disagreement by discussion. We assessed the risk of bias in included studies and applied GRADE. 
