Background
Work disability has serious consequences for individuals as well as society. It is possible to facilitate resumption of work by reducing barriers to return to work (RTW) and promoting collaboration with key stakeholders. This review was first published in 2009 and has now been updated to include studies published up to February 2015. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of workplace interventions in preventing work disability among sick‐listed workers, when compared to usual care or clinical interventions. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Work Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, and PsycINFO databases on 2 February 2015. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of workplace interventions that aimed to improve RTW for disabled workers. We only included studies where RTW or conversely sickness absence was reported as a continuous outcome. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias of the studies. We performed meta‐analysis where possible, and we assessed the quality of evidence according to GRADE criteria. We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. 
Main results
We included 14 RCTs with 1897 workers. Eight studies included workers with musculoskeletal disorders, five workers with mental health problems, and one workers with cancer. We judged six studies to have low risk of bias for the outcome sickness absence. 
Workplace interventions significantly improved time until first RTW compared to usual care, moderate‐quality evidence (hazard ratio (HR) 1.55, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.20 to 2.01). Workplace interventions did not considerably reduce time to lasting RTW compared to usual care, very low‐quality evidence (HR 1.07, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.57). The effect on cumulative duration of sickness absence showed a mean difference of ‐33.33 (95% CI ‐49.54 to ‐17.12), favouring the workplace intervention, high‐quality evidence. One study assessed recurrences of sick leave, and favoured usual care, moderate‐quality evidence (HR 0.42, 95% CI 0.21 to 0.82). Overall, the effectiveness of workplace interventions on work disability showed varying results. 
