Background
Cochrane systematic reviews show that systemic postnatal corticosteroids reduce the risk of bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD) in preterm infants. However, corticosteroids have also been associated with an increased risk of neurodevelopmental impairment. It is unknown whether these beneficial and adverse effects are modulated by differences in corticosteroid treatment regimens. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different corticosteroid treatment regimens on mortality, pulmonary morbidity, and neurodevelopmental outcome in very low birth weight (VLBW) infants. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review group to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2) in the Cochrane Library (searched 21 March 2016), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 21 March 2016), Embase (1980 to 21 March 2016), and CINAHL (1982 to 21 March 2016). We also searched clinical trials' databases, conference proceedings, and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing two or more different treatment regimens of systemic postnatal corticosteroids in preterm infants at risk for BPD, as defined by the original trialists. Studies investigating one treatment regimen of systemic corticosteroids to a placebo or studies using inhalation corticosteroids were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed eligibility and quality of trials and extracted data on study design, participant characteristics and the relevant outcomes. We asked the original investigators to verify if data extraction was correct and, if possible, to provide any missing data. The primary outcomes to be assessed were: mortality at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age (PMA) or at hospital discharge; BPD defined as oxygen dependency at 36 weeks' PMA; long‐term neurodevelopmental sequelae, including cerebral palsy, measured by the Bayley Mental Developmental Index (MDI); and blindness or poor vision. Secondary outcomes were: duration of mechanical ventilation and failure to extubate at day 3 and 7 after initiating therapy; rescue treatment with corticosteroids outside the study period; and the incidence of hypertension, sepsis and hyperglycemia during hospitalizations. Data were analyzed using Review Manager 5 (RevMan 5). We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of evidence. 
Main results
Fourteen studies were included in this review. Only RCTs investigating dexamethasone were identified. Eight studies enrolling a total of 303 participants investigated the cumulative dosage administered; three studies contrasted a high versus a moderate and five studies a moderate versus a low cumulative dexamethasone dose. 
Analysis of the studies investigating a moderate dexamethasone dose versus a high‐dosage regimen showed an increased risk of BPD (typical risk ratio (RR) 1.50, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.01 to 2.22; typical risk difference (RD) 0.26, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.49; number needed to treat for an additional harmful outcome (NNTH) 4, 95% CI 1.9 to 23.3; I² = 0%, 2 studies, 55 infants) as well as an increased risk of abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome (typical RR 8.33, 95% CI 1.63 to 42.48; RD 0.30, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.46; NNTH 4, 95% CI 2.2 to 7.3; I² = 68%, 2 studies, 74 infants) when using a moderate cumulative‐dosage regimen. The composite outcomes of death or BPD and death or abnormal neurodevelopmental outcome showed similar results although the former only reached borderline significance. 
