Background
Women may experience differing types of pain and discomfort following birth, including cramping pain (often called after‐birth pain) associated with uterine involution, where the uterus contracts to reduce blood loss and return the uterus to its non‐pregnant size. This is an update of a review first published in 2011. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological pain relief/analgesia for the relief of after‐birth pains following vaginal birth. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (31 October 2019), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing two different types of analgesia or analgesia versus placebo or analgesia versus no treatment, for the relief of after‐birth pains following vaginal birth. Types of analgesia included pharmacological and non‐pharmacological. Quasi‐randomised trials were not eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, conducted 'Risk of bias' assessment, extracted data and assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
In this update, we include 28 studies (involving 2749 women). The evidence identified in this review comes from middle‐ to high‐income countries. Generally the trials were at low risk of selection bias, performance bias and attrition bias, but some trials were at high risk of bias due to selective reporting and lack of blinding. Our GRADE certainty of evidence assessments ranged from moderate to very low certainty, with downgrading decisions based on study limitations, imprecision, and (for one comparison) indirectness. 
Most studies reported our primary outcome of adequate pain relief as reported by the women. No studies reported data relating to neonatal adverse events, duration of hospital stay, or breastfeeding rates. Almost half of the included studies (11/28) excluded breastfeeding women from participating, making the evidence less generalisable to a broader group of women. 
Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) compared to placebo 
NSAIDs are probably better than placebo for adequate pain relief as reported by the women (risk ratio (RR) 1.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.45 to 1.91; 11 studies, 946 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). NSAIDs may reduce the need for additional pain relief compared to placebo (RR 0.15, 95% CI 0.07 to 0.33; 4 studies, 375 women; low‐certainty evidence). There may be a similar risk of maternal adverse events (RR 1.05, 95% CI 0.78 to 1.41; 9 studies, 598 women; low‐certainty evidence). 
