Background
Hormonally impregnated intrauterine systems (IUSs) add a progestogen to a non‐medicated contraceptive device to improve contraceptive action. 
Objectives
To assess the contraceptive efficacy, tolerability and acceptability of IUSs versus other reversible contraceptive methods. 
Search methods
Searched databases, reference lists and relevant individuals/organisations covering the period from 1972 to July 2009. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing IUSs with other reversible contraceptives and reporting on pre‐determined outcomes, including pregnancy and continuation rates, in women of reproductive years. 
Data collection and analysis
Two blinded reviewers independently assessed quality and extracted data on events per women months and single decrement life table rates for pregnancy, continuation, adverse events and reasons for discontinuation. Events per total potential number of women at follow‐up were collected for hormonal side effects and menstrual change. 
Data were pooled at the same points of follow‐up to calculate rate ratios and single decrement life table rate differences. Similar interventions were combined and non‐hormonal intrauterine devices (IUDs) were divided into three categories: copper IUDs >250mm2, copper IUDs ≤250mm2, and non‐medicated IUDs. 
Main results
Twenty‐five RCTs met the inclusion criteria and nine were included in meta‐analyses: four comparing LNG‐20 IUSs (Mirena®) with non‐hormonal IUDs, one with Norplant‐2, one with combined oral contraceptives (COCs) and three comparing P4‐IUS (Progestasert®) with non‐hormonal IUDs. 
No significant difference was observed between LNG‐20 and IUD >250mm2 or COC user pregnancy rates.  LNG‐20 IUS users were significantly less likely to become pregnant than IUD ≤250mm2 users. LNG‐20 IUS users were more likely to experience a lack of menstrual bleeding and device expulsion than IUDs >250mm2 users. LNG‐20 users were significantly more likely than all IUD users to discontinue because of the lack of menstrual bleeding. They were significantly more likely to experience lack of and infrequent mentrual bleeding, but significantly less likely to experience prolonged bleeding and spotting than Norplant‐2 users. 
