Background
Venous leg ulcers (VLUs) are open skin wounds on the lower leg that occur because of poor blood flow in the veins of the leg; leg ulcers can last from weeks to years, and are both painful and costly. Prevalence in the UK is about 2.9 cases per 10,000 people. First‐line treatment for VLUs is compression therapy, but around 60% of people have unhealed ulcers after 12 weeks' treatment and about 40% after 24 weeks; therefore, there is scope for further improvement. Limited evidence suggests non‐healing leg ulcers may have persisting elevated levels of proteases, which is thought to deter the later stages of healing; thus, timely protease‐modulating matrix (PMM) treatments may improve healing by physically removing proteases from the wound fluid. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of protease‐modulating matrix (PMM) treatments on the healing of venous leg ulcers, in people managed in any care setting. 
Search methods
In September 2016 we searched: the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; CENTRAL; Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid MEDLINE (In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
We searched for published or unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated PMM treatments for VLUs. We defined PMM treatments as those with a purposeful intent of reducing proteases. Wound healing was the primary endpoint. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction. 
Main results
We included 12 studies (784 participants) in this review; sample sizes ranged from 10 to 187 participants (median 56.5). One study had three arms that were all relevant to this review and all the other studies had two arms. One study was a within‐participant comparison. All studies were industry funded. Two studies provided unpublished data for healing. 
Nine of the included studies compared PMM treatments with other treatments and reported results for the primary outcomes. All treatments were dressings. All studies also gave the participants compression bandaging. Seven of these studies were in participants described as having 'non‐responsive' or 'hard‐to‐heal' ulcers. Results, reported at short, medium and long durations and as time‐to‐event data, are summarised for the comparison of any dressing regimen incorporating PMM versus any other dressing regimen. The majority of the evidence was of low or very low certainty, and was mainly downgraded for risk of bias and imprecision. 
It is uncertain whether PMM dressing regimens heal VLUs quicker than non‐PMM dressing regimens (low‐certainty evidence from 1 trial with 100 participants) (HR 1.21, 95% CI 0.74 to 1.97). 
In the short term (four to eight weeks) it is unclear whether there is a difference between PMM dressing regimens and non‐PMM dressing regimens in the probability of healing (very low‐certainty evidence, 2 trials involving 207 participants). 
In the medium term (12 weeks), it is unclear whether PMM dressing regimens increase the probability of healing compared with non‐PMM dressing regimens (low‐certainty evidence from 4 trials with 192 participants) (RR 1.28, 95% CI 0.95 to 1.71). Over the longer term (6 months), it is also unclear whether there is a difference between PMM dressing regimens and non‐PMM dressing regimens in the probability of healing (low certainty evidence, 1 trial, 100 participants) (RR 1.06, 95% CI 0.80 to 1.41). 
It is uncertain whether there is a difference in adverse events between PMM dressing regimens and non‐PMM dressing regimens (low‐certainty evidence from 5 trials, 363 participants) (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.75 to 1.42). It is also unclear whether resource use is lower for PMM dressing regimens (low‐certainty evidence, 1 trial involving 73 participants), or whether mean total costs in a German healthcare setting are different (low‐certainty evidence, 1 trial in 187 participants). One cost‐effectiveness analysis was not included because effectiveness was not based on complete healing. 
