Background
Transient tachypnea of the newborn (TTN) is caused by delayed clearance of lung fluid at birth. TTN typically appears within the first two hours of life in term and late preterm neonates and is characterized by tachypnea and signs of respiratory distress. Although it is usually a self‐limited condition, admission to a neonatal unit is frequently required for monitoring and providing respiratory support. Restricting intake of fluids administered to these infants in the first days of life might improve clearance of lung liquid, thus reducing the effort required to breathe, improving respiratory distress, and potentially reducing the duration of tachypnea. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of restricted fluid therapy as compared to standard fluid therapy in decreasing the duration of oxygen administration and the need for noninvasive or invasive ventilation among neonates with TTN. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 12), in the Cochrane Library; Ovid MEDLINE and electronic ahead of print publications, in‐process & other non‐indexed citations, Daily and Versions(R); and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), on December 6, 2019. We also searched clinical trial databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomized controlled trials and quasi‐randomized trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs, and cluster trials on fluid restriction in term and preterm neonates with the diagnosis of TTN or delayed adaptation during the first week after birth. 
Data collection and analysis
For each of the included trials, two review authors independently extracted data (e.g. number of participants, birth weight, gestational age, duration of oxygen therapy, need for continuous positive airway pressure [CPAP], need for mechanical ventilation, duration of mechanical ventilation) and assessed the risk of bias (e.g. adequacy of randomization, blinding, completeness of follow‐up). The primary outcome considered in this review was the duration of supplemental oxygen therapy in hours or days. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
