Background
Approximately 450,000 children worldwide die of pneumococcal infections each year. The development of bacterial resistance to antimicrobials adds to the difficulty of treatment of diseases and emphasizes the need for a preventive approach. Newborn vaccination schedules could substantially reduce the impact of pneumococcal disease in immunized children, but do not have an effect on the morbidity and mortality of infants less than three months of age. Pneumococcal vaccination during pregnancy may be a way of preventing pneumococcal disease during the first months of life before the pneumococcal vaccine administered to the infant starts to produce protection. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of pneumococcal vaccination during pregnancy for preventing infant infection. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 July 2014) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials in pregnant women comparing pneumococcal vaccine with placebo or doing nothing, or with another vaccine to prevent infant infections. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data and checked them for accuracy. We contacted study authors for additional information. 
Main results
Seven trials were included, but only six trials (919 participants) contributed data. There was no evidence that pneumococcal vaccination during pregnancy reduces the risk of neonatal infection (risk ratio (RR) 0.66; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.30 to 1.46; two trials, 241 pregnancies, low quality evidence). Although the data suggest an effect in reducing pneumococcal colonization in infants by 16 months of age (average RR 0.33; 95% CI 0.11 to 0.98; one trial, 56 pregnancies), there was no evidence of this effect in infants at two to three months of age (average RR 1.13; 95% CI 0.46 to 2.78; two trials, 146 pregnancies, low quality evidence) or by six to seven months of age (average RR 0.67, 95% CI 0.22 to 2.08; two trials, 148 pregnancies, low quality evidence). None of the trials included in this review reported neonatal death as a result of pneumococcal infection. 
Neonatal antibody levels were reported as geometric mean and 95% CI. There were inconsistent results between studies. Two studies showed significantly higher immunoglobulin G (IgG) levels in cord blood in the pneumococcal vaccine group when compared with the control group for all serotypes. In contrast, another trial showed no difference in neonatal antibody levels between the pneumococcal vaccine group and the control group. 
