Background
Up to 75% of people with serious mental illness (SMI) such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder have co‐occurring substance use disorders (dual diagnosis). Dual diagnosis can have an adverse effect on treatment and prognosis of SMI. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of risperidone compared to treatment with other antipsychotics (first‐generation and other second‐generation antipsychotics) used in people with serious mental illness and co‐occurring substance misuse. 
Search methods
On 6 January 2016 and 9 October 2017, we searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group’s Study‐Based Register of Trials (including trial registers). 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised trials of risperidone versus any other antipsychotic in people with SMI and substance abuse (dual diagnosis). We included trials meeting our inclusion criteria and reporting useable data. We excluded trials that either did not meet our inclusion criteria or met our inclusion criteria but did not report any useable data. 
Data collection and analysis
We independently inspected citations and selected studies. For included studies, we independently extracted data and appraised study quality. For binary outcomes we calculated the risk ratios (RRs) and their 95% confidence intervals. For continuous outcomes we calculated the mean differences (MDs) and their 95% confidence intervals. We pooled data using random‐effects meta‐analyses and assessed the quality of evidence, creating a 'Summary of findings' table using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We identified eight randomised trials containing a total of 1073 participants with SMI and co‐occurring substance misuse. Seven of these contributed useable data to the review. There was heterogeneity in trial design and measurement. Risperidone was compared to clozapine, olanzapine, perphenazine, quetiapine and ziprasidone. Few trials compared risperidone with first‐generation agents. Few trials examined participants with a dual diagnosis from the outset and most trials only contained separate analyses of subgroups with a dual diagnosis or were secondary data analyses of subgroups of people with a dual diagnosis from existing larger trials. 
