Background
Acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) account for one‐quarter of cases of acute respiratory failure in intensive care units (ICUs). A third to half of patients will die in the ICU, in hospital or during follow‐up. Mechanical ventilation of people with ALI/ARDS allows time for the lungs to heal, but ventilation is invasive and can result in lung injury. It is uncertain whether ventilator‐related injury would be reduced if pressure delivered by the ventilator with each breath is controlled, or whether the volume of air delivered by each breath is limited. 
Objectives
To compare pressure‐controlled ventilation (PCV) versus volume‐controlled ventilation (VCV) in adults with ALI/ARDS to determine whether PCV reduces in‐hospital mortality and morbidity in intubated and ventilated adults. 
Search methods
In October 2014, we searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (2014, Isssue 9), MEDLINE (1950 to 1 October 2014), EMBASE (1980 to 1 October 2014), the Latin American Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (1994 to 1 October 2014) and Science Citation Index‐Expanded (SCI‐EXPANDED) at the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Science (1990 to 1 October 2014), as well as regional databases, clinical trials registries, conference proceedings and reference lists. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs (irrespective of language or publication status) of adults with a diagnosis of acute respiratory failure or acute on chronic respiratory failure and fulfilling the criteria for ALI/ARDS as defined by the American‐European Consensus Conference who were admitted to an ICU for invasive mechanical ventilation, comparing pressure‐controlled or pressure‐controlled inverse‐ratio ventilation, or an equivalent pressure‐controlled mode (PCV), versus volume‐controlled ventilation, or an equivalent volume‐controlled mode (VCV). 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened and selected trials, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. We sought clarification from trial authors when needed. We pooled risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous data and mean differences (MDs) for continuous data with their 95% confidence intervals (CIs) using a random‐effects model. We assessed overall evidence quality using the GRADE (Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation) approach. 
