Background
Immunization rates for children and adults are rising, but coverage levels have not reached optimal goals. As a result, vaccine‐preventable diseases still occur. In an era of increasing complexity of immunization schedules, rising expectations about the performance of primary care, and large demands on primary care providers, it is important to understand and promote interventions that work in primary care settings to increase immunization coverage. One common theme across immunization programs in many nations involves the challenge of implementing a population‐based approach and identifying all eligible recipients, for example the children who should receive the measles vaccine. However, this issue is gradually being addressed through the availability of immunization registries and electronic health records. A second common theme is identifying the best strategies to promote high vaccination rates. Three types of strategies have been studied: (1) patient‐oriented interventions, such as patient reminder or recall, (2) provider interventions, and (3) system interventions, such as school laws. One of the most prominent intervention strategies, and perhaps best studied, involves patient reminder or recall systems. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Objectives
To evaluate and compare the effectiveness of various types of patient reminder and recall interventions to improve receipt of immunizations. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL to January 2017. We also searched grey literature and trial registers to January 2017. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized trials, controlled before and after studies, and interrupted time series evaluating immunization‐focused patient reminder or recall interventions in children, adolescents, and adults who receive immunizations in any setting. We included no‐intervention control groups, standard practice activities that did not include immunization patient reminder or recall, media‐based activities aimed at promoting immunizations, or simple practice‐based awareness campaigns. We included receipt of any immunizations as eligible outcome measures, excluding special travel immunizations. We excluded patients who were hospitalized for the duration of the study period. 
