Background
Thyroid nodules (TN) are common in the adult population. Some physicians use suppressive levothyroxine (LT4) therapy to achieve a reduction in the number and volume of TN. In addition, minimally invasive treatments, such as percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) sclerotherapy, laser photocoagulation (LP), and microwave (MW), radiofrequency (RF) and high‐intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) ablation, have been proposed, especially for pressure symptoms and cosmetic complaints, as an alternative to surgery. However, the risk to benefit ratio of all treatments for benign TN is currently unknown. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of LT4 or minimally invasive therapies (PEI, LP, and RF/HIFU/MW ablation) on benign TN. 
Search methods
We identified studies from computerised searches of The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS (all performed up to April 2014). We also searched trial registers, examined reference lists of included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and systematic reviews, and contacted study authors. 
Selection criteria
We included studies if they were RCTs of LT4, PEI, LP, RF, HIFU or MW therapy in participants with an established diagnosis of benign TN. We excluded trials investigating the prevention of recurrence of thyroid disease after surgery, irradiation or treatment with radioiodine. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data, assessed studies for risk of bias and evaluated overall study quality utilising the GRADE instrument. We assessed the statistical heterogeneity of included studies by visually inspecting forest plots and quantifying the diversity using the I² statistic. We synthesised data using random‐effects model meta‐analysis or descriptive analysis, as appropriate. 
Main results
Thirty‐one studies randomised 2952 outpatients to investigate the effects of different therapies on benign TN. Studies on LT4, PEI, LP and RF ablation therapy randomised 2083, 607, 192 and 70 participants, respectively. We found no RCTs of HIFU or MW ablation therapy in benign TN. The duration of treatment varied according to the applied therapies: up to five years for LT4 and one to three PEI ablations, one to three LP sessions and one or two RF sessions. Median follow‐up was 12 months for LT4 and six months for minimally invasive therapies. Evidence was of low‐to‐moderate quality, and risk of performance and detection bias for subjective outcomes was high in most trials. 
No study evaluated all‐cause mortality or health‐related quality of life. Only one LT4 study provided some data on the development of thyroid cancer, reporting no abnormal cytological findings. One LP study provided limited information on costs of treatment. 
LT4 compared with no treatment or placebo was associated with a nodule volume reduction of 50% or more in 16% compared with 10% of participants after 6 to 24 months of follow‐up (risk ratio (RR) 1.57 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.04 to 2.38); P = 0.03; 958 participants; 10 studies; moderate‐quality evidence). Pressure symptoms or cosmetic complaints were not investigated in LT4 studies. LT4 therapy was generally well tolerated: three studies provided quantitative data on signs and symptoms of hyperthyroidism, which were observed in 25% of LT4‐treated versus 7% of placebo‐treated participants at 12 to 18 months of follow‐up (269 participants; 3 trials; low‐quality evidence). 
