Background
Atherosclerosis of the iliac artery may result in a stenosis or occlusion, which is defined as iliac artery occlusive disease. A range of surgical and endovascular treatment options are available. Open surgical procedures have excellent patency rates but at the cost of substantial morbidity and mortality. Endovascular treatment has good safety and short‐term efficacy with decreased morbidity, complications and costs compared with open surgical procedures. Both percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) and stenting are commonly used endovascular treatment options for iliac artery occlusive disease. A stenotic or occlusive lesion of the iliac artery can be treated successfully by PTA alone. If PTA alone is technically unsuccessful, additional stent placement is indicated. Alternatively, a stent could be placed primarily to treat an iliac artery stenosis or occlusion (primary stenting, PS). However, there is limited evidence to prove which endovascular treatment strategy is superior for stenotic and occlusive lesions of the iliac arteries. This is an update of the review first published in 2015. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of percutaneous transluminal angioplasty versus primary stenting for stenotic and occlusive lesions of the iliac artery. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and CINAHL databases and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 24 September 2019. We also undertook reference checking and citation searching to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing percutaneous transluminal angioplasty and primary stenting for iliac artery occlusive disease. We excluded quasi‐randomised trials, case reports, case‐control or cohort studies. We did not exclude studies based on the language of publication. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected suitable trials, extracted data, assessed trial quality and performed data analyses. When there was disagreement, consensus would be reached first by discussion between the two authors and, if needed, through consultation with a third author. We used GRADE criteria to assess the certainty of the evidence and presented the main results in a 'Summary of findings' table. The main outcomes of interest were technical success, complications, symptomatic improvement of peripheral arterial disease (PAD), patency, reinterventions, resolutions of symptoms and signs, and improvement in walking distance as reported by the patient. 
Main results
We identified no new studies for this update. Previously, we identified two RCTs, with a combined total of 397 participants, as meeting the selection criteria. One study included mostly stenotic lesions (95%), whereas the second study included only iliac artery occlusions. Heterogeneity between these two studies meant it was not possible to pool the data. Both studies were of moderate methodological quality with some risk of bias relating to selective reporting and non‐blinding of participants and personnel. Both studies occurred in the 1990s and techniques have since evolved. We assessed the overall certainty of the evidence to be low. We downgraded by two levels: one for risk of bias concerns and one for imprecision and indirectness. 
