Background
Idiopathic Parkinson's disease (IPD) is a neurodegenerative disorder, with the severity of the disability usually increasing with disease duration. IPD affects patients' health‐related quality of life, disability, and impairment. Current rehabilitation approaches have limited effectiveness in improving outcomes in patients with IPD, but a possible adjunct to rehabilitation might be non‐invasive brain stimulation by transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS) to modulate cortical excitability, and hence to improve these outcomes in IPD. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of tDCS in improving motor and non‐motor symptoms in people with IPD. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases (until February 2016): the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; the Cochrane Library ; 2016 , Issue 2), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, AMED, Science Citation Index, the Physiotherapy Evidence Database (PEDro), Rehabdata, and Inspec. In an effort to identify further published, unpublished, and ongoing trials, we searched trial registers and reference lists, handsearched conference proceedings, and contacted authors and equipment manufacturers. 
Selection criteria
We included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and randomised controlled cross‐over trials that compared tDCS versus control in patients with IPD for improving health‐related quality of life , disability, and impairment. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality (JM and MP) and extracted data (BE and JM). If necessary, we contacted study authors to ask for additional information. We collected information on dropouts and adverse events from the trial reports. 
Main results
We included six trials with a total of 137 participants. We found two studies with 45 participants examining the effects of tDCS compared to control (sham tDCS) on our primary outcome measure, impairment, as measured by the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS). There was very low quality evidence for no effect of tDCS on change in global UPDRS score ( mean difference (MD) ‐7.10 %, 95% confidence interval (CI ‐19.18 to 4.97; P = 0.25, I² = 21%, random‐effects model). However, there was evidence of an effect on UPDRS part III motor subsection score at the end of the intervention phase (MD ‐14.43%, 95% CI ‐24.68 to ‐4.18; P = 0.006, I² = 2%, random‐effects model; very low quality evidence). One study with 25 participants measured the reduction in off and on time with dyskinesia, but there was no evidence of an effect (MD 0.10 hours, 95% CI ‐0.14 to 0.34; P = 0.41, I² = 0%, random‐effects model; and MD 0.00 hours, 95% CI ‐0.12 to 0.12; P = 1, I² = 0%, random‐ effects model, respectively; very low quality evidence). 
