Background
The pure soybean oil based lipid emulsions (S‐LE) conventionally used for parenteral nutrition (PN) in preterm infants have high polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) content. The newer lipid emulsions (LE) from alternative lipid sources with reduced PUFA content may improve clinical outcomes in preterm infants. 
Objectives
To determine the safety and efficacy of the newer alternative LE compared with the conventional S‐LE for PN in preterm infants. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group (CNRG) to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; Issue 7), MEDLINE (1946 to 31 July 2015), EMBASE (1947 to 31 July 2015), CINAHL (1982 to 31 July 2015), Web of Science (31 July 2015), conference proceedings, trial registries (clinicaltrials.gov, controlled‐trials.com, WHO's ICTRP), and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials in preterm infants (< 37 weeks), comparing newer alternative LE with S‐LE. 
Data collection and analysis
Data collection and analysis conformed to the methods of the CNRG. We assessed the quality of evidence for important outcomes using the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach, in addition to reporting the conventional statistical significance of results. 
Main results
Fifteen studies (N = 979 infants) are included in this review. Alternative LE including medium chain triglycerides/long chain triglycerides (MCT/LCT) LE (3 studies; n = 108), MCT‐olive‐fish‐soy oil‐LE (MOFS‐LE; 7 studies; n = 469), MCT‐fish‐soy oil‐LE (MFS‐LE; 1 study; n = 60), olive‐soy oil‐LE (OS‐LE; 7 studies; n = 406), and borage‐soy oil‐LE (BS‐LE; 1 study; n = 34) were compared with S‐LE. The different LE were also considered together to compare ‘all fish oil containing‐LE’ versus S‐LE (7 studies; n = 499) and ‘all alternative LE’ versus S‐LE (15 studies; n = 979). Some studies had multiple intervention arms and were included in more than one comparison. No study compared pure fish oil‐LE or structured‐LE to S‐LE. 
The GRADE quality of evidence (GRADE QoE) ranged from ‘low’ to ‘very low.’ Evidence came mostly from small single centre studies, many focusing on biochemical aspects as their primary outcomes, with optimal information size not achieved for the important clinical outcomes in any comparison. 
