Background
Fear of pain during insertion of intrauterine contraception (IUC) is a barrier to use of this method. IUC includes copper‐containing intrauterine devices and levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine systems. Interventions for pain control during IUC insertion include non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), local cervical anesthetics, and cervical ripening agents such as misoprostol. 
Objectives
To review randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of interventions for reducing IUC insertion‐related pain 
Search methods
We searched for trials in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, POPLINE, ClinicalTrials.gov, and ICTRP. The most recent search was 22 June 2015. We examined reference lists of pertinent articles. For the initial review, we wrote to investigators to find other published or unpublished trials. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs that evaluated an intervention for preventing IUC insertion‐related pain. The comparison could have been a placebo, no intervention, or another active intervention. The primary outcomes were self‐reported pain at tenaculum placement, during IUC insertion, and after IUC insertion (up to six hours). 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors extracted data from eligible trials. For dichotomous variables, we calculated the Mantel‐Haenszel odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). For continuous variables, we computed the mean difference (MD) with 95% CI. In meta‐analysis of trials with different measurement scales, we used the standardized mean difference (SMD). 
Main results
We included 33 trials with 5710 participants total; 29 were published from 2010 to 2015. Studies examined lidocaine, misoprostol, NSAIDs, and other interventions. Here we synthesize results from trials with sufficient outcome data and moderate‐ or high‐quality evidence. 
For lidocaine, meta‐analysis showed topical 2% gel had no effect on pain at tenaculum placement (two trials) or on pain during IUC insertion (three trials). Other formulations were effective compared with placebo in individual trials. Mean score for IUC‐insertion pain was lower with lidocaine and prilocaine cream (MD ‐1.96, 95% CI ‐3.00 to ‐0.92). Among nulliparous women, topical 4% formulation showed lower scores for IUC‐insertion pain assessed within 10 minutes (MD ‐15.90, 95% CI ‐22.77 to ‐9.03) and at 30 minutes later (MD ‐11.10, 95% CI ‐19.05 to ‐3.15). Among parous women, IUC‐insertion pain was lower with 10% spray (median 1.00 versus 3.00). Compared with no intervention, pain at tenaculum placement was lower with 1% paracervical block (median 12 versus 28). 
