Background
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a major public health issue with rates increasing globally. Gestational diabetes, glucose intolerance first recognised during pregnancy, usually resolves after birth and is associated with short‐ and long‐term complications for the mother and her infant. Treatment options can include oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies for treating women with GDM. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register (14 May 2016), ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO ICTRP (14 May 2016) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included published and unpublished randomised controlled trials assessing the effects of oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies for treating pregnant women with GDM. We included studies comparing oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies with 1) placebo/standard care, 2) another oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapy, 3) combined oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies. Trials using insulin as the comparator were excluded as they are the subject of a separate Cochrane systematic review. 
Women with pre‐existing type 1 or type 2 diabetes were excluded.
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and trial quality. Two review authors independently extracted data and data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included 11 studies (19 publications) (1487 women and their babies). Eight studies had data that could be included in meta‐analyses. Studies were conducted in Brazil, India, Israel, UK, South Africa and USA. The studies varied in diagnostic criteria and treatment targets for glycaemic control for GDM. The overall risk of bias was 'unclear' due to inadequate reporting of methodology. Using GRADE the quality of the evidence ranged from moderate to very low quality. Evidence was downgraded for risk of bias (reporting bias, lack of blinding), inconsistency, indirectness, imprecision and for oral anti‐diabetic therapy versus placebo for generalisability. 
Oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies versus placebo/standard care 
There was no evidence of a difference between glibenclamide and placebo groups for hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (risk ratio (RR) 1.24, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.81 to 1.90; one study, 375 women, very low‐quality evidence), birth by caesarean section (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.34; one study, 375 women, very low‐quality evidence), perineal trauma (RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.06 to 15.62; one study, 375 women, very low‐quality evidence) or induction of labour (RR 1.18, 95% CI 0.79 to 1.76; one study, 375 women; very low‐quality evidence). No data were reported for development of type 2 diabetes or other pre‐specified GRADE maternal outcomes (return to pre‐pregnancy weight, postnatal depression). For the infant, there was no evidence of a difference in the risk of being born large‐for‐gestational age (LGA) between infants whose mothers had been treated with glibenclamide and those in the placebo group (RR 0.89, 95% CI 0.51 to 1.58; one study, 375, low‐quality evidence). No data were reported for other infant primary or GRADE outcomes (perinatal mortality, death or serious morbidity composite, neurosensory disability in later childhood, neonatal hypoglycaemia, adiposity, diabetes). 
