Background
Hip fractures are a major healthcare problem, presenting a considerable challenge and burden to individuals and healthcare systems. The number of hip fractures globally is rising rapidly. The majority of intracapsular hip fractures are treated surgically. 
Objectives
To assess the relative effects (benefits and harms) of all surgical treatments used in the management of intracapsular hip fractures in older adults, using a network meta‐analysis of randomised trials, and to generate a hierarchy of interventions according to their outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, Web of Science, and five other databases in July 2020. We also searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings, reference lists of retrieved articles and conducted backward‐citation searches. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs comparing different treatments for fragility intracapsular hip fractures in older adults. We included total hip arthroplasties (THAs), hemiarthroplasties (HAs), internal fixation, and non‐operative treatments. We excluded studies of people with hip fracture with specific pathologies other than osteoporosis or resulting from high‐energy trauma. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed studies for inclusion. One review author completed data extraction which was checked by a second review author. We collected data for three outcomes at different time points: mortality and health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) ‐ both reported within 4 months, at 12 months, and after 24 months of surgery, and unplanned return to theatre (at end of study follow‐up). 
We performed a network meta‐analysis (NMA) with Stata software, using frequentist methods, and calculated the differences between treatments using risk ratios (RRs) and standardised mean differences (SMDs) and their corresponding 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We also performed direct comparisons using the same codes. 
Main results
We included 119 studies (102 RCTS, 17 quasi‐RCTs) with 17,653 participants with 17,669 intracapsular fractures in the review; 83% of fractures were displaced. The mean participant age ranged from 60 to 87 years and 73% were women.  
After discussion with clinical experts, we selected 12 nodes that represented the best balance between clinical plausibility and efficiency of the networks: cemented modern unipolar HA, dynamic fixed angle plate, uncemented first‐generation bipolar HA, uncemented modern bipolar HA, cemented modern bipolar HA, uncemented first‐generation unipolar HA, uncemented modern unipolar HA, THA with single articulation, dual‐mobility THA, pins, screws, and non‐operative treatment. Seventy‐five studies (with 11,855 participants) with data for at least two of these treatments contributed to the NMA. 
We selected cemented modern unipolar HA as a reference treatment against which other treatments were compared. This was a common treatment in the networks, providing a clinically appropriate comparison. In order to provide a concise summary of the results, we report only network estimates when there was evidence of difference between treatments. 
We downgraded the certainty of the evidence for serious and very serious risks of bias and when estimates included possible transitivity, particularly for internal fixation which included more undisplaced fractures. We also downgraded for incoherence, or inconsistency in indirect estimates, although this affected few estimates. Most estimates included the possibility of benefits and harms, and we downgraded the evidence for these treatments for imprecision.  
