Background
Age‐related decline in bone mass increases the risk of skeletal fractures, especially those of the hip, spine, and wrist. Steroidal contraceptives have been associated with changes in bone mineral density in women. Whether such changes affect the risk of fractures later in life is unclear. Hormonal contraceptives are among the most effective and most widely‐used contraceptives. Concern about fractures may limit the use of these effective contraceptives. Observational studies can collect data on premenopausal contraceptive use as well as fracture incidence later in life. 
Objectives
We systematically reviewed the evidence from observational studies of hormonal contraceptive use for contraception and the risk of fracture in women. 
Search methods
Through June 2015, we searched for observational studies. The databases included PubMed, POPLINE, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), LILACS, EMBASE, CINAHL, and Web of Science. We also searched for recent clinical trials through ClinicalTrials.gov and the ICTRP. For other studies, we examined reference lists of relevant articles and wrote to investigators for additional reports. 
Selection criteria
We included cohort and case‐control studies of hormonal contraceptive use. Interventions included comparisons of a hormonal contraceptive with a non‐hormonal contraceptive, no contraceptive, or another hormonal contraceptive. The primary outcome was the risk of fracture. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted the data. One author entered the data into RevMan, and a second author verified accuracy. We examined the quality of evidence using the Newcastle‐Ottawa Quality Assessment Scale (NOS), developed for case‐control and cohort studies. Sensitivity analysis included studies of moderate or high quality based on our assessment with the NOS. 
Given the need to control for confounding factors in observational studies, we used adjusted estimates from the models as reported by the authors. Where we did not have adjusted analyses, we calculated the odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence interval (CI). Due to varied study designs, we did not conduct meta‐analysis. 
Main results
We included 14 studies (7 case‐control and 7 cohort studies). These examined oral contraceptives (OCs), depot medroxyprogesterone acetate (DMPA), and the hormonal intrauterine device (IUD). This section focuses on the sensitivity analysis with six studies that provided moderate or high quality evidence. 
