Background
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a form of diabetes that occurs in pregnancy. Although GDM usually resolves following birth, it is associated with significant morbidities for mothers and their infants in the short and long term. There is strong evidence to support treatment for GDM. However, there is uncertainty as to whether or not screening all pregnant women for GDM will improve maternal and infant health and if so, the most appropriate setting for screening. This review updates a Cochrane Review, first published in 2010, and subsequently updated in 2014. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of screening for gestational diabetes mellitus based on different risk profiles and settings on maternal and infant outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register (31 January 2017), ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (14 June 2017), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised trials evaluating the effects of different protocols, guidelines or programmes for screening for GDM based on different risk profiles and settings, compared with the absence of screening, or compared with other protocols, guidelines or programmes for screening. We planned to include trials published as abstracts only and cluster‐randomised trials, but we did not identify any. Cross‐over trials are not eligible for inclusion in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed study eligibility, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of the included trials. We resolved disagreements through discussion or through consulting a third reviewer. 
Main results
We included two trials that randomised 4523 women and their infants. Both trials were conducted in Ireland. One trial (which quasi‐randomised 3742 women, and analysed 3152 women) compared universal screening versus risk factor‐based screening, and one trial (which randomised 781 women, and analysed 690 women) compared primary care screening versus secondary care screening. We were not able to perform meta‐analyses due to the different interventions and comparisons assessed. 
