Background
Child and adolescent overweight and obesity have increased globally, and are associated with short‐ and long‐term health consequences. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of diet, physical activity and behavioural interventions delivered to parents only for the treatment of overweight and obesity in children aged 5 to 11 years. 
Search methods
We performed a systematic literature search of databases including the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL and LILACS as well trial registers. We checked references of identified trials and systematic reviews. We applied no language restrictions. The date of the last search was March 2015 for all databases. 
Selection criteria
We selected randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of diet, physical activity and behavioural interventions delivered to parents only for treating overweight or obesity in children aged 5 to 11 years. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for risk of bias and evaluated overall study quality using the GRADE instrument. Where necessary, we contacted authors for additional information. 
Main results
We included 20 RCTs, including 3057 participants. The number of participants ranged per trial between 15 and 645. Follow‐up ranged between 24 weeks and two years. Eighteen trials were parallel RCTs and two were cluster RCTs. Twelve RCTs had two comparisons and eight RCTs had three comparisons. The interventions varied widely; the duration, content, delivery and follow‐up of the interventions were heterogeneous. The comparators also differed. This review categorised the comparisons into four groups: parent‐only versus parent‐child, parent‐only versus waiting list controls, parent‐only versus minimal contact interventions and parent‐only versus other parent‐only interventions. 
Trial quality was generally low with a large proportion of trials rated as high risk of bias on individual risk of bias criteria. 
In trials comparing a parent‐only intervention with a parent‐child intervention, the body mass index (BMI) z score change showed a mean difference (MD) at the longest follow‐up period (10 to 24 months) of ‐0.04 (95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.15 to 0.08); P = 0.56; 267 participants; 3 trials; low quality evidence. In trials comparing a parent‐only intervention with a waiting list control, the BMI z score change in favour of the parent‐only intervention at the longest follow‐up period (10‐12 months) had an MD of ‐0.10 (95% CI ‐0.19 to ‐0.01); P = 0.04; 136 participants; 2 trials; low quality evidence. BMI z score change of parent‐only interventions when compared with minimal contact control interventions at the longest follow‐up period (9 to 12 months) showed an MD of 0.01 (95% CI ‐0.07 to 0.09); P = 0.81; 165 participants; 1 trial; low quality evidence. There were few similarities between interventions and comparators across the included trials in the parent‐only intervention versus other parent‐only interventions and we did not pool these data. Generally, these trials did not show substantial differences between their respective parent‐only groups on BMI outcomes. 
Other outcomes such as behavioural measures, parent‐child relationships and health‐related quality of life were reported inconsistently. Adverse effects of the interventions were generally not reported, two trials stated that there were no serious adverse effects. No trials reported on all‐cause mortality, morbidity or socioeconomic effects. 
