Background
The annual incidence of ankle fractures is 122 per 100,000 people. They usually affect young men and older women. The question of whether surgery or conservative treatment should be used for ankle fractures remains controversial. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of surgical versus conservative interventions for treating ankle fractures in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, 2012 Issue 1), MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and Current Controlled Trials. Date of last search: 6 February 2012. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled clinical studies comparing surgical and conservative treatments for ankle fractures in adults were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction. Authors of the included studies were contacted to obtain original data. 
Main results
Three randomised controlled trials and one quasi‐randomised controlled trial were included. These involved a total of 292 participants with ankle fractures. All studies were at high risk of bias from lack of blinding. Additionally, loss to follow‐up or inappropriate exclusion of participants put two trials at high risk of attrition bias. The trials used different and incompatible outcome measures for assessing function and pain. Only limited meta‐analysis was possible for early treatment failure, some adverse events and radiological signs of arthritis. 
One trial, following up 92 of 111 randomised participants, found no statistically significant differences between surgery and conservative treatment in patient‐reported symptoms (self assessed ankle "troubles": 11/43 versus 14/49; risk ratio (RR) 0.90, 95% CI 0.46 to 1.76) or walking difficulties at seven years follow‐up. One trial, reporting data for 31 of 43 randomised participants, found a statistically significantly better mean Olerud score in the surgically treated group but no difference between the two groups in pain scores after a mean follow‐up of 27 months. A third trial, reporting data for 49 of 96 randomised participants at 3.5 years follow‐up, reported no difference between the two groups in a non‐validated clinical score. 
