Background
This is an updated version of the original Cochrane review published in The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2011. 
Cervical cancer is the most common cause of death from gynaecological cancers worldwide. Locally advanced cervical cancer, FIGO stage (International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics) equal or more than IB1 is treated with chemotherapy and external beam radiotherapy followed by brachytherapy. If there is metastatic para‐aortic nodal disease, radiotherapy is extended to cover this area. Due to increased morbidity, ideally extended‐field radiotherapy is given only when para‐aortic nodal disease is confirmed. Therefore, accurate assessment of the extent of the disease is very important for planning the most appropriate treatment. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of pre‐treatment surgical para‐aortic lymph node assessment for woman with locally advanced cervical cancer (FIGO stage IB2 to IVA). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library, 2012, Issue 10), MEDLINE and EMBASE (up to November 2012). We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings, reference lists of included studies and contacted experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared surgical para‐aortic lymph node assessment and dissection with radiological staging techniques, in adult women diagnosed with locally advanced cervical cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed whether potentially relevant trials met the inclusion criteria, abstracted data and assessed risk of bias. One RCT was identified so no meta‐analyses were performed. 
Main results
We found only one trial, which included 61 women, that met our inclusion criteria. This trial reported data on surgical versus clinical staging and an assessment of the two surgical staging techniques; laparoscopic (LAP) versus extraperitoneal (EXP) surgical staging. The clinical staging was either a contrast‐enhanced computed tomography (CT) scan or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scan of the abdomen and pelvis to determine nodal status. 
In this trial, clinical staging appeared to significantly prolong overall and progression‐free survival compared to surgical staging. There was no statistically significant difference in the number of women who experienced severe (grade 3 or 4) toxicity. 
