Background
Nicergoline is an ergot derivative currently in use in over fifty countries for more than three decades, for the treatment of cognitive, affective, and behavioral disorders of older people. It was initially considered as a vasoactive drug and mainly prescribed for cerebrovascular disorders. Recent findings suggest other actions which has provided a rationale for the use of nicergoline for the treatment of various forms of dementia, including Alzheimer's Disease. 
Objectives
To determine whether there is evidence of efficacy of nicergoline in the treatment of dementia and other age‐associated forms of cognitive decline,and to assess the safety and tolerability of the drug. 
Search methods
1. Electronic databases search. The Cochrane Controlled Trials Register (which contains citations from the MEDLINE, EMBASE, Psych LIT, and hand searches of geriatric, dementia, psychogeriatric journals, and conference abstracts) was searched using the following terms: 'Nicergoline', 'Sermion'.  2. Reference search. The reference lists of all obtained studies was checked.  3. Pharmaceutical company Pharmacia & Upjohn, owners of the rights to produce and market nicergoline in various different countries, was asked to provide data and reports of clinical trials. In case of unavailability of numerical data in published studies, the authors of each paper, were asked for any published or unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
‐ All unconfounded, double‐blind, randomized, placebo‐controlled, published and unpublished trials were sought. Non‐randomized trials were excluded. Open trials were considered for inclusion if patients were randomized to the different treatment groups.  ‐ All patients diagnosed as having dementia or other cognitive disorder defined according to classification criteria accepted at the time of each study.  ‐ Nicergoline given at any dose for more than one day with placebo control. 
Type of outcome variables:
1. Cognitive function (as measured by psychometric tests).  2. Clinical impression (such as CIBIC or other clinical global measures of change).  3. Functional performance including dependency.  4. Behavioural disturbance.  5. Safety and acceptability as measured by the incidence of adverse effects (including side‐effects) leading to withdrawal.  6. Death  7. Effect on carer  8. Use of services  9. Quality of life. 
