Background
Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (allo‐HCT) is associated with improved outcomes for people with various hematologic diseases; however, the morbidity and mortality resulting from acute and subsequently chronic graft‐versus‐host disease (GVHD) pose a serious challenge to wider applicability of allo‐HCT. Intravenous methotrexate in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor, cyclosporine or tacrolimus, is a widely used regimen for the prophylaxis of acute GVHD, but the administration of methotrexate is associated with a number of adverse events. Mycophenolate mofetil, in combination with a calcineurin inhibitor, has been used extensively in people undergoing allo‐HCT. Conflicting results regarding various clinical outcomes following allo‐HCT have been observed when comparing mycophenolate mofetil‐based regimens against methotrexate‐based regimens for acute GVHD prophylaxis. 
Objectives
Primary objective: to assess the effect of mycophenolate mofetil versus methotrexate for prevention of acute GVHD in people undergoing allo‐HCT. 
Secondary objectives: to evaluate the effect of mycophenolate mofetil versus methotrexate for overall survival, prevention of chronic GVHD, incidence of relapse, treatment‐related harms, nonrelapse mortality, and quality of life. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and MEDLINE from inception to March 2014. We handsearched conference abstracts from the last two meetings (2011 and 2012) of relevant societies in the field. We searched ClinicalTrials.gov, Novartis clinical trials database (www.novctrd.com), Roche clinical trial protocol registry (www.roche‐trials.com), Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry (ANZCTR), and the metaRegister of Controlled Trials for ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
Two review authors independently reviewed all titles/abstracts and selected full‐text articles for inclusion. We included all references that reported results of randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of mycophenolate mofetil versus methotrexate for the prophylaxis of GVHD among people undergoing allo‐HCT in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data on outcomes from all studies and compared prior to data entry and analysis. We expressed results as risk ratios (RR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI) for dichotomous outcomes and hazard ratios (HR) and 95% CIs for time‐to‐event outcomes. We pooled the individual study effects using the random‐effects model. Estimates lower than one indicate that mycophenolate mofetil was favored over methotrexate. 
