Background
As the incidence and prevalence of prostate cancer continue to rise, the number of men needing help and support to assist them in coping with disease and treatment‐related symptoms and their psychosocial effects is likely to increase. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions for men with prostate cancer in improving quality of life (QoL), self‐efficacy and knowledge and in reducing distress, uncertainty and depression. 
Search methods
We searched for trials using a range of electronic databases including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE and PsycINFO to October 2013, together with handsearching of journals and reference lists. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of psychosocial interventions for men at any stage of prostate cancer. We included psychosocial interventions that explicitly used one or a combination of the following approaches: cognitive behavioural, psychoeducational, supportive and counselling. Interventions had to be delivered or facilitated by trained or lay personnel. 
Data collection and analysis
Pairs of review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We analysed data using standardised mean differences (SMDs), random‐effects models and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). 
Main results
Nineteen studies comparing psychosocial interventions versus usual care in a total of 3204 men with prostate cancer were included in this review. All but three of these studies were conducted in the United States. 
Men in the psychosocial intervention group had a small, statistically significant improvement in the physical component of general health–related quality of life (GHQoL) at end of intervention (1414 participants, SMD 0.12, 95% CI 0.01 to 0.22) based on low‐quality evidence. A small improvement in favour of psychosocial interventions (SMD 0.24, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.47) was also seen in the physical component of GHQoL at end of intervention for group‐based interventions. No clear evidence of benefit was found for GHQoL scores at end of intervention with individual‐based interventions compared with controls. Also, no clear evidence suggested that psychosocial interventions were beneficial in improving the physical component of GHQoL at four to six and at eight to 12 months post‐intervention. In addition, no clear evidence showed benefit associated with psychosocial interventions for the mental component of GHQoL at end of intervention (1416 participants, SMD ‐0.04, 95% CI ‐0.15 to 0.06) based on moderate‐quality evidence. Results for the mental component of GHQoL at four to six and at eight to 12 months post‐intervention were compatible with benefit and harm. At end of intervention, cancer‐related QoL showed a small improvement following psychosocial interventions (SMD 0.21, 95% CI 0.04 to 0.39), but at eight and 12 months, the effect was compatible with benefit and harm. For prostate cancer–specific and symptom‐related QoL, the differences between groups were not significant. 
