Most progress has been made in patients with advanced renal cancer of the clear cell subtype, a condition with a clearly defined molecular pathology promoting angiogenesis. In systemically untreated patients, two approaches to angiogenesis inhibition have demonstrated benefit. Compared with interferon‐alfa monotherapy, oral sunitinib improved multiple outcomes including overall survival (18% risk reduction for death; median survival improved from 21.8 to 26.4 months, P = 0.049) without correction for crossover) in patients with mostly good or moderate prognosis. In the same setting, two studies have shown that the addition of biweekly intravenous bevacizumab to interferon‐alfa also improved the chance of major remission and prolonged progression‐free survival. These two bevacizumab plus interferon studies each observed improved overall survival approaching statistical significance (each study observed a 14% risk reduction for death). Additional anti‐angiogenesis agents, such as pazopanib and tivozanib, are in earlier stages of evaluation.  After progression of clear cell disease on prior cytokine therapy, oral sorafenib results in a better quality of life than placebo. In patients with clear cell disease with progression on or within 6 months of first‐line targeted therapy with sunitinib or sorafenib, the targeted oral mTOR (mammalian target of rapamycin) inhibitor everolimus resulted in prolonged disease‐free survival without detriment to quality of life. Remissions were very infrequent and no improvement in overall survival was observed in this study where the majority of placebo‐assigned patients received everolimus at disease progression.  In untreated patients with unselected renal cancer histology and poor prognostic features, weekly intravenous temsirolimus, an mTOR inhibitor, improved outcomes compared with interferon‐alfa (median overall survival improved from 7.3 to 10.9 months, P = 0.008). Of particular interest, an exploratory analysis observed a marked reduction in hazard for death in the non‐clear cell subgroup.  Combinations of targeted agents are being evaluated, but toxicity is problematic. 