Background
In the treatment of urothelial carcinoma of the bladder, we are currently uncertain of the benefits and harms of standard pelvic lymph node dissection (PLND) compared to extended PLND. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of extended versus standard PLND in patients undergoing cystectomy to treat muscle‐invasive (cT2 and cT3) and treatment‐refractory, non‐muscle‐invasive (cT1 with or without carcinoma in situ) urothelial carcinoma of the bladder. 
Search methods
We performed a comprehensive literature search using multiple databases (PubMed, Embase, Cochrane Controlled Trials, Web of Science, and LILACS), trial registries, and conference proceedings published up to April 29, 2019, with no restrictions on the language or status of publication. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials in which participants underwent radical cystectomy (RC) for muscle‐invasive or therapy‐refractory non‐muscle‐invasive urothelial carcinoma of the bladder with either an extended PLND with a superior extent reaching as far cranially as the inferior mesenteric vein, or a standard PLND with a superior extent of the bifurcation of the internal and external iliac artery, with otherwise the same anatomical boundaries. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the included studies and extracted data from them for the primary outcomes: time to death from any cause, time to death from bladder cancer and Clavien‐Dindo classification of surgical complications grade III‐V, and the secondary outcomes: time to recurrence, Clavien‐Dindo I‐II complications and disease‐specific quality of life. 
We performed statistical analyses using a random‐effects model and rated the certainty of evidence according to the GRADE approach. 
Main results
The search identified one multicenter trial based in Germany that enrolled 401 participants with histologically confirmed T1 grade 3 or muscle‐invasive urothelial carcinoma. The median age was 67 years (range: 59 to 74) and the majority of participants were male (78.3%). No participant received neoadjuvant chemotherapy; a small subset received adjuvant chemotherapy (14.5%). 
Primary outcomes  
Our results indicate that extended PLND may reduce the risk of death from any cause over time as compared to standard PLND, but the confidence interval includes the possibility of no effect (hazard ratio [HR]: 0.78, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.57 to 1.07, 401 participants, low‐certainty evidence). After five years of follow‐up, this may result in 83 fewer deaths (95% CI: 174 fewer to 24 more overall deaths) per 1000 participants: 420 deaths for extended PLND compared to 503 deaths per 1000 for standard PLND. We downgraded the certainty of evidence by two levels due to study limitations and imprecision. 
Our results indicate that extended PLND may reduce the risk of death from bladder cancer over time as compared to standard PLND but, again, the confidence interval includes the possibility of no effect (HR: 0.70, 95% CI: 0.45 to 1.07, participants = 401, low‐certainty evidence). After five years of follow‐up, this corresponds to 91 fewer deaths per 1000 participants (95% CI: 176 fewer to 19 more bladder cancer deaths): 264 deaths for extended PLND compared to 355 deaths per 1000 for standard PLND. We downgraded the certainty of evidence by two levels due to study limitations and imprecision. 
Based on follow‐up of up to 30 days, we are uncertain whether extended PLND leads to more grade III‐V complications as compared to standard PLND, because of study limitations and imprecision (risk ratio [RR]: 1.13, 95% CI: 0.84 to 1.52, participants = 401, very low‐certainty evidence). 
