Background
Malignant germ cell tumour of the ovary occurs in up to 0.07% of woman globally. Due to its rarity, evidence for treatment is lacking and often extrapolates clinical trial results of testicular germ cell cancers. The investigation on this rare tumour is further compounded by the fact that its occurrence in the adult population is even less compared to their paediatric counterpart. At present, the effectiveness of chemotherapy, regardless of stage in malignant germ cell tumour of the ovary is not entirely clear. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of chemotherapy in adult women with early stage, advanced and recurrent malignant germ cell ovarian cancers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Issue 1, 2010, Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register, MEDLINE and EMBASE up to April 2010. We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings and reference lists of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs and non‐randomised studies that compared systemic therapy in adult women diagnosed with germ cell ovarian cancer who have confirmed pathological diagnoses. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed whether potentially relevant studies met the inclusion criteria, abstracted data and assessed risk of bias. 
Main results
We found one RCT and one retrospective study that met our inclusion criteria. The data from these studies were too sparse to adequately assess the effectiveness and safety of adjuvant chemotherapy in the treatment of malignant germ cell ovarian cancer. All comparisons were restricted to single study analyses and this review was only based on 32 women, so it was not adequately powered to detect differences in survival. Adverse effects of treatment and recurrence‐free survival were incompletely documented and QoL was not reported in any of the studies.We did not find any studies that reported specifically on adults so there were problems in separating data on adults and children in many of the potentially relevant studies. 
