Background
Ear discharge (otorrhoea) is common in children with grommets (ventilation/tympanostomy tubes); the proportion of children developing discharge ranges from 25% to 75%. The most common treatment strategies include oral broad‐spectrum antibiotics, antibiotic eardrops or those containing a combination of antibiotic(s) and a corticosteroid, and initial observation. Important drivers for one strategy over the other are concerns over the side effects of oral antibiotics and the potential ototoxicity of antibiotic eardrops. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of current treatment strategies for children with ear discharge occurring at least two weeks following grommet (ventilation tube) insertion. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the ENT Trials Register, CENTRAL (2016, Issue 5), multiple databases and additional sources for published and unpublished trials (search date 23 June 2016). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing at least two of the following: oral antibiotics, oral corticosteroids, antibiotic eardrops (with or without corticosteroid), corticosteroid eardrops, microsuction cleaning of the ear canal, saline rinsing of the ear canal, placebo or no treatment. The main comparison of interest was antibiotic eardrops (with or without corticosteroid) versus oral antibiotics. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Primary outcomes were: proportion of children with resolution of ear discharge at short‐term follow‐up (less than two weeks), adverse events and serious complications. Secondary outcomes were: proportion of children with resolution of ear discharge at intermediate‐ (two to four weeks) and long‐term (four to 12 weeks) follow‐up, proportion of children with resolution of ear pain and fever at short‐term follow‐up, duration of ear discharge, proportion of children with chronic ear discharge, ear discharge recurrences, tube blockage, tube extrusion, health‐related quality of life and hearing. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome; this is indicated in italics. 
Main results
We included nine studies, evaluating a range of treatments, with 2132 children who developed acute ear discharge beyond the immediate postoperative period. We judged the risk of bias to be low to moderate in most studies. 
Antibiotic eardrops (with or without corticosteroid) versus oral antibiotics 
Antibiotic eardrops with or without corticosteroid were more effective than oral antibiotics in terms of: 
‐ resolution of discharge at one week (one study, 42 children, ciprofloxacin eardrops versus amoxicillin: 77% versus 30%; risk ratio (RR) 2.58, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.27 to 5.22; moderate‐quality evidence); 
‐ resolution of discharge at two weeks (one study, 153 children, bacitracin‐colistin‐hydrocortisone eardrops versus amoxicillin‐clavulanate: 95% versus 56%; RR 1.70, 95% CI 1.38 to 2.08; moderate‐quality evidence); 
‐ duration of discharge (two studies, 233 children, ciprofloxacin eardrops versus amoxicillin: median 4 days versus 7 days and bacitracin‐colistin‐hydrocortisone eardrops versus amoxicillin‐clavulanate: 4 days versus 5 days; moderate‐quality evidence); 
