Background
Depression is a common mental disorder. It affects millions of people worldwide and is considered by the World Health Organization (WHO) to be one of the leading causes of disability. Electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) is a well‐established treatment for severe depression. Intravenous anaesthetic medication is used to minimize subjective unpleasantness and adverse side effects of the induced tonic‐clonic seizure. The influence of different anaesthetic medications on the successful reduction of depressive symptoms and adverse effects is unclear. 
Objectives
This review evaluated the effects of different regimens of intravenous sedatives and hypnotics on anti‐depression efficacy, recovery and seizure duration in depressed adults undergoing ECT. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (2012, Issue 12); MEDLINE via Ovid SP (from 1966 to 31 December 2012); and EMBASE via Ovid SP (from 1966 to 31 December 2012). We handsearched related journals and applied no language restrictions. We reran the search in Feburary 2017. Four potential new studies of interest were added to a list of ‘Studies awaiting Classification' and will be incorporated into the formal review findings during the review update. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and cross‐over trials evaluating the effects of different intravenous sedatives and hypnotics for ECT. We excluded studies and trials using placebo or inhalational anaesthetics and studies that used no anaesthetic. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. When possible, data were pooled and risk ratios (RRs) and mean differences (MDs), each with 95% confidence intervals (CIs), were computed using the Cochrane Review Manager statistical package (RevMan). 
Main results
We included in the review 18 RCTs (599 participants; published between 1994 and 2012). Most of the included trials were at high risk of bias. 
We analysed the results of studies comparing six different intravenous anaesthetics.
Only a few studies comparing propofol with methohexital (four studies) and with thiopental (three studies) could be pooled. 
No difference was noted in the reduction of depression scores observed in participants treated with propofol compared with methohexital (low‐quality evidence). These four studies were not designed to detect differences in depression scores. 
