Background
Combination antiretroviral therapy administered to HIV‐infected individuals has been shown to decrease viral replication, improve immunologic function and delay the progression of HIV infection. However, because patient adherence to complicated combination‐therapy antiretroviral regimens is difficult and because of concerns regarding the cumulative toxicity of antiretroviral drugs, regimens that utilize fewer antiretroviral agents are desirable. 
Objectives
To compare the use three‐ or four‐ versus two‐drug antiretroviral maintenance regimens following successful initial therapy for HIV infection. 
Search methods
The following electronic databases were searched for relevant randomized trials or reviews:  1. MEDLINE for the years 1982‐May 2003 using the search terms human immunodeficiency virus, antiretroviral therapy, maintenance therapy, zidovudine, lamivudine, indinavir, stavudine, saquinivir, nelfinavir, didanosine, zalcitabine, ritonovir, AIDS, anti‐HIV agents, HIV infection and HIV seropositivity  2. AIDSLINE for the years 1982‐ May 2003 using the search terms antiretroviral therapy, maintenance therapy, zidovudine, lamidvudine, indinavir, stavudine, saquinivir, nelfinavir, didanosine, zalcitabine, ritonovir, anti‐HIV agents  3. The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews, Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effectiveness and the Cochrane Clinical Trials Register in the Cochrane Library, through May 2003  4. AIDSTRIALS, a specialist registry of current and completed trials maintained by the U.S. National Library of Medicine through May 2003. 
The abstracts of relevant conferences, including the International Conferences on AIDS, the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections, the Infectious Disease Society of America annual meeting and the Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy, as indexed by AIDSLINE, were also reviewed. Reference lists of all review articles and primary articles identified were also searched. 
