Background
This is the second update of previously published reviews in the Cochrane Library (2015, first update 2017). Interleukin‐5 (IL‐5) is the main cytokine involved in the proliferation, maturation, activation and survival of eosinophils, which cause airway inflammation and are a classic feature of asthma. Studies of monoclonal antibodies targeting IL‐5 or its receptor (IL‐5R) suggest they reduce asthma exacerbations, improve health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and lung function in appropriately selected patients, justifying their inclusion in the latest guidelines. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of therapies targeting IL‐5 signalling (anti‐IL‐5 or anti‐IL‐5Rα) with placebo on exacerbations, health‐related quality‐of‐life (HRQoL) measures and lung function in adults and children with chronic asthma, and specifically in those with eosinophilic asthma refractory to existing treatments. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and two trials registers, manufacturers' websites, and reference lists of included studies. The most recent search was 7 February 2022. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing mepolizumab, reslizumab and benralizumab versus placebo in adults and children with asthma. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and analysed outcomes using a random‐effects model. We used standard methods expected by Cochrane. 
Main results
Seventeen studies on about 7600 participants met the inclusion criteria. Six used mepolizumab, five used reslizumab, and six used benralizumab. One study using benralizumab was terminated early due to sponsor decision and contributed no data. The studies were predominantly on people with severe eosinophilic asthma, which was similarly but variably defined. One was in children aged 6 to 17 years; nine others included children over 12 years but did not report results by age group separately. We deemed the overall risk of bias to be low, with all studies contributing data of robust methodology. We considered the certainty of the evidence for all comparisons to be high overall using the GRADE scheme, except for intravenous (IV) mepolizumab and subcutaneous (SC) reslizumab because these are not currently licensed delivery routes. 
The anti‐IL‐5 treatments assessed reduced rates of 'clinically significant' asthma exacerbation (defined by treatment with systemic corticosteroids for three days or more) by approximately half in participants with severe eosinophilic asthma on standard care (at least medium‐dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS)) with poorly controlled disease (either two or more exacerbations in the preceding year or Asthma Control Questionnaire (ACQ) score of 1.5 or more), except for reslizumab SC. The rate ratios for these effects were 0.45 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.36 to 0.55; high‐certainty evidence) for mepolizumab SC, 0.53 (95% CI 0.44 to 0.64; moderate‐certainty evidence) for mepolizumab IV, 0.43 (95% CI 0.33 to 0.55; high‐certainty evidence) for reslizumab IV, and 0.59 (95% CI 0.52 to 0.66; high‐certainty evidence) for benralizumab SC. Non‐eosinophilic participants treated with benralizumab also showed a significant reduction in exacerbation rates, an effect not seen with reslizumab IV, albeit in only one study. No data were available for non‐eosinophilic participants treated with mepolizumab. 
There were improvements in validated HRQoL scores with all anti‐IL‐5 agents in severe eosinophilic asthma. This met the minimum clinically important difference (MCID) for the broader St. George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ; 4‐point change) for benralizumab only, but the improvement in the ACQ and Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire (AQLQ), which focus on asthma symptoms, fell short of the MCID (0.5 point change for both ACQ and AQLQ) for all of the interventions. The evidence for an improvement in HRQoL scores in non‐eosinophilic participants treated with benralizumab and reslizumab was weak, but the tests for subgroup difference were negative. 
All anti‐IL‐5 treatments produced small improvements in mean pre‐bronchodilator forced expiratory flow in one second (FEV1) of between 0.08 L and 0.15 L in eosinophilic participants, which may not be sufficient to be detected by patients. 
