Background
Melanoma is one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer, with the potential to metastasise to other parts of the body via the lymphatic system and the bloodstream. Melanoma accounts for a small percentage of skin cancer cases but is responsible for the majority of skin cancer deaths. Various imaging tests can be used with the aim of detecting metastatic spread of disease following a primary diagnosis of melanoma (primary staging) or on clinical suspicion of disease recurrence (re‐staging). Accurate staging is crucial to ensuring that patients are directed to the most appropriate and effective treatment at different points on the clinical pathway. Establishing the comparative accuracy of ultrasound, computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), and positron emission tomography (PET)‐CT imaging for detection of nodal or distant metastases, or both, is critical to understanding if, how, and where on the pathway these tests might be used. 
Objectives
Primary objectives  
We estimated accuracy separately according to the point in the clinical pathway at which imaging tests were used. Our objectives were: 
• to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound or PET‐CT for detection of nodal metastases before sentinel lymph node biopsy in adults with confirmed cutaneous invasive melanoma; and 
• to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound, CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for whole body imaging in adults with cutaneous invasive melanoma: 
○ for detection of any metastasis in adults with a primary diagnosis of melanoma (i.e. primary staging at presentation); and 
○ for detection of any metastasis in adults undergoing staging of recurrence of melanoma (i.e. re‐staging prompted by findings on routine follow‐up). 
We undertook separate analyses according to whether accuracy data were reported per patient or per lesion. 
Secondary objectives  
We sought to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound, CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for whole body imaging (detection of any metastasis) in mixed or not clearly described populations of adults with cutaneous invasive melanoma. 
For study participants undergoing primary staging or re‐staging (for possible recurrence), and for mixed or unclear populations, our objectives were: 
• to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound, CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for detection of nodal metastases; 
• to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound, CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for detection of distant metastases; and 
• to determine the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound, CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for detection of distant metastases according to metastatic site. 
Search methods
We undertook a comprehensive search of the following databases from inception up to August 2016: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials; MEDLINE; Embase; CINAHL; CPCI; Zetoc; Science Citation Index; US National Institutes of Health Ongoing Trials Register; NIHR Clinical Research Network Portfolio Database; and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We studied reference lists as well as published systematic review articles. 
Selection criteria
We included studies of any design that evaluated ultrasound (with or without the use of fine needle aspiration cytology (FNAC)), CT, MRI, or PET‐CT for staging of cutaneous melanoma in adults, compared with a reference standard of histological confirmation or imaging with clinical follow‐up of at least three months' duration. We excluded studies reporting multiple applications of the same test in more than 10% of study participants. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted all data using a standardised data extraction and quality assessment form (based on the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies 2 (QUADAS‐2)). We estimated accuracy using the bivariate hierarchical method to produce summary sensitivities and specificities with 95% confidence and prediction regions. We undertook analysis of studies allowing direct and indirect comparison between tests. We examined heterogeneity between studies by visually inspecting the forest plots of sensitivity and specificity and summary receiver operating characteristic (ROC) plots. Numbers of identified studies were insufficient to allow formal investigation of potential sources of heterogeneity. 
