Background
Focal cerebral ischaemia causes release of excitatory amino acid (EAA) neurotransmitters, principally glutamate, with resultant over‐stimulation of EAA receptors and downstream pathways. Excess glutamate release is a pivotal event in the evolution of irreversible ischaemic damage in animal models of ischaemia, and drugs that modulate glutamate action either by inhibiting its release, or blocking post‐synaptic receptors, are potent neuroprotective agents. Many clinical trials with EAA modulating drugs have been conducted, none individually demonstrating efficacy. 
Objectives
To synthesise all the available data on all different classes of EAA modulators and to evaluate evidence of effects on outcome systematically. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (last searched May 2001). In addition, we searched MEDLINE and EMBASE, handsearched conference proceedings from European, International, American Heart Association and Princeton conferences on Stroke; American Neurological Association and American Academy of Neurology meetings from 1992 to 2001; and had direct contact with individual investigators and pharmaceutical companies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised, controlled studies giving agents with pharmacological properties that included modification of release of EAAs, or blockade of EAA receptors, in stroke within 24 hours of onset. Efficacy analysis was restricted to trials with a parallel group design: dose escalation studies were excluded. Intention‐to‐treat analyses were performed on all data. Outcome had to be reported in terms of death or dependence one to 12 months after the acute event. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were available for 36 of 41 relevant trials identified, involving 11,209 participants. Data were unavailable for 632 participants (517 in trials fulfilling criteria for efficacy analysis). Seven trials did not report disability data, which were available for 29 trials involving 10,802 participants. Twenty‐one of these trials, involving 10,342 participants, were parallel group studies included in the primary efficacy analysis. Efficacy analysis included data derived from nine trials not primarily designed to assess efficacy (1022 participants). The primary (efficacy) end‐point was the proportion of patients dead or disabled at final follow up (defined by Barthel Index < 60 at three months by preference). Mortality was a secondary end‐point. Drugs were considered as individual agents, and also grouped principally into categories of ion channel modulators (glutamate release inhibition) and NMDA antagonists. 
