Background
Endometriosis is a condition characterised by the presence of ectopic deposits of endometrial‐like tissue outside the uterus, usually in the pelvis. The impact of laparoscopic treatment on overall pain is uncertain and a significant proportion of women will require further surgery. Therefore, adjuvant medical therapies following surgery, such as the levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine device (LNG‐IUD), have been considered to reduce recurrence of symptoms.  
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of post‐operative LNG‐IUD in women with symptomatic endometriosis. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases from inception to January 2021: The Specialised Register of the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group, CENTRAL (which now includes records from two trial registries), MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, LILACS and Epistemonikos. We handsearched citation lists of relevant publications, review articles, abstracts of scientific meetings and included studies. We contacted experts in the field for information about any additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing women undergoing surgical treatment of endometriosis with uterine preservation who were assigned to LNG‐IUD insertion, versus control conditions including expectant management, post‐operative insertion of placebo (inert intrauterine device), or other medical treatment such as gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone agonist (GnRH‐a) drugs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies for inclusion, and extracted data to allow for an intention‐to‐treat analysis. For dichotomous data, we calculated the risk ratio (RR) and 95% confidence interval (CI) using the Mantel‐Haenszel fixed‐effect method. For continuous data, we calculated the mean difference (MD) and 95% CI using the inverse variance fixed‐effect method. 
Main results
Four RCTs were included, with a total of 157 women. Two studies are ongoing. The GRADE certainty of evidence was very low to low. The certainty of evidence was graded down primarily for serious risk of bias and imprecision. 
