Background
Eczema is a common skin condition. Although topical corticosteroids have been a first‐line treatment for eczema for decades, there are uncertainties over their optimal use. 
Objectives
To establish the effectiveness and safety of different ways of using topical corticosteroids for treating eczema. 
Search methods
We searched databases to January 2021 (Cochrane Skin Specialised Register; CENTRAL; MEDLINE; Embase; GREAT) and five clinical trials registers. We checked bibliographies from included trials to identify further trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials in adults and children with eczema that compared at least two strategies of topical corticosteroid use. We excluded placebo comparisons, other than for trials that evaluated proactive versus reactive treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methods, with GRADE certainty of evidence for key findings. Primary outcomes were changes in clinician‐reported signs and relevant local adverse events. Secondary outcomes were patient‐reported symptoms and relevant systemic adverse events. For local adverse events, we prioritised abnormal skin thinning as a key area of concern for healthcare professionals and patients. 
Main results
We included 104 trials (8443 participants). Most trials were conducted in high‐income countries (81/104), most likely in outpatient or other hospital settings. We judged only one trial to be low risk of bias across all domains. Fifty‐five trials had high risk of bias in at least one domain, mostly due to lack of blinding or missing outcome data. 
Stronger‐potency versus weaker‐potency topical corticosteroids 
Sixty‐three trials compared different potencies of topical corticosteroids: 12 moderate versus mild, 22 potent versus mild, 25 potent versus moderate, and 6 very potent versus potent. Trials were usually in children with moderate or severe eczema, where specified, lasting one to five weeks. The most reported outcome was Investigator Global Assessment (IGA) of clinician‐reported signs of eczema. 
We pooled four trials that compared moderate‐ versus mild‐potency topical corticosteroids (420 participants). Moderate‐potency topical corticosteroids probably result in more participants achieving treatment success, defined as cleared or marked improvement on IGA (52% versus 34%; odds ratio (OR) 2.07, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.41 to 3.04; moderate‐certainty evidence). We pooled nine trials that compared potent versus mild‐potency topical corticosteroids (392 participants). Potent topical corticosteroids probably result in a large increase in number achieving treatment success (70% versus 39%; OR 3.71, 95% CI 2.04 to 6.72; moderate‐certainty evidence). We pooled 15 trials that compared potent versus moderate‐potency topical corticosteroids (1053 participants). There was insufficient evidence of a benefit of potent topical corticosteroids compared to moderate topical corticosteroids (OR 1.33, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.89; moderate‐certainty evidence). We pooled three trials that compared very potent versus potent topical corticosteroids (216 participants). The evidence is uncertain with a wide confidence interval (OR 0.53, 95% CI 0.13 to 2.09; low‐certainty evidence). 
Twice daily or more versus once daily application 
We pooled 15 of 25 trials in this comparison (1821 participants, all reported IGA). The trials usually assessed adults and children with moderate or severe eczema, where specified, using potent topical corticosteroids, lasting two to six weeks. 
Applying potent topical corticosteroids only once a day probably does not decrease the number achieving treatment success compared to twice daily application (OR 0.97, 95% CI 0.68 to 1.38; 15 trials, 1821 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
