Background
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are a major cause of disability and the leading cause of death worldwide. To reduce mortality and morbidity, prevention strategies such as following an optimal diet are crucial. In recent years, low‐gluten and gluten‐free diets have gained strong popularity in the general population. However, study results on the benefits of a gluten‐reduced or gluten‐free diet are conflicting, and it is unclear whether a gluten‐reduced diet has an effect on the primary prevention of CVD. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of a gluten‐reduced or gluten‐free diet for the primary prevention of CVD in the general population. 
Search methods
We systematically searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and Web of Science up to June 2021 without language restrictions or restrictions regarding publication status. Additionally, we searched ClinicalTrials.gov for ongoing or unpublished trials and checked reference lists of included studies as well as relevant systematic reviews for additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We planned to include randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and non‐randomised studies of interventions (NRSIs), such as prospective cohort studies, comparing a low‐gluten or gluten‐free diet or providing advice to decrease gluten consumption with no intervention, diet as usual, or a reference gluten‐intake category. The population of interest comprised adults from the general population, including those at increased risk for CVD (primary prevention). We excluded cluster‐RCTs, case‐control studies, studies focusing on participants with a previous myocardial infarction and/or stroke, participants who have undergone a revascularisation procedure as well as participants with angina or angiographically‐defined coronary heart disease, with a confirmed diagnosis of coeliac disease or with type 1 diabetes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed eligibility of studies in a two‐step procedure following Cochrane methods. Risk of bias (RoB) was assessed using the Cochrane risk of bias tool (RoB2) and the 'Risk Of Bias In Non‐randomised Studies — of Interventions' (ROBINS‐I) tool, and the certainty of evidence was rated using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
One RCT and three NRSIs (with an observational design reporting data on four cohorts: Health Professionals Follow‐up Study (HPFS), Nurses' Health Study (NHS‐I), NHS‐II, UK Biobank) met the inclusion criteria. The RCT was conducted in Italy (60 participants, mean age 41 ± 12.1 years), two NRSIs (three cohorts, HPFS, NHS‐I, NHS II) were conducted across the USA (269,282 health professionals aged 24 to 75 years) and one NRSI (Biobank cohort) was conducted across the UK (159,265 participants aged 49 to 62 years). Two NRSIs reported that the lowest gluten intake ranged between 0.0 g/day and 3.4 g/day and the highest gluten intake between 6.2 g/day and 38.4 g/day. The NRSI reporting data from the UK Biobank referred to a median gluten intake of 8.5 g/day with an interquartile range from 5.1 g/day to 12.4 g/day without providing low‐ and high‐intake categories. 
Cardiovascular mortality 
From a total of 269,282 participants, 3364 (1.3%) died due to cardiovascular events during 26 years of follow‐up. Low‐certainty evidence may show no association between gluten intake and cardiovascular mortality (adjusted hazard ratio (HR) for low‐ versus high‐gluten intake 1.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.95 to 1.06; 2 NRSIs (3 cohorts)). 
