Background
Osteomyelitis (both acute and chronic) is one of the most common infectious complications in people with sickle cell disease. There is no standardized approach to antibiotic therapy and treatment is likely to vary from country to country. Thus, there is a need to identify the efficacy and safety of different antibiotic treatment approaches for people with sickle cell disease suffering from osteomyelitis. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Objectives
To determine whether an empirical antibiotic treatment approach (monotherapy or combination therapy) is effective and safe as compared to pathogen‐directed antibiotic treatment and whether this effectiveness and safety is dependent on different treatment regimens, age or setting. 
Search methods
We searched The Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearching of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. We also searched the LILACS database (1982 to 20 October 2016), African Index Medicus (20 October 2016), ISI Web of Knowledge (20 October 2016) and clinical trials registries (19 September 2019). 
Date of most recent search of the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register: 18 September 2019. 
Selection criteria
We searched for published or unpublished randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials. 
Data collection and analysis
Each author intended to independently extract data and assess trial quality by standard Cochrane methodologies, but no eligible randomised controlled trials were identified. 
Main results
This update was unable to find any randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials on antibiotic treatment approaches for osteomyelitis in people with sickle cell disease. 
Authors' conclusions
We were unable to identify any relevant trials on the efficacy and safety of the antibiotic treatment approaches for people with sickle cell disease suffering from osteomyelitis. Randomised controlled trials are needed to establish the optimum antibiotic treatment for this condition, however, we do not envisage further trials of this intervention will be conducted, and hence the review will no longer be regularly updated. 
