Background
Plasmodium vivax malaria has a persistent liver stage that causes relapse of the disease and continued P vivax transmission. Primaquine (PQ) is used to clear the liver stage of the parasite, but treatment is required for 14 days. Primaquine also causes haemolysis in people with glucose‐6‐phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency. Tafenoquine (TQ) is a new alternative to PQ with a longer half‐life and can be used as a single‐dose treatment. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of tafenoquine 300 mg (single dose) on preventing P vivax relapse. 
Search methods
We searched the following up to 3 June 2020: the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; CENTRAL; MEDLINE; Embase; and three other databases. We also searched the WHO International Clinical Trial Registry Platform and the metaRegister of Controlled Trials for ongoing trials using "tafenoquine" and "malaria" as search terms up to 3 June 2020. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that gave TQ to prevent relapse in people with P vivax malaria. We planned to include trials irrespective of whether participants had been screened for G6PD enzyme deficiency. 
Data collection and analysis
All review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. As true relapse and reinfection are difficult to differentiate in people living in endemic areas, studies report "recurrences" of infection as a proxy for relapse. We carried out meta‐analysis where appropriate, and gave estimates as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
Three individually randomized RCTs met our inclusion criteria, all in endemic areas, and thus reporting recurrence. Trials compared TQ with PQ or placebo, and all participants received chloroquine (CQ) to treat the asexual infection). In all trials, pregnant and G6PD‐deficient people were excluded. 
Tafenoquine 300 mg single dose versus no treatment for relapse prevention 
Two trials assessed this comparison. TQ 300 mg single dose reduces P vivax recurrences compared to no antihypnozoite treatment during a six‐month follow‐up, but there is moderate uncertainty around effect size (RR 0.32, 95% CI 0.12 to 0.88; 2 trials, 504 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
In people with normal G6PD status, there is probably little or no difference in any type of adverse events (2 trials, 504 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). However, we are uncertain if TQ causes more serious adverse events (2 trials, 504 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). Both RCTs reported a total of 23 serious adverse events in TQ groups (One RCT reported 21 events) and a majority (15 events) were a drop in haemoglobin level by > 3g/dl (or >30% reduction from baseline). 
Tafenoquine 300 mg single dose versus primaquine 15 mg/day for 14 days for relapse prevention 
Three trials assessed this comparison. There is probably little or no difference between TQ and PQ in preventing recurrences (proxy measure for relapse) up to six months of follow‐up (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.8 to 1.34; 3 trials, 747 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
