Background
Typhoid and paratyphoid are febrile illnesses, due to a bacterial infection, which remain common in many low‐ and middle‐income countries. The World Health Organization (WHO) currently recommends the fluoroquinolone antibiotics in areas with known resistance to the older first‐line antibiotics. 
Objectives
To evaluate fluoroquinolone antibiotics for treating children and adults with enteric fever. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Infectious Disease Group Specialized Register (February 2011); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), published in The Cochrane Library (2011, Issue 2); MEDLINE (1966 to February 2011); EMBASE (1974 to February 2011); and LILACS (1982 to February 2011). We also searched the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) in February 2011. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials examining fluoroquinolone antibiotics, in people with blood, stool or bone marrow culture‐confirmed enteric fever. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the trial's methodological quality and extracted data. We calculated risk ratios (RR) for dichotomous data and mean difference for continuous data with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Comparative effectiveness has been interpreted in the context of; length of treatment, dose, year of study, known levels of antibiotic resistance, or proxy measures of resistance such as the failure rate in the comparator arm. 
Main results
Twenty‐six studies, involving 3033 patients, are included in this review.
Fluoroquinolones versus older antibiotics (chloramphenicol, co‐trimoxazole, amoxicillin and ampicillin) 
In one study from Pakistan in 2003‐04, high clinical failure rates were seen with both chloramphenicol and co‐trimoxazole, although resistance was not confirmed microbiologically. A seven‐day course of either ciprofloxacin or ofloxacin were found to be superior. Older studies of these comparisons failed to show a difference (six trials, 361 participants). 
In small studies conducted almost two decades ago, the fluoroquinolones were demonstrated to have fewer clinical failures than ampicillin and amoxicillin (two trials, 90 participants, RR 0.11, 95% CI 0.02 to 0.57). 
Fluoroquinolones versus current second‐line options (ceftriaxone, cefalexin, and azithromycin) 
The two studies comparing a seven day course of oral fluoroquinolones with three days of intravenous ceftriaxone were too small to detect important differences between antibiotics should they exist (two trials, 89 participants). 
