Background
Improvements in diagnostics and treatment for paediatric malignancies resulted in a major increase in survival. However, childhood cancer survivors (CCS) are at risk of developing adverse effects caused by multimodal treatment for their malignancy. Nephrotoxicity is a known side effect of several treatments, including cisplatin, carboplatin, ifosfamide, radiotherapy and nephrectomy, and can cause glomerular filtration rate (GFR) impairment, proteinuria, tubulopathy, and hypertension. Evidence about the long‐term effects of these treatments on renal function remains inconclusive. It is important to know the risk of, and risk factors for, early and late adverse renal effects, so that ultimately treatment and screening protocols can be adjusted. This review is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Objectives
To evaluate existing evidence on the effects of potentially nephrotoxic treatment modalities on the prevalence of renal dysfunction in survivors treated for childhood cancer with a median or mean survival of at least one year after cessation of treatment, where possible in comparison with the general population or CCS treated without potentially nephrotoxic treatment. In addition, to evaluate evidence on associated risk factors, such as follow‐up duration, age at time of diagnosis and treatment combinations, as well as the effect of doses. 
Search methods
On 31 March 2017 we searched the following electronic databases: CENTRAL, MEDLINE and Embase. In addition, we screened reference lists of relevant studies and we searched the congress proceedings of the International Society of Pediatric Oncology (SIOP) and The American Society of Pediatric Hematology/Oncology (ASPHO) from 2010 to 2016/2017. 
Selection criteria
Except for case reports, case series and studies including fewer than 20 participants, we included studies with all study designs that reported on renal function (one year or longer after cessation of treatment), in CCS treated before the age of 21 years with cisplatin, carboplatin, ifosfamide, radiation involving the kidney region, a nephrectomy, or a combination of two or more of these treatments. When not all treatment modalities were described or the study group of interest was unclear, a study was not eligible for the evaluation of prevalence. We still included it for the assessment of risk factors if it had performed a multivariable analysis. 
