Background
Lipid emulsions (LE) form a vital component of infant nutrition for critically ill, late preterm or term infants, particularly for those with gastrointestinal failure. Conventionally used soybean oil‐based LE (S‐LE) have high polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) content and phytosterols, which may contribute to adverse effects including parenteral nutrition‐associated liver disease (PNALD). 
Objectives
To compare the safety and efficacy of all LE for parenteral nutrition (PN) in term and late preterm infants (between 34 weeks' gestation and 36 weeks' and six days' gestation) with or without surgical conditions or PNALD within first six months of life, using all possible direct comparisons. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2018, Issue 5), MEDLINE (1946 to 18 June 2018), Embase (1974 to 18 June 2018), CINAHL (1982 to 18 June 2018), MIDRIS (1971 to 31 May 2018), conference proceedings, trial registries (ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO's Trials Registry), and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled studies in term and late preterm infants, with or without surgical conditions or PNALD. 
Data collection and analysis
Data collection and analysis conformed to the methods of Cochrane Neonatal. We used the GRADE approach to assess the quality of evidence for important outcomes in addition to reporting the conventional statistical significance of results. 
Main results
The review included nine randomised studies (n = 273). LE were classified in three broad groups: 1. all fish oil‐containing LE including pure fish oil (F‐LE) and multisource LE (e.g. medium‐chain triglycerides (MCT)‐olive‐fish‐soybean oil‐LE (MOFS‐LE), MCT‐fish‐soy oil‐LE (MFS‐LE) and olive‐fish‐soy‐LE (OFS‐LE)); 2. conventional pure S‐LE; 3. alternative‐LE (e.g. MCT‐soy‐LE (MS‐LE), olive‐soy‐LE (OS‐LE) and borage oil‐based LE). 
We considered four broad comparisons: 1. all fish oil LE versus non‐fish oil LE (6 studies; n = 182); 2. fish oil LE versus another fish oil LE (0 studies); 3. alternative‐LE versus S‐LE (3 studies; n = 91); 4. alternative‐LE versus another alternative‐LE (0 studies) in term and late preterm infants (0 studies), term and late preterm infants with surgical conditions (7 studies; n = 233) and term and late preterm infants with PNALD/cholestasis (2 studies; n = 40). 
PNALD/cholestasis was defined as conjugated bilirubin (Cbil) 2 mg/dL or greater and resolution of PNALD/cholestasis as Cbil less than 2 mg/dL. We put no restriction on timing of PNALD detection. There was heterogeneity in definitions and time points for detecting PNALD in the included studies. 
