Background
This review is one of six looking at the primary medical management options for patients with chronic rhinosinusitis. 
Chronic rhinosinusitis is common and is characterised by inflammation of the lining of the nose and paranasal sinuses leading to nasal blockage, nasal discharge, facial pressure/pain and loss of sense of smell. The condition can occur with or without nasal polyps. Systemic and topical antibiotics are used with the aim of eliminating infection in the short term (and some to reduce inflammation in the long term), in order to normalise nasal mucus and improve symptoms. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of systemic and topical antibiotics in people with chronic rhinosinusitis.
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trials Register; CENTRAL (2015, Issue 8); MEDLINE; EMBASE; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 29 September 2015. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with a follow‐up period of at least three months comparing systemic or topical antibiotic treatment to (a) placebo or (b) no treatment or (c) other pharmacological interventions. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Our primary outcomes were disease‐specific health‐related quality of life (HRQL), patient‐reported disease severity and the commonest adverse event ‐ gastrointestinal disturbance. Secondary outcomes included general HRQL, endoscopic nasal polyp score, computerised tomography (CT) scan score and the adverse events of suspected allergic reaction (rash or skin irritation) and anaphylaxis or other very serious reactions. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome; this is indicated in italics. 
Main results
We included five RCTs (293 participants), all of which compared systemic antibiotics with placebo or another pharmacological intervention. 
The varying study characteristics made comparison difficult. Four studies recruited only adults and one only children. Three used macrolide, one tetracycline and one a cephalosporin‐type antibiotic. Three recruited only patients with chronic rhinosinusitis without nasal polyps, one recruited patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps and one had a mixed population. Three followed up patients for 10 to 12 weeks after treatment had finished. 
Systemic antibiotics versus placebo 
Three studies compared antibiotics with placebo (176 participants).
One study (64 participants, without polyps) reported disease‐specific HRQL  using the SNOT‐20 (0 to 5, 0 = best quality of life). At the end of treatment (three months) the SNOT‐20 score was lower in the group receiving macrolide antibiotics than the placebo group (mean difference (MD) ‐0.54 points, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐0.98 to ‐0.10), corresponding to a moderate effect size favouring antibiotics (moderate quality evidence). Three months after treatment, it is uncertain if there was a difference between groups. 
