Background
Hashimoto's thyroiditis is a common auto‐immune disorder. The most common presenting symptoms may include anxiety, negative mood, depression, dry skin, cold intolerance, puffy eyes, muscle cramps and fatigue, deep voice, constipation, slow thinking and poor memory. Clinical manifestations of the disease are defined primarily by low levels of thyroid hormones; therefore it is treated by hormone replacement therapy, which usually consists of levothyroxine (LT4). Selenium might reduce antibody levels and result in a decreased dosage of LT4 and may provide other beneficial effects (e.g. on mood and health‐related quality of life). 
Objectives
To assess the effects of selenium supplementation on Hashimoto's thyroiditis.
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to 2 October 2012: CENTRAL in The Cochrane Library (2012, Issue 10), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Web of Science; we also screened reference lists of included studies and searched several online trial registries for ongoing trials (5 November 2012). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled clinical trials that assessed the effects of selenium supplementation for adults diagnosed with Hashimoto's thyroiditis. 
Data collection and analysis
Study selection, data extraction, assessment of risk of bias, and analyses were carried out by two independent review authors. We assessed the quality of the evidence of included studies using GRADE. We were unable to conduct a meta‐analysis because clinical heterogeneity between interventions that were investigated is substantial. 
Main results
Four studies at unclear to high risk of bias comprising 463 participants were included. The mean study duration was 7.5 months (range 3 to 18 months). One of our primary outcomes－'change from baseline in health related quality of life'－and two of our secondary outcomes－'change from baseline in LT4 replacement dosage at end of the study' and 'economic costs'－were not assessed in any of the studies. One study at high risk of bias showed statistically significant improvement in subjective well‐being with sodium selenite 200 μg plus titrated LT4 compared with placebo plus titrated LT4 (relative risk (RR) 4.67, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.61 to 13.50; P = 0.004; 36 participants; number needed to treat (NNT) = 2 (95% CI 2 to 3)). 
