Background
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is characterised by the clinical signs of oligo‐amenorrhoea, infertility and hirsutism. Conventional treatment of PCOS includes a range of oral pharmacological agents, lifestyle changes and surgical modalities. Beta‐endorphin is present in the follicular fluid of both normal and polycystic ovaries. It was demonstrated that the beta‐endorphin levels in ovarian follicular fluid of otherwise healthy women who were undergoing ovulation were much higher than the levels measured in plasma. Given that acupuncture impacts on beta‐endorphin production, which may affect gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) secretion, it is postulated that acupuncture may have a role in ovulation induction via increased beta‐endorphin production effecting GnRH secretion. This is an update of our previous review published in 2016. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of acupuncture treatment for oligo/anovulatory women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) for both fertility and symptom control. 
Search methods
We identified relevant studies from databases including the Gynaecology and Fertility Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CNKI, CBM and VIP. We also searched trial registries and reference lists from relevant papers. CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, CNKI and VIP searches are current to May 2018. CBM database search is to November 2015. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that studied the efficacy of acupuncture treatment for oligo/anovulatory women with PCOS. We excluded quasi‐ or pseudo‐RCTs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected the studies, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We calculated risk ratios (RR), mean difference (MD), standardised mean difference (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Primary outcomes were live birth rate, multiple pregnancy rate and ovulation rate, and secondary outcomes were clinical pregnancy rate, restored regular menstruation period, miscarriage rate and adverse events. We assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE methods. 
