Background
Fetal compromise in the term pregnancy is suspected when the following clinical indicators are present: intrauterine growth restriction (IUGR), decreased fetal movement (DFM), or when investigations such as cardiotocography (CTG) and ultrasound reveal results inconsistent with standard measurements. Pathological results would necessitate the need for immediate delivery, but the management for ‘suspicious’ results remains unclear and varies widely across clinical centres. There is clinical uncertainty as to how to best manage women presenting with a suspected term compromised baby in an otherwise healthy pregnancy. 
Objectives
To assess, using the best available evidence, the effects of immediate delivery versus expectant management of the term suspected compromised baby on neonatal, maternal and long‐term outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 May 2015) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing expectant management versus planned early delivery for women with a suspected compromised fetus from 37 weeks' gestation or more. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and assessed trial quality. Two review authors independently extracted data. Data were checked for accuracy. We assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
Of the 20 reports identified by the search strategy, we included three trials (546 participants: 269 to early delivery and 277 to expectant management), which met our inclusion criteria. Two of the trials compared outcomes in 492 pregnancies with IUGR of the fetus, and one in 54 pregnancies with oligohydramnios. All three trials were of reasonable quality and at low risk of bias. The level of evidence was graded moderate, low or very low, downgrading mostly for imprecision and for some indirectness. Overall, there was no difference in the primary neonatal outcomes of perinatal mortality (no deaths in either group, one trial, 459 women, evidence graded moderate), major neonatal morbidity (risk ratio (RR) 0.15, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.01 to 2.81, one trial, 459 women, evidence graded low), or neurodevelopmental disability/impairment at two years of age (RR 2.04, 95% CI 0.62 to 6.69,one trial, 459 women, evidence graded low). There was no difference in the risk of necrotising enterocolitis (one trial, 333 infants) or meconium aspiration (one trial, 459 infants), There was also no difference in the reported primary maternal outcomes: maternal mortality (RR 3.07, 95% CI 0.13 to 74.87, one trial, 459 women, evidence graded low), and significant maternal morbidity (RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.38 to 2.22, one trial, 459 women, evidence graded low). 
