Background
Inhaled beta‐agonist therapy is central to the management of acute asthma. This review evaluates the benefit of an additional use of intravenous beta2‐agonist agents. 
Objectives
To determine the benefit of adding intravenous (IV) beta2‐agonists to inhaled beta2‐agonist therapy for acute asthma treated in the emergency department. 
Search methods
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were identified using the Cochrane Airways Group Register which is a compilation of systematic searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, and CENTRAL as well as handsearching of 20 respiratory journals. Bibliographies from included studies and known reviews were also searched. Primary authors and content experts were contacted to identify eligible studies. The search was performed in September 2012. 
Selection criteria
Only RCTs were considered for inclusion. Studies were included if patients presented to the emergency department with acute asthma and were treated with IV beta2‐agonists with inhaled beta2‐agonist therapy and existing standard treatments versus inhaled beta2‐agonists and existing standard treatments. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and confirmed their findings with corresponding authors of trials. We obtained missing data from authors or calculated from data present in the papers. We used fixed‐effect model for odds ratios (OR) and for mean differences (MD) we used both fixed‐effect and random‐effects models and reported 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
From 109 potentially relevant studies only three (104 patients) met our inclusion criteria: Bogie 2007 (46 children), Browne 1997 (29 children) and Nowak 2010 (29 adults). Bogie 2007 investigated the addition of intravenous terbutaline to high dose nebulised albuterol in children with acute severe asthma, requiring intensive care unit (ICU) admission. Browne 1997 investigated the benefit of adding intravenous salbutamol to inhaled salbutamol in children with acute severe asthma in the emergency department. Nowak 2010 investigated addition of IV bedoradrine to standard care (nebulised albuterol, ipratropium and oral corticosteroids) among adults, and was reported as a conference abstract only. 
