Background
Dementia assessment often involves initial screening, using a brief tool, followed by more detailed assessment where required. The AD‐8 is a short questionnaire, completed by a suitable 'informant' who knows the person well. AD‐8 is designed to assess change in functional performance secondary to cognitive change. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of the informant‐based AD‐8 questionnaire, in detection of all‐cause (undifferentiated) dementia in adults. Where data were available, we described the following: the diagnostic accuracy of the AD‐8 at various predefined threshold scores; the diagnostic accuracy of the AD‐8 for each healthcare setting and the effects of heterogeneity on the reported diagnostic accuracy of the AD‐8. 
Search methods
We searched the following sources on 27 May 2014, with an update to 7 June 2018: ALOIS (Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group), MEDLINE (Ovid SP), Embase (Ovid SP), PsycINFO (Ovid SP), BIOSIS Previews (Thomson Reuters Web of Science), Web of Science Core Collection (includes Conference Proceedings Citation Index) (Thomson Reuters Web of Science), CINAHL (EBSCOhost) and LILACS (BIREME). We checked reference lists of relevant studies and reviews, used searches of known relevant studies in PubMed to track related articles, and contacted research groups conducting work on the AD‐8 to try to find additional studies. We developed a sensitive search strategy and used standardised database subject headings as appropriate. Foreign language publications were translated. 
Selection criteria
We selected those studies which included the AD‐8 to assess for the presence of dementia and where dementia diagnosis was confirmed with clinical assessment. We only included those studies where the AD‐8 was used as an informant assessment. We made no exclusions in relation to healthcare setting, language of AD‐8 or the AD‐8 score used to define a 'test positive' case. 
Data collection and analysis
We screened all titles generated by electronic database searches, and reviewed abstracts of potentially relevant studies. Two independent assessors checked full papers for eligibility and extracted data. We extracted data into two‐by‐two tables to allow calculation of accuracy metrics for individual studies. We then created summary estimates of sensitivity, specificity and likelihood ratios using the bivariate approach and plotting results in receiver operating characteristic (ROC) space. We determined quality assessment (risk of bias and applicability) using the QUADAS‐2 tool. 
