Background
Viral load (VL) testing in people living with HIV (PLHIV) helps to monitor antiretroviral therapy (ART). VL is still largely tested using central laboratory‐based platforms, which have long test turnaround times and involve sophisticated equipment. VL tests with point‐of‐care (POC) platforms capable of being used near the patient are potentially easy to use, give quick results, are cost‐effective, and could replace central or reference VL testing platforms. 
Objectives
To estimate the diagnostic accuracy of POC tests to detect high viral load levels in PLHIV attending healthcare facilities. 
Search methods
We searched eight electronic databases using standard, extensive Cochrane search methods, and did not use any language, document type, or publication status limitations. We also searched the reference lists of included studies and relevant systematic reviews, and consulted an expert in the field from the World Health Organization (WHO) HIV Department for potentially relevant studies. The latest search was 23 November 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included any primary study that compared the results of a VL test with a POC platform to that of a central laboratory‐based reference test to detect high viral load in PLHIV on HIV/AIDS care or follow‐up. We included all forms of POC tests for VL as defined by study authors, regardless of the healthcare facility in which the test was conducted. We excluded diagnostic case‐control studies with healthy controls and studies that did not provide sufficient data to create the 2 × 2 tables to calculate sensitivity and specificity. We did not limit our study inclusion to age, gender, or geographical setting. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened the titles, abstracts, and full texts of the search results to identify eligible articles. They also independently extracted data using a standardized data extraction form and conducted risk of bias assessment using the Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS‐2) tool. Using participants as the unit of analysis, we fitted simplified univariable models for sensitivity and specificity separately, employing a random‐effects model to estimate the summary sensitivity and specificity at the current and commonly reported World Health Organization (WHO) threshold (≥ 1000 copies/mL). The bivariate models did not converge to give a model estimate. 
