Background
Insufficient physical activity is one of four primary risk factors for non‐communicable diseases such as stroke, heart disease, type 2 diabetes, cancer and chronic lung disease. As few as one in five children aged 5 to 17 years have the physical activity recommended for health benefits. The outside‐school hours period contributes around 30% of children's daily physical activity and presents a key opportunity for children to increase their physical activity. Testing the effects of interventions in outside‐school hours childcare settings is required to assess the potential to increase physical activity and reduce disease burden. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness, cost‐effectiveness and associated adverse events of interventions designed to increase physical activity in children aged 4 to 12 years in outside‐school hours childcare settings. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, ERIC and SportsDISCUS to identify eligible trials on 18 August 2020. We searched two databases, three trial registries, reference lists of included trials and handsearched two physical activity journals in August 2020. We contacted first and senior authors on articles identified for inclusion for ongoing or unpublished potentially relevant trials in August 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials, including cluster‐randomised controlled trials, of any intervention primarily aimed at increasing physical activity in children aged 4 to 12 years in outside‐school hours childcare settings compared to usual care. To be eligible, the interventions must have been delivered in the context of an existing outside‐school hours childcare setting (i.e. childcare that was available consistently throughout the school week/year), and not set up in the after‐school period for the purpose of research. Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts of identified papers with discrepancies resolved via a consensus discussion. A third review author was not required to resolve disagreements. 
