Background
This is an updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in the Cochrane Library, Issue 5, 2015. 
Yoga may induce relaxation and stress reduction, and influence the electroencephalogram and the autonomic nervous system, thereby controlling seizures. Yoga would be an attractive therapeutic option for epilepsy if proved effective. 
Objectives
To assess whether people with epilepsy treated with yoga:
(a) have a greater probability of becoming seizure free; (b) have a significant reduction in the frequency or duration of seizures, or both; and (c) have a better quality of life. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched the Cochrane Epilepsy Group Specialized Register (3 January 2017), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 12) in the Cochrane Library (searched 3 January 2017), MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to 3 January 2017), SCOPUS (1823 to 3 January 2017), ClinicalTrials.gov (searched 3 January 2017), the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (searched 3 January 2017), and also registries of the Yoga Biomedical Trust and the Research Council for Complementary Medicine. In addition, we searched the references of all the identified studies. No language restrictions were imposed. 
Selection criteria
The following study designs were eligible for inclusion: randomised controlled trials (RCT) of treatment of epilepsy with yoga. The studies could be double‐, single‐ or unblinded. Eligible participants were adults with uncontrolled epilepsy comparing yoga with no treatment or different behavioural treatments. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the trials for inclusion and extracted data. The following outcomes were assessed: (a) percentage of people rendered seizure free; (b) seizure frequency and duration; (c) quality of life. Analyses were on an intention‐to‐treat basis. Odds ratio (OR) with 95% confidence intervals (95% Cls) were estimated for the outcomes. 
Main results
We did not identify any new studies for this update, therefore the results are unchanged.
For the previous version of the review, the authors found two unblinded trials in people with refractory epilepsy. In total these two studies included 50 people (18 treated with yoga and 32 to control interventions). Antiepileptic drugs were continued in all the participants. Baseline phase lasted three months in both studies and treatment phase from five weeks to six months in the two trials. Randomisation was by roll of a die in one study and using a computerised randomisation table in the other one but neither study provided details of concealment of allocation and were rated as unclear risk of bias. Overall, the two studies were rated as low risk of bias (all participants were included in the analysis; all expected and pre‐expected outcomes were reported; no other sources of bias). 
