Background
Pregnant women who have previously had a caesarean birth and who have no contraindication for vaginal birth after caesarean (VBAC) may need to decide whether to choose between a repeat caesarean birth or to commence labour with the intention of achieving a VBAC. Women need information about their options and interventions designed to support decision‐making may be helpful. Decision support interventions can be implemented independently, or shared with health professionals during clinical encounters or used in mediated social encounters with others, such as telephone decision coaching services. Decision support interventions can include decision aids, one‐on‐one counselling, group information or support sessions and decision protocols or algorithms. This review considers any decision support intervention for pregnant women making birth choices after a previous caesarean birth. 
Objectives
To examine the effectiveness of interventions to support decision‐making about vaginal birth after a caesarean birth. 
Secondary objectives are to identify issues related to the acceptability of any interventions to parents and the feasibility of their implementation. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 June 2013), Current Controlled Trials (22 July 2013), the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform Search Portal (ICTRP) (22 July 2013) and reference lists of retrieved articles. We also conducted citation searches of included studies to identify possible concurrent qualitative studies. 
Selection criteria
All published, unpublished, and ongoing randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised trials with reported data of any intervention designed to support pregnant women who have previously had a caesarean birth make decisions about their options for birth. Studies using a cluster‐randomised design were eligible for inclusion but none were identified. Studies using a cross‐over design were not eligible for inclusion. Studies published in abstract form only would have been eligible for inclusion if data were able to be extracted. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently applied the selection criteria and carried out data extraction and quality assessment of studies. Data were checked for accuracy. We contacted authors of included trials for additional information. All included interventions were classified as independent, shared or mediated decision supports. Consensus was obtained for classifications. Verification of the final list of included studies was undertaken by three review authors. 
