Background
Foot ulceration affects 15 to 20% of people with diabetes. It is a major precursor to amputation in this patient group, and early and appropriate treatment provides the greatest opportunity for healing. The use of silver for its antimicrobial properties has re‐emerged, and modern wound dressings that release a sustained amount of free silver ions, are now widely used in wound management. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of silver‐containing dressings and topical agents on infection rates and healing of diabetes related foot ulcers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Wounds Group Specialised Register (Searched 8/2/10); The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library, 2010 Issue 1); Ovid MEDLINE ‐ 2007 to January Week 3 2010; Ovid MEDLINE ‐ In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations (Searched 4/2/10); Ovid EMBASE ‐ 2007 to 2010 Week 04; EBSCO CINAHL ‐ 2007 to 8 February 2010. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials and non‐randomised controlled clinical trials were considered for inclusion. Studies were included if they involved participants with Type 1 or Type 2 diabetes and related foot ulcers, met the requirements for randomisation, allocation and concealment where appropriate, and compared the intervention with a placebo or a sham dressing, an alternative non silver based dressing or no dressing, and reported outcomes that represent healing rate or infection. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently evaluated the papers identified by the search strategy against the inclusion criteria but identified no trials eligible for inclusion in the review. It was not possible to perform planned subgroup and sensitivity analysis in the absence of data. In future, if eligible trials become available, a random effects model will be applied for meta‐analysis in the presence of statistical heterogeneity (estimated using the I2 statistic). Dichotomous outcomes will be reported as risk ratios with 95% confidence intervals (CI), and continuous outcomes as weighted mean differences (WMD) with 95% CI. Statistical significance will be set at P value < 0.05 for all outcomes and the magnitude of the effect will be estimated by calculating the number needed to treat (NNT) with 95% CI. 
