Background
Preparing the cervix prior to surgical abortion is intended to make the procedure both easier and safer. Options for cervical preparation include osmotic dilators and pharmacologic agents. Many formulations and regimens are available, and recommendations from professional organizations vary for the use of preparatory techniques in women of different ages, parity or gestational age of the pregnancy. 
Objectives
To determine whether cervical preparation is necessary in the first trimester, and if so, which preparatory agent is preferred. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane, Popline, Embase, Medline and Lilacs databases for randomised controlled trials investigating the use of cervical preparatory techniques prior to first trimester surgical abortion. In addition, we hand‐searched key references and contacted authors to locate unpublished studies or studies not identified in the database searches. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials investigating any pharmacologic or mechanical method of cervical preparation, with the exception of nitric oxide donors (the subject of another Cochrane review), administered prior to first trimester surgical abortion were included. Outcome measures must have included the amount of cervical dilation achieved, the procedure duration or difficulty, side‐effects, patient satisfaction or adverse events to be included in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Trials under consideration were evaluated by considering whether inclusion criteria were met as well as methodologic quality. Fifty‐one studies were included, resulting in 24 different cervical preparation comparisons. Results are reported as odds ratios (OR) for dichotomous outcomes and weighted mean differences for continuous data. 
Main results
When compared to placebo, misoprostol (400‐600 µg given vaginally or sublingually), gemeprost, mifepristone (200 or 600 mg), prostaglandin E and F2α (2.5 mg administered intracervically) demonstrated 
larger cervical preparation effects. When misoprostol was compared to gemeprost, misoprostol was more effective in preparing the cervix and was associated with fewer gastrointestinal side‐effects. For vaginal administration, administration 2 hours prior was less effective than administration 3 hours prior to the abortion. Compared to oral misoprostol administration, the vaginal route was associated with significantly greater initial cervical dilation and lower rates of side‐effects; however, sublingual administration 2‐3 hours prior to the procedure demonstrated cervical effects superior to vaginal administration. 
When misoprostol (600 µg oral or 800 µg vaginal) was compared to mifepristone (200 mg administered 24 hours prior to procedure), misoprostol had inferior cervical preparatory effects. Compared to day‐prior laminaria tents, 200 or 400 µg vaginal misoprostol showed no differences in the need for further mechanical dilation or length of the procedure; similarly, the osmotic dilators Lamicel and Dilapan showed no differences in cervical ripening when compared to gemeprost, although gemeprost had cervical effects which were superior to laminaria tents. Older prostaglandin regimens (sulprostone, prostaglandin E2 and 
F2α) were associated with high rates of gastrointestinal side‐effects and unplanned pregnancy expulsions. Few studies reported women's satisfaction with cervical preparatory techniques. 
