Background
This is an updated version of the original Cochrane review published in Issue 5, 2015.
Cervical cancer is the fourth most common cancer among women worldwide, with estimated 569,847 new diagnoses and 311,365 deaths per year. However, incidence and stage at diagnosis vary greatly between geographic areas and are largely dependent on the availability of a robust population screening programme. For example, in Nigeria, advanced‐stage disease at presentation is common (86% to 89.3% of new cases), whereas in the UK, only 21.9% of women present with International Federation of Gynaecology and Obstetrics (FIGO) stage II+ disease. Women with advanced cancer of the cervix often need palliation for distressing symptoms, such as vaginal bleeding. Vaginal bleeding can be life threatening in advanced disease, with an incidence ranging from 0.7% to 100%. Bleeding is the immediate cause of death in 6% of women with cervical cancer and its management often poses a challenge. 
Thus, vaginal bleeding remains a common consequence of advanced cervical cancer. Currently, there is no systematic review that addresses palliative interventions for controlling vaginal bleeding caused by advanced cervical cancer. A systematic evaluation of the available palliative interventions is needed to inform decision‐making. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and safety of tranexamic acid, vaginal packing (with or without formalin‐soaked packs), interventional radiology or other interventions compared with radiotherapy for palliative treatment of vaginal bleeding in women with advanced cervical cancer. 
Search methods
The search for the original review was run in 23 March 2015, and subsequent searches for this update were run 21 March 2018. We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2018, Issue 3) in the Cochrane Library; MEDLINE via Ovid to March week 2, 2018; and Embase via Ovid to March week 12, 2018. We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings and reference lists of review articles, and contacted experts in the field. We handsearched citation lists of relevant studies. 
