Background
Neurocysticercosis is the most common parasitic infection of the brain. Epilepsy is the most common clinical presentation, though people may also present with headache, symptoms of raised intracranial pressure, hydrocephalus, and ocular symptoms depending upon the localisation of the parasitic cysts. Anthelmintic drugs, antiepileptic drugs (AEDs), and anti‐oedema drugs, such as steroids, form the mainstay of treatment. 
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review previously published in 2019.
Objectives
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of AEDs for the primary and secondary prevention of seizures in people with neurocysticercosis. 
For the question of primary prevention, we examined whether AEDs reduce the likelihood of seizures in people who had neurocysticercosis but had not had a seizure. 
For the question of secondary prevention, we examined whether AEDs reduce the likelihood of further seizures in people who had had at least one seizure due to neurocysticercosis. 
As part of primary prevention studies, we also aimed to examine which AED was beneficial in people with neurocysticercosis in terms of duration, dose, and side‐effect profile. 
Search methods
For the 2021 update of this review, we searched the Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web), MEDLINE, and LILACS to January 2021. CRS Web includes randomised or quasi‐randomised, controlled trials from CENTRAL, the Specialised Registers of Cochrane Review Groups, including Epilepsy, PubMed, Embase, ClinicalTrials.gov, and the World Health Organisation International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We also checked the reference lists of identified studies, and contacted experts and colleagues in the field to search for additional and ongoing studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials.
Single‐blind, double‐blind, or unblinded studies were eligible for inclusion.
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion and extracted the relevant data. The primary outcomes of interest were: proportion of individuals experiencing seizures, and time to first seizure post randomisation. Secondary outcomes included: seizure freedom, number of withdrawals, side effects, number of people seizure free with short or long durations of treatment, quality of life, therapy costs, hospitalisations, and mortality. 
We used an intention‐to‐treat analysis for the primary analysis. We calculated odds ratio (OR) for dichotomous data (proportion of individuals who experienced seizures, were seizure free for a specific time period (12 or 24 months), withdrew from treatment, developed drug‐related side effects or complications, were seizure‐free with each treatment policy, mortality), and planned to use mean difference (MD) for continuous data, if any continuous data were identified (quality of life, cost of treatment). We intended to evaluate time to first seizure after randomisation by calculating hazard ratios (HRs). We assessed precision using 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We stratified the analysis by treatment comparison. We also considered the duration of drug usage, co‐medications, and the length of follow‐up. 
Main results
We did not find any trials that investigated the role of AEDs in preventing seizures among people with neurocysticercosis, presenting with symptoms other than seizures. 
We did not find any trials that directly compared individual AEDs for primary prevention in people with neurocysticercosis. 
We included four trials that evaluated the efficacy of short‐term versus longer‐term AED treatment for people with solitary neurocysticercosis (identified on computed tomography (CT) scan) who presented with seizures. In total, 466 people were enrolled. These studies compared AED treatment durations of 6, 12, and 24 months. 
