Background
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the cornerstone of asthma maintenance treatment in children. Particularly among parents, there is concern about the safety of ICS as studies in children have shown reduced growth. Small‐particle‐size ICS targeting the smaller airways have improved lung deposition and effective asthma control might be achieved at lower daily doses. 
Ciclesonide is a relatively new ICS. This small‐particle ICS is a pro‐drug that is converted in the airways to an active metabolite and therefore with potentially less local (throat infection) and systemic (reduced growth) side effects. It can be inhaled once daily, thereby possibly improving adherence. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and adverse effects of ciclesonide compared to other ICS in the management of chronic asthma in children. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Airways Group Register of trials with pre‐defined terms. Additional searches of MEDLINE (via PubMed), EMBASE and Clinicalstudyresults.org were undertaken. Searches are up to date to 7 November 2012. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled parallel or cross‐over studies were eligible for the review. We included studies comparing ciclesonide with other corticosteroids both at nominally equivalent doses or lower doses of ciclesonide. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Study authors were contacted for additional information. Adverse effects information was collected from the trials. 
Main results
Six studies were included in this review (3256 children, 4 to 17 years of age). Two studies were published as conference abstracts only. Ciclesonide was compared to budesonide and fluticasone. 
Ciclesonide compared to budesonide (dose ratio 1:2): asthma symptoms and adverse effect were similar in both groups. Pooled results showed no significant difference in children who experience an exacerbation (risk ratio (RR) 2.20, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.75 to 6.43). Both studies reported that 24‐hour urine cortisol levels showed a statistically significant decrease in the budesonide group compared to the ciclesonide group. 
Ciclesonide compared to fluticasone (dose ratio 1:1): no significant differences were found for the outcome asthma symptoms. Pooled results showed no significant differences in number of patients with exacerbations (RR 1.37, 95% CI 0.58 to 3.21) and data from a study that could not be pooled in the meta‐analysis reported similar numbers of patients with exacerbations in both groups. None of the studies found a difference in adverse effects. No significant difference was found for 24‐hour urine cortisol levels between the groups (mean difference 0.54 nmol/mmol, 95% CI ‐5.92 to 7.00). 
Ciclesonide versus fluticasone (dose ratio 1:2) was assessed in one study and showed similar results between the two corticosteroids for asthma symptoms. The number of children with exacerbations was significantly higher in the ciclesonide group (RR 3.57, 95% CI 1.35 to 9.47). No significant differences were found in adverse effects (RR 0.98, 95% CI 0.81 to 1.14) and 24‐hour urine cortisol levels (mean difference 1.15 nmol/mmol, 95% CI 0.07 to 2.23). 
The quality of evidence was judged 'low' for the outcomes asthma symptoms and adverse events and 'very low' for the outcome exacerbations for ciclesonide versus budesonide (dose ratio 1:1). The quality of evidence was graded 'moderate' for the outcome asthma symptoms, 'very low' for the outcome exacerbations and 'low' for the outcome adverse events for ciclesonide versus fluticasone (dose ratio 1:1). For ciclesonide versus fluticasone (dose ratio 1:2) the quality was rated 'low' for the outcome asthma symptoms and 'very low' for exacerbations and adverse events (dose ratio 1:2). 
