Background
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), caused by narrowing of the arteries in the limbs, is increasing in incidence and prevalence as our population is ageing and as diabetes is becoming more prevalent. PAD can cause pain in the limbs while walking, known as intermittent claudication, or can be more severe and cause pain while at rest, ulceration, and ultimately gangrene and limb loss. This more severe stage of PAD is known as 'critical limb ischaemia'. Treatments for PAD include medications that help to reduce the increased risk of cardiovascular events and help improve blood flow, as well as endovascular or surgical repair or bypass of the blocked arteries. However, many people are unresponsive to medications and are not suited to surgical or endovascular treatment, leaving amputation as the last option. Gene therapy is a novel approach in which genetic material encoding for proteins that may help increase revascularisation is injected into the affected limbs of patients. This type of treatment has been shown to be safe, but its efficacy, especially regarding ulcer healing, effects on quality of life, and other symptomatic outcomes remain unknown. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of gene therapy for symptomatic peripheral arterial disease.
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched Cochrane CENTRAL, the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, MEDLINE Ovid, Embase Ovid, CINAHL, and AMED, along with trials registries (all searched 27 November 2017). We also checked reference lists of included studies and systematic reviews for further studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised studies that evaluated gene therapy versus no gene therapy in people with PAD. We excluded studies that evaluated direct growth hormone treatment or cell‐based treatments. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies, performed quality assessment, and extracted data from the included studies. We collected pertinent information on each study, as well as data for the outcomes of amputation‐free survival, ulcer healing, quality of life, amputation, all‐cause mortality, ankle brachial index, symptom scores, and claudication distance. 
Main results
We included in this review a total of 17 studies with 1988 participants (evidence current until November 2017). Three studies limited their inclusion to people with intermittent claudication, 12 limited inclusion to people with varying levels of critical limb ischaemia, and two included people with either condition. Study investigators evaluated many different types of gene therapies, using different protocols. Most studies evaluated growth factor‐encoding gene therapy, with six studies using vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF)‐encoding genes, four using hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)‐encoding genes, and three using fibroblast growth factor (FGF)‐encoded genes. Two studies evaluated hypoxia‐inducible factor 1‐alpha (HIF‐1α) gene therapy, one study used a developmental endothelial locus‐1 gene therapy, and the final study evaluated a stromal cell‐derived factor‐1 (SDF‐1) gene therapy. Most studies reported outcomes after 12 months of follow‐up, but follow‐up ranged from three months to two years. 
Overall risk of bias varied between studies, with many studies not providing sufficient detail for adequate determination of low risk of bias for many domains. Two studies did not utilise a placebo control, leading to risk of performance bias. Several studies reported in previous protocols or in their Methods sections that they would report on certain outcomes for which no data were then reported, increasing risk of reporting bias. All included studies reported sponsorships from corporate entities that led to unclear risk of other bias. The overall quality of evidence ranged from moderate to very low, generally as the result of heterogeneity and imprecision, with few or no studies reporting on outcomes. 
Evidence suggests no clear differences for the outcomes of amputation‐free survival, major amputation, and all‐cause mortality between those treated with gene therapy and those not receiving this treatment (all moderate‐quality evidence). Low‐quality evidence suggests improvement in complete ulcer healing with gene therapy (odds ratio (OR) 2.16, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.02 to 4.59; P = 0.04). We could not combine data on quality of life and can draw no conclusions at this time regarding this outcome (very low‐quality evidence). We included one study in the meta‐analysis for ankle brachial index, which showed no clear differences between treatments, but we can draw no overall association (low‐quality evidence). We combined in a meta‐analysis pain symptom scores as assessed by visual analogue scales from two studies and found no clear differences between treatment groups (very low‐quality evidence). We carried out extensive subgroup analyses by PAD classification, dosage schedule, vector type, and gene used but identified no substantial differences. 
