Background
This is an update of the Cochrane Review first published in 2010; it includes one additional study. 
Primary generalised tonic‐clonic seizures are a type of generalised seizure. Other types of seizures include: absence, myoclonic, and atonic seizures. Effective control of tonic‐clonic seizures reduces the risk of injury and death, and improves quality of life. While most people achieve seizure control with one antiepileptic drug, around 30% do not, and require a combination of antiepileptic drugs. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and tolerability of add‐on lamotrigine for drug‐resistant primary generalised tonic‐clonic seizures. 
Search methods
For the latest update, we searched these databases on 19 March 2019: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS) Web, MEDLINE Ovid, and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). The CRS includes records from the Cochrane Epilepsy Group Specialized Register, CENTRAL, Embase, and ClinicalTrials.gov. We imposed no language restrictions. We also contacted GlaxoSmithKline, manufacturers of lamotrigine. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled parallel or cross‐over trials of add‐on lamotrigine for people of any age with drug‐resistant primary generalised tonic‐clonic seizures. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard Cochrane methodology; two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, evaluated risk of bias, extracted relevant data, and GRADE‐assessed evidence. We investigated these outcomes: (1) 50% or greater reduction in primary generalised tonic‐clonic seizure frequency; (2) seizure freedom; (3) treatment withdrawal; (4) adverse effects; (5) cognitive effects; and (6) quality of life. We used an intention‐to‐treat (ITT) population for all analyses, and presented results as risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs); for adverse effects, we used 99% CIs to compensate for multiple hypothesis testing. 
Main results
We included three studies (total 300 participants): two parallel‐group studies and one cross‐over study. We assessed varied risks of bias across studies; most limitations arose from the poor reporting of methodological details. We meta‐analysed data extracted from the two parallel‐group studies, and conducted a narrative synthesis for data from the cross‐over study. 
