We included data from 76 trials with a total of 21,414 participants. Participants in these trials were predominately female (61.9%) with a mean age of 31.8 years (standard deviation [SD] 11.7 years). On the basis of data from four trials, individual cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)‐based psychotherapy may reduce repetition of SH as compared to TAU or another comparator by the end of the intervention (OR 0.35, 95% CI 0.12 to 1.02; N = 238; k = 4; GRADE: low certainty evidence), although there was imprecision in the effect estimate. At longer follow‐up time points (e.g., 6‐ and 12‐months) there was some evidence that individual CBT‐based psychotherapy may reduce SH repetition. Whilst there may be a slightly lower rate of SH repetition for dialectical behaviour therapy (DBT) (66.0%) as compared to TAU or alternative psychotherapy (68.2%), the evidence remains uncertain as to whether DBT reduces absolute repetition of SH by the post‐intervention assessment. On the basis of data from a single trial, mentalisation‐based therapy (MBT) reduces repetition of SH and frequency of SH by the post‐intervention assessment (OR 0.35, 95% CI 0.17 to 0.73; N = 134; k = 1; GRADE: high‐certainty evidence). A group‐based emotion‐regulation psychotherapy may also reduce repetition of SH by the post‐intervention assessment based on evidence from two trials by the same author group (OR 0.34, 95% CI 0.13 to 0.88; N = 83; k = 2; moderate‐certainty evidence). There is probably little to no effect for different variants of DBT on absolute repetition of SH, including DBT group‐based skills training, DBT individual skills training, or an experimental form of DBT in which participants were given significantly longer cognitive exposure to stressful events. The evidence remains uncertain as to whether provision of information and support, based on the Suicide Trends in At‐Risk Territories (START) and the SUicide‐PREvention Multisite Intervention Study on Suicidal behaviors (SUPRE‐MISS) models, have any effect on repetition of SH by the post‐intervention assessment. There was no evidence of a difference for psychodynamic psychotherapy, case management, general practitioner (GP) management, remote contact interventions, and other multimodal interventions, or a variety of brief emergency department‐based interventions. 