Background
Allergies have become more prevalent globally over the last 20 years. Dietary consumption of n‐3 (or omega 3) long chain polyunsaturated fatty acids (LCPUFA) has declined over the same period of time. This, together with the known role of n‐3 LCPUFA in inhibiting inflammation, has resulted in speculation that n‐3 LCPUFA may prevent allergy development. Dietary n‐3 fatty acids supplements may change the developing immune system of the newborn before allergic responses are established, particularly for those with a genetic predisposition to the production of the immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibody. Individuals with IgE‐mediated allergies have both the signs and symptoms of the allergic disease and a positive skin prick test (SPT) to the allergen. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of n‐3 LCPUFA supplementation in pregnant and/or breastfeeding women on allergy outcomes (food allergy, atopic dermatitis (eczema), allergic rhinitis (hay fever) and asthma/wheeze) in their children. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group’s Trials Register (6 August 2014), PubMed (1966 to 01 August 2014), CINAHL via EBSCOhost (1984 to 01 August 2014), Scopus (1995 to 01 August 2014), Web of Knowledge (1864 to 01 August 2014) and ClinicalTrials.gov (01 August 2014) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating the effect of n‐3 LCPUFA supplementation of pregnant and/or lactating women (compared with placebo or no treatment) on allergy outcomes of the infants or children. Trials using a cross‐over design and trials examining biochemical outcomes only were not eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed eligibility and trial quality and performed data extraction. Where the review authors were also investigators on trials selected, an independent reviewer assessed trial quality and performed data extraction. 
Main results
Eight trials involving 3366 women and their 3175 children were included in the review. In these trials, women were supplemented with n‐3 LCPUFA during pregnancy (five trials), lactation (two trials) or both pregnancy and lactation (one trial). All trials randomly allocated women to either a n‐3 LCPUFA supplement or a control group. The risk of bias varied across the eight included trials in this review with only two trials with a low risk of selection, performance and attrition bias. 
