Background
Burn injuries are an important health problem. They occur frequently in the head and neck region. The face is the area central to a person's identity that provides our most expressive means of communication. Topical interventions are currently the cornerstone of treatment of burns to the face. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of topical interventions on wound healing in people with facial burns of any depth. 
Search methods
In December 2019 we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated the effects of topical treatment for facial burns were eligible for inclusion in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, data extraction, risk of bias assessment and GRADE assessment of the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
In this first update, we included 12 RCTs, comprising 507 participants.
Most trials included adults admitted to specialised burn centres after recent burn injuries. 
Topical agents included antimicrobial agents (silver sulphadiazine (SSD), Aquacel‐Ag, cerium‐sulphadiazine, gentamicin cream, mafenide acetate cream, bacitracin), non‐antimicrobial agents (Moist Exposed Burn Ointment (MEBO), saline‐soaked dressings, skin substitutes (including bioengineered skin substitute (TransCyte), allograft, and xenograft (porcine Xenoderm), and miscellaneous treatments (growth hormone therapy, recombinant human granulocyte‐macrophage colony‐stimulating factor hydrogel (rhGMCS)), enzymatic debridement, and cream with Helix Aspersa extract). 
