Background
Major depressive disorders have a significant impact on children and adolescents, including on educational and vocational outcomes, interpersonal relationships, and physical and mental health and well‐being. There is an association between major depressive disorder and suicidal ideation, suicide attempts, and suicide. Antidepressant medication is used in moderate to severe depression; there is now a range of newer generations of these medications. 
Objectives
To investigate, via network meta‐analysis (NMA), the comparative effectiveness and safety of different newer generation antidepressants in children and adolescents with a diagnosed major depressive disorder (MDD) in terms of depression, functioning, suicide‐related outcomes and other adverse outcomes. The impact of age, treatment duration, baseline severity, and pharmaceutical industry funding was investigated on clinician‐rated depression (CDRS‐R) and suicide‐related outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Common Mental Disorders Specialised Register, the Cochrane Library (Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) and Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR)), together with Ovid Embase, MEDLINE and PsycINFO till March 2020. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials of six to 18 year olds of either sex and any ethnicity with clinically diagnosed major depressive disorder were included. Trials that compared the effectiveness of newer generation antidepressants with each other or with a placebo were included. Newer generation antidepressants included: selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors; selective norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs); norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors; norepinephrine dopamine reuptake inhibitors; norepinephrine dopamine disinhibitors (NDDIs); and tetracyclic antidepressants (TeCAs). 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently screened titles/abstracts and full texts, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. We analysed dichotomous data as Odds Ratios (ORs), and continuous data as Mean Difference (MD) for the following outcomes: depression symptom severity (clinician rated), response or remission of depression symptoms, depression symptom severity (self‐rated), functioning, suicide related outcomes and overall adverse outcomes. Random‐effects network meta‐analyses were conducted in a frequentist framework using multivariate meta‐analysis. Certainty of evidence was assessed using Confidence in Network Meta‐analysis (CINeMA). We used "informative statements" to standardise the interpretation and description of the results. 
Main results
Twenty‐six studies were included. There were no data for the two primary outcomes (depressive disorder established via clinical diagnostic interview and suicide), therefore, the results comprise only secondary outcomes. Most antidepressants may be associated with a "small and unimportant" reduction in depression symptoms on the CDRS‐R scale (range 17 to 113) compared with placebo (high certainty evidence: paroxetine: MD ‐1.43, 95% CI ‐3.90, 1.04; vilazodone: MD ‐0.84, 95% CI ‐3.03, 1.35; desvenlafaxine MD ‐0.07, 95% CI ‐3.51, 3.36; moderate certainty evidence: sertraline: MD ‐3.51, 95% CI ‐6.99, ‐0.04; fluoxetine: MD ‐2.84, 95% CI ‐4.12, ‐1.56; escitalopram: MD ‐2.62, 95% CI ‐5.29, 0.04; low certainty evidence: duloxetine: MD ‐2.70, 95% CI ‐5.03, ‐0.37; vortioxetine: MD 0.60, 95% CI ‐2.52, 3.72; very low certainty evidence for comparisons between other antidepressants and placebo). 
