Background
People with schizophrenia and severe mental illness may require considerable support from health care professionals, in most cases over a long period of time. Research on the effects of psychotherapy for schizophrenia has shown mixed results. Although pharmacological interventions remain the treatment of choice, the effects of treatments focusing on psychosocial factors affecting schizophrenia are important. 
Objectives
To review the effects of psychodynamic psychotherapy, psychoanalysis, or both, for people with schizophrenia or severe mental illness. 
Search methods
For the updated review, we searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (June 2008) which is based on regular searches of BIOSIS, CENTRAL, CINAHL, EMBASE, MEDLINE and PsycINFO. 
Selection criteria
We sought all randomised trials of individual psychodynamic psychotherapy or psychoanalysis for people with schizophrenia or severe mental illness. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data independently. For dichotomous data we calculated relative risks (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) on an intention‐to‐treat basis using a fixed‐effect model. We calculated numbers needed to treat/harm (NNT/NNH) where appropriate. For continuous data, we calculated mean differences (MD) and weighted mean differences (WMD) using a fixed‐effect model. 
Main results
We included four randomised trials (total 528 participants, 5 comparisons). All used a psychodynamic approach and reported limited data. 
For individual psychodynamic therapy versus medication alone we found significantly more participants in the therapy group were unable to be discharged (n=92, RR 8.35 CI 2.0 to 34.3, NNH 3 CI 2 to 6). We found no significant difference between groups in the number of participants who were re‐hospitalised (n=24, RR 0.63 CI 0.3 to 1.4) during long‐term analyses. At 12 months, fewer participants in the psychotherapy groups needed additional medications compared with those who did receive medication (n=74, RR 0.64 CI 0.5 to 0.8, NNT 3 CI 3 to 6), and also at three years follow up (n=87, RR 0.85 CI 0.8 to 1.0, NNT 7 CI 5 to 26). 
