Background
Epidemiological evidence has suggested a link between beta2‐agonists and increases in asthma mortality. There has been much debate about possible causal links for this association, and whether regular (daily) long‐acting beta2‐agonists are safe. 
Objectives
The aim of this review is to assess the risk of fatal and non‐fatal serious adverse events in trials that randomised patients with chronic asthma to regular salmeterol versus placebo or regular short‐acting beta2‐agonists. 
Search methods
We identified trials using the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials. We checked websites of clinical trial registers for unpublished trial data and FDA submissions in relation to salmeterol. The date of the most recent search was August 2011. 
Selection criteria
We included controlled parallel design clinical trials on patients of any age and severity of asthma if they randomised patients to treatment with regular salmeterol and were of at least 12 weeks' duration. Concomitant use of inhaled corticosteroids was allowed, as long as this was not part of the randomised treatment regimen. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected trials for inclusion in the review. One author extracted outcome data and the second checked them. We sought unpublished data on mortality and serious adverse events. 
Main results
The review includes 26 trials comparing salmeterol to placebo and eight trials comparing with salbutamol. These included 62,815 participants with asthma (including 2,599 children). In six trials (2,766 patients), no serious adverse event data could be obtained. 
All‐cause mortality was higher with regular salmeterol than placebo but the increase was not significant (Peto odds ratio (OR) 1.33 (95% CI 0.85 to 2.08)). Non‐fatal serious adverse events were significantly increased when regular salmeterol was compared with placebo (OR 1.15 95% CI 1.02 to 1.29). One extra serious adverse event occurred over 28 weeks for every 188 people treated with regular salmeterol (95% CI 95 to 2606). There is insufficient evidence to assess whether the risk in children is higher or lower than in adults. We found no significant increase in fatal or non‐fatal serious adverse events when regular salmeterol was compared with regular salbutamol. 
We combined individual patient data from the two largest studies (SNS: n=25,180 and SMART: n=26,355), as all the asthma‐related deaths in adults occurred in these studies. In patients who were not taking inhaled corticosteroids, compared to regular salbutamol or placebo, there was a significant increase in risk of asthma‐related death with regular salmeterol (Peto OR 6.15 95% CI 1.73 to 21.84). The confidence interval for patients who were taking inhaled corticosteroids is wide and cannot rule in or out an increase in asthma mortality in the presence of an inhaled corticosteroid (Peto OR 2.03 95% CI 0.82 to 5.00). 
