Background
Each year, in high‐income countries alone, approximately 100 million people develop scars. Excessive scarring can cause pruritus, pain, contractures, and cosmetic disfigurement, and can dramatically affect people's quality of life, both physically and psychologically. Hypertrophic scars are visible and elevated scars that do not spread into surrounding tissues and that often regress spontaneously. Silicone gel sheeting (SGS) is made from medical‐grade silicone reinforced with a silicone membrane backing and is one of the most commonly used treatments for hypertrophic scars. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of silicone gel sheeting for the treatment of hypertrophic scars in any care setting. 
Search methods
In April 2021 we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned reference lists of relevant included studies as well as reviews, meta‐analyses and health technology reports to identify additional studies. There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that enrolled people with any hypertrophic scars and assessed the use of SGS. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, 'Risk of bias' assessment, data extraction and GRADE assessment of the certainty of evidence. We resolved initial disagreements by discussion, or by consulting a third review author when necessary. 
Main results
Thirteen studies met the inclusion criteria. Study sample sizes ranged from 10 to 60 participants. The trials were clinically heterogeneous with differences in duration of follow‐up, and scar site. We report 10 comparisons, SGS compared with no SGS treatment and SGS compared with the following treatments: pressure garments; silicone gel; topical onion extract; polyurethane; propylene glycol and hydroxyethyl cellulose sheeting; Kenalog injection; flashlamp‐pumped pulsed‐dye laser; intense pulsed light  and Gecko Nanoplast (a silicone gel bandage). Six trials had a split‐site design and three trials had an unclear design (resulting in a mix of paired and clustered data). 
