Background
Granulosa cell tumour is a rare gynaecological tumour of the ovary with recurrences many years after initial diagnosis and treatment. Evidence‐based management of granulosa cell tumour of the ovary is limited, and treatment has not been standardised. Surgery, including fertility‐sparing procedures for young women, has traditionally been the standard treatment. Adjuvant treatments following surgery have been based on non‐randomised trials. A combination of bleomycin, etoposide and cisplatin (BEP) has traditionally been used for treatment of advanced and/or recurrent disease that cannot be optimally managed surgically. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of different treatment modalities offered in current practice for the management of primary, residual and recurrent adult‐onset granulosa cell tumours (GCTs) of the ovary. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Gynaecological Cancer Group Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE and EMBASE up to December 2013. We also searched registers of clinical trials, abstracts of scientific meetings and reference lists of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs and observational studies that examined women with adult‐onset granulosa cell tumours of the ovary (primary and recurrent). For non‐randomised studies, we included studies that used multivariate analysis to adjust for baseline characteristics. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently abstracted data and assessed risk of bias. Studies were heterogeneous with respect to treatment comparisons, so data were not synthesised in meta‐analyses, and methods for assessing heterogeneity were not needed. Risk of bias in included studies was assessed by using the six core items used to assess RCTs and by evaluating four additional criteria specifically addressing risk of bias in non‐randomised studies. 
Main results
Five retrospective cohort studies (535 women with a diagnosis of GCT) that used appropriate statistical methods for adjustment were included in the review. 
Two studies, which carried out multivariate analyses that attempted to identify factors associated with better outcomes (in terms of overall survival), reported no apparent evidence of a difference in overall survival between surgical approaches, whether a participant underwent lymphadenectomy or received adjuvant chemotherapy or radiotherapy. Only percentage of survival for all participants combined was reported in two trials and was not reported at all in one study. 
One study showed that women who received postoperative radiotherapy had lower risk of disease recurrence compared with those who underwent surgery alone (adjusted hazard ratio (HR) 0.3, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.1 to 0.6, P value 0.04). Three studies reportedthat there was no evidence of differences in disease recurrence based on execution and type of adjuvant chemotherapy or on type of surgery or surgical approach, other than that surgical staging may be important. One study described no apparent evidence of a difference in disease recurrence between fertility‐sparing surgery and conventional surgery. Recurrence‐free survival was not reported in one study. 
