Background
Intracranial atherosclerotic stenosis (ICAS) is an arterial narrowing in the brain that can cause stroke. Endovascular therapy and medical management may be used to prevent recurrent ischaemic stroke caused by ICAS. However, there is no consensus on the best treatment for people with ICAS. 
Objectives
To compare the safety and efficacy of endovascular therapy (ET) plus conventional medical treatment (CMT) with CMT alone for the management of symptomatic ICAS. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (30 August 2019), Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL: to 30 August 2019), MEDLINE Ovid (1946 to 30 August 2019), Embase Ovid (1974 to 30 August 2019), Scopus (1960 to 30 August 2019), Science Citation Index Web of Science (1900 to 30 July 2019), Academic Source Complete EBSCO (ASC: 1982 to 30 July 2019), and China Biological Medicine Database (CBM: 1978 to 30 July 2019). We also searched the following trial registers: ClinicalTrials.gov, WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, and Stroke Trials Registry. We also contacted trialists and researchers where additional information was required. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ET plus CMT with CMT alone for the treatment of symptomatic ICAS. ET modalities included angioplasty alone, balloon‐mounted stent, and angioplasty followed by placement of a self‐expanding stent. CMT included antiplatelet therapy in addition to control of risk factors such as hypertension, hyperlipidaemia, and diabetes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened trials to select potentially eligible RCTs and extracted data. Any disagreements were resolved by discussing and reaching consensus decisions with the full team. We assessed risk of bias and applied the GRADE approach to assess the quality of the evidence. The primary outcome was death of any cause or non‐fatal stroke of any type within three months of randomisation. Secondary outcomes included any‐cause death or non‐fatal stroke of any type more than three months of randomisation, ipsilateral stroke, type of recurrent event, death, restenosis, dependency, and health‐related quality of life. 
