Background
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited recessive disorder of chloride transport that is characterised by recurrent and persistent pulmonary infections from resistant organisms that result in lung function deterioration and early mortality in sufferers. 
Meticillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) has emerged as, not only an important infection in people who are hospitalised, but also as a potentially harmful pathogen in cystic fibrosis. Chronic pulmonary infection with MRSA is thought to confer people with cystic fibrosis with a worse clinical outcome and result in an increased rate of lung function decline. Clear guidance for MRSA eradication in cystic fibrosis, supported by robust evidence, is urgently needed. This is an update of a previous review. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of treatment regimens designed to eradicate MRSA and to determine whether the eradication of MRSA confers better clinical and microbiological outcomes for people with cystic fibrosis. To ascertain whether attempts at eradicating MRSA can lead to increased acquisition of other resistant organisms (including P aeruginosa) or increased adverse effects from drugs, or both. 
Search methods
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials were identified by searching the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register, PubMed, MEDLINE, clinical trial registries (Clinicaltrials.gov, WHO ICTRP, ISRCTN Registry), handsearching article reference lists and through contact with experts in the field. 
Date of the last search of the Group's Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register: 27 July 2017.
Ongoing trials registries were last searched: 07 August 2017.
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials comparing any combinations of topical, inhaled, oral or intravenous antimicrobials with the primary aim of eradicating MRSA compared with placebo, standard treatment or no treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
The authors independently assessed all search results for eligibility. They used the GRADE methodology to assess the quality of the evidence. 
