Background
Multi‐vessel coronary disease in people with ST elevation myocardial infarction (STEMI) is common and is associated with worse prognosis after STEMI. Based on limited evidence, international guidelines recommend intervention on only the culprit vessel during STEMI. This, in turn, leaves other significantly stenosed coronary arteries for medical therapy or revascularisation based on inducible ischaemia on provocative testing. Newer data suggest that intervention on both the culprit and non‐culprit stenotic coronary arteries (complete intervention) may yield better results compared with culprit‐only intervention. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of early complete revascularisation compared with culprit vessel only intervention strategy in people with STEMI and multi‐vessel coronary disease. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform Search Portal, and ClinicalTrials.gov. The date of the last search was 4 January 2017. We applied no language restrictions. We handsearched conference proceedings to December 2016, and contacted authors and companies related to the field. 
Selection criteria
We included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs), wherein complete revascularisation strategy was compared with a culprit‐only percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for the treatment of people with STEMI and multi‐vessel coronary disease. 
Data collection and analysis
We assessed the methodological quality of each trial using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. We resolved the disagreements by discussion among review authors. We followed standard methodological approaches recommended by Cochrane. The primary outcomes were long‐term (one year or greater after the index intervention) all‐cause mortality, long‐term cardiovascular mortality, long‐term non‐fatal myocardial infarction, and adverse events. The secondary outcomes were short‐term (within the first 30 days after the index intervention) all‐cause mortality, short‐term cardiovascular mortality, short‐term non‐fatal myocardial infarction, revascularisation, health‐related quality of life, and cost. We analysed data using fixed‐effect models, and expressed results as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We used GRADE criteria to assess the quality of evidence and we conducted Trial Sequential Analysis (TSA) to control risks of random errors. 
