Background
Postural drainage is used primarily in infants with cystic fibrosis from diagnosis up to the moment when they are mature enough to actively participate in self‐administered treatments. However, there is a risk of gastroesophageal reflux associated with this technique. 
This is an update of a review published in 2015.
Objectives
To compare the effects of standard postural drainage (15º to 45º head‐down tilt) with modified postural drainage (15º to 30º head‐up tilt) with regard to gastroesophageal reflux in infants and young children up to six years old with cystic fibrosis in terms of safety and efficacy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register. We also searched the reference lists of relevant articles and reviews. Additional searches were conducted on ClinicalTrials.gov and on the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for any planned, ongoing and unpublished studies. 
The date of the most recent literature searches: 19 June 2017.
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled studies that compared two postural drainage regimens (standard and modified postural drainage) with regard to gastroesophageal reflux in infants and young children (up to and including six years old) with cystic fibrosis. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently identified studies for inclusion, extracted outcome data and assessed risk of bias. We resolved disagreements by consensus or by involving a third review author. We contacted study authors to obtain missing or additional information. The quality of the evidence was assessed using GRADE. 
Main results
Two studies, involving a total of 40 participants, were eligible for inclusion in the review. We included no new studies in the 2018 update. The included studies were different in terms of the age of participants, the angle of tilt, the reported outcomes, the number of sessions and the study duration. The following outcomes were measured: appearance or exacerbation of gastroesophageal reflux episodes; percentage of peripheral oxygen saturation; number of exacerbations of upper respiratory tract symptoms; number of days on antibiotics for acute exacerbations; chest X‐ray scores; and pulmonary function tests. One study reported that postural drainage with a 20° head‐down position did not appear to exacerbate gastroesophageal reflux. However, the majority of the reflux episodes in this study reached the upper oesophagus (moderate‐quality evidence). The second included study reported that modified postural drainage (30° head‐up tilt) was associated with fewer number of gastroesophageal reflux episodes and fewer respiratory complications than standard postural drainage (30° head‐down tilt) (moderate‐quality evidence). The included studies had an overall low risk of bias. One included study was funded by the Sydney Children’s Hospital Foundation and the other by the Royal Children’s Hospital Research Foundation and Physiotherapy Research Foundation of Australia. Data were not able to be pooled by meta‐analysis due to differences in the statistical presentation of the data. 
