Background
Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) occurs in 4% to 7% of all women of reproductive age and 50% of women presenting with subfertility. Subfertility affects 15% to 20% of couples trying to conceive. A significant proportion of these women ultimately need assisted reproductive technology (ART). In vitro fertilisation (IVF) is one of the assisted reproduction techniques employed to raise the chances of achieving a pregnancy. For the standard IVF technique, stimulating follicle development and growth before oocyte retrieval is essential, for which a large number of different methods combining gonadotrophins with a gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist or antagonist are used. In women with PCOS, the supra‐physiological doses of gonadotrophins used for controlled ovarian hyperstimulation (COH) often result in an exaggerated ovarian response, characterised by the development of a large cohort of follicles of uneven quality, retrieval of immature oocytes, and increased risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). A potentially effective intervention for women with PCOS‐related subfertility involves earlier retrieval of immature oocytes at the germinal‐vesicle stage followed by in vitro maturation (IVM). So far, the only data available have derived from observational studies and non‐randomised clinical trials. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of IVM followed by IVF or ICSI versus conventional IVF or ICSI among women with PCOS undergoing assisted reproduction. 
Search methods
This is the second update of this review. We performed the search on 17 April 2018.
The search was designed with the help of the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Information Specialist, for all published and unpublished randomised controlled trials (RCTs). 
We searched the the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Specialised Register of controlled trials, CENTRAL via the Cochrane Central Register of Studies Online, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and the trial registers for ongoing and registered trials and the Open Grey database for grey literature from Europe. We made further searches in the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) fertility assessment and treatment guidelines. We handsearched reference lists of relevant systematic reviews and RCTs, together with PubMed and Google for any recent trials that have not yet been indexed in the major databases. 
Selection criteria
All RCTs on the intention to perform IVM before IVF or ICSI compared with conventional IVF or ICSI for subfertile women with PCOS, irrespective of language and country of origin. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies, assessed risk of bias, extracted data from studies, and attempted to contact the authors of studies for which data were missing. Our primary outcomes were live birth per woman randomised and miscarriage. We performed statistical analysis using Review Manager 5. We assessed evidence quality using GRADE methods. 
Main results
We found two RCTs suitable for inclusion in the review and six ongoing trials that have not yet reported results. Both included studies were published as abstracts in international conferences. 
Both studies were at unclear or high risk of bias for most of the seven domains assessed. Common problems were unclear reporting of study methods and lack of blinding. The main limitations in the overall quality of the evidence were high risk of bias and serious imprecision. 
