Background
Antipsychotic drugs are the core treatment for schizophrenia. Treatment guidelines state that there is no difference in efficacy between the various first‐generation antipsychotics, however, low‐potency first‐generation antipsychotic drugs are sometimes perceived as less efficacious than high‐potency first‐generation compounds by clinicians, and they also seem to differ in their side effects. 
Objectives
To review the effects of high‐potency, first‐generation perphenazine compared with low‐potency, first‐generation antipsychotic drugs for people with schizophrenia. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (October 2010).
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing perphenazine with first‐generation, low‐potency antipsychotic drugs for people with schizophrenia or schizophrenia‐like psychoses. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data independently. For dichotomous data we calculated risk ratios (RR) and their 95% confidence intervals (CI) on an intention‐to‐treat basis and using a random‐effects model. 
Main results
The review currently includes four relevant randomised trials with 365 participants. The size of the included studies was between 42 and 158 participants with a study length between one and four months. Overall, the methods of sequence generation and allocation concealment were poorly reported. Most studies were rated as low risk of bias in terms of blinding. Overall, attrition bias in the studies was high. 
The effects of perphenazine and low‐potency antipsychotic drugs seemed to be similar in terms of the primary outcome – response to treatment (perphenazine 58%, low‐potency antipsychotics 59%, 2 RCTs, n = 138, RR 0.97 CI 0.74 to 1.26 – moderate quality of evidence). There was also no clear evidence of a difference in acceptability of treatment with the number of participants leaving the studies early due to any reason, however results were imprecise (perphenazine 30%, low‐potency antipsychotics 28%, 3 RCTs, n = 323, RR 0.78 CI 0.35 to 1.76, very low quality of evidence). 
