Background
Scabies is an intensely itchy parasitic infection of the skin. It occurs worldwide, but is particularly problematic in areas of poor sanitation, overcrowding, and social disruption. In recent years, permethrin and ivermectin have become the most relevant treatment options for scabies. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of topical permethrin and topical or systemic ivermectin for scabies in people of all ages. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to 25 April 2017: the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, and IndMED. We searched the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, the ISRCTN registry, CenterWatch Clinical Trials Listing, ClinicalTrials.gov, TrialsCentral, and the UK Department of Health National Research Register for ongoing trials. We also searched multiple sources for grey literature and checked reference lists of included studies for additional trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials that compared permethrin or ivermectin against each other for people with scabies of all ages and either sex. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened the identified records, extracted data, and assessed the risk of bias for the included trials. 
The primary outcome was complete clearance of scabies. Secondary outcomes were number of participants re‐treated, number of participants with at least one adverse event, and number of participants withdrawn from study due to an adverse event. 
We summarized dichotomous outcomes using risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). If it was not possible to calculate the point estimate, we described the data qualitatively. Where appropriate, we calculated combined effect estimates using a random‐effects model and assessed heterogeneity. We calculated numbers needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome when we found a difference. 
We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. We used the control rate average to provide illustrative clearance rates in the comparison groups. 
Main results
Fifteen studies (1896 participants) comparing topical permethrin, systemic ivermectin, or topical ivermectin met the inclusion criteria. Overall, the risk of bias in the included trials was moderate: reporting in many studies was poor. Nearly all studies were conducted in South Asia or North Africa, where the disease is more common, and is associated with poverty. 
