Background
Psoriasis is a chronic skin disease that affects approximately two per cent of the general population. Plaque psoriasis is the most common form: it usually appears as raised, red patches of inflamed skin, covered with silvery white scales. The patches often occur in a symmetrical pattern. Guttate psoriasis is a particular form of psoriasis with widespread, small erythematosquamous lesions. Streptococcal infection is suspected to be a triggering factor for the onset of guttate psoriasis, and flare‐up of chronic plaque psoriasis. The previous Cochrane Review on this topic was published in 2000; it required an update because antistreptococcal treatment continues to be used to treat psoriasis, especially for the acute form of guttate psoriasis. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of antistreptococcal interventions for guttate and chronic plaque psoriasis. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Skin Specialised Register, Cochrane Register of Studies Online, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, and five trials registers (January 2019). We checked the reference lists of included and excluded studies and searched conference proceedings from the American Academy of Dermatology, Society for Investigative Dermatology, and European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing antistreptococcal interventions (tonsillectomy or systemic antibiotic treatment) in people with clinically diagnosed acute guttate and chronic plaque psoriasis compared with placebo, no intervention, or each other. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Primary outcome measures were: 1) time‐to‐resolution; achieving clear or almost clear skin (Physician Global Assessment (PGA) 0 or 1 or Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 90 or 100); 2) proportion of participants with adverse effects and severe adverse effects. Secondary outcomes were: 1) proportion of participants achieving clear or almost clear skin; 2) proportion of participants achieving PASI 75 or PGA 1 to 2; 3) risk of having at least one relapse at long‐term follow‐up. Short‐term assessment was defined as within eight weeks of the start of treatment; long‐term was at least one year after the start of treatment. 
