Background
Aspirin is used with the aim of optimising the chance of live birth in women undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART), despite inconsistent evidence of its efficacy and safety (in terms of intraoperative bleeding during oocyte retrieval and risk of miscarriage). The most appropriate time to commence aspirin therapy and the length of treatment required are also still to be determined. This is the second update of the review first published in 2007. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of aspirin in women undergoing ART.
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 4) in the Cochrane Library (searched 9 May 2016); the databases MEDLINE (1946 to 9 May 2016) and Embase (1974 to 9 May 2016); and trial registers (ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform search portal). We also examined the reference lists of all known primary studies and review articles, citation lists of relevant publications and abstracts of major scientific meetings, combined with the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group's search strategy. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials on aspirin for women undergoing ART.
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial eligibility and risk of bias and extracted the data. The primary review outcome was live birth. Secondary outcomes included clinical pregnancy, ongoing pregnancy, multiple pregnancy, miscarriage, and other complications associated with IVF/ICSI or with pregnancy and birth. We combined data to calculate risk ratios (RRs) (for dichotomous data) and mean differences (MDs) (for continuous data) and 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I² statistic. We assessed the overall quality of the evidence for the main comparisons using GRADE methods. 
Main results
The search identified 13 trials as eligible for inclusion in the review, including a total of 2653 participants with a mean age of 35 years. Ten studies used a dose of 100 mg and three used 80 mg of aspirin per day. In most of them, aspirin was commenced immediately at the start of down‐regulation, while the duration of treatment varied widely. Eight studies provided a placebo for the control group. 
