Background
Pharmacological therapy for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is aimed at relieving symptoms, improving quality of life and preventing or treating exacerbations. 
Treatment tends to begin with one inhaler, and additional therapies are introduced as necessary. For persistent or worsening symptoms, long‐acting inhaled therapies taken once or twice daily are preferred over short‐acting inhalers. Several Cochrane reviews have looked at the risks and benefits of specific long‐acting inhaled therapies compared with placebo or other treatments. However for patients and clinicians, it is important to understand the merits of these treatments relative to each other, and whether a particular class of inhaled therapies is more beneficial than the others. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of treatment options for patients whose chronic obstructive pulmonary disease cannot be controlled by short‐acting therapies alone. The review will not look at combination therapies usually considered later in the course of the disease. 
As part of this network meta‐analysis, we will address the following issues.
1. How does long‐term efficacy compare between different pharmacological treatments for COPD? 2. Are there limitations in the current evidence base that may compromise the conclusions drawn by this network meta‐analysis? If so, what are the implications for future research? 
Search methods
We identified randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in existing Cochrane reviews by searching the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR). In addition, we ran a comprehensive citation search on the Cochrane Airways Group Register of trials (CAGR) and checked manufacturer websites and reference lists of other reviews. The most recent searches were conducted in September 2013. 
Selection criteria
We included parallel‐group RCTs of at least 6 months' duration recruiting people with COPD. Studies were included if they compared any of the following treatments versus any other: long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABAs; formoterol, indacaterol, salmeterol); long‐acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs; aclidinium, glycopyrronium, tiotropium); inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs; budesonide, fluticasone, mometasone); combination long‐acting beta2‐agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (LABA/ICS) (formoterol/budesonide, formoterol/mometasone, salmeterol/fluticasone); and placebo. 
