Background
Primary angle closure glaucoma (PACG) accounts for 50% of glaucoma blindness worldwide. More than three‐quarters of individuals with PACG reside in Asia. In these populations, PACG often develops insidiously leading to chronically raised intraocular pressure and optic nerve damage, which is often asymptomatic. Non‐contact tests to identify people at risk of angle closure are relatively quick and can be carried out by appropriately trained healthcare professionals or technicians as a triage test. If the test is positive, the person will be referred for further specialist assessment. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of non‐contact tests (limbal anterior chamber depth (LACD) (van Herick test); oblique flashlight test; scanning peripheral anterior chamber depth analyser (SPAC), Scheimpflug photography; anterior segment optical coherence tomography (AS‐OCT), for identifying people with an occludable angle. 
Search methods
We searched the following bibliographic databases 3 October 2019: CENTRAL; MEDLINE; Embase; BIOSIS; OpenGrey; ARIF and clinical trials registries. The searches were limited to remove case reports. There were no date or language restrictions in the searches. 
Selection criteria
We included prospective and retrospective cross‐sectional, cohort and case‐control studies conducted in any setting that evaluated the accuracy of one or more index tests for identifying people with an occludable angle compared to a gonioscopic reference standard. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed data extraction and quality assessment using QUADAS2 for each study. For each test, 2 x 2 tables were constructed and sensitivity and specificity were calculated. When four or more studies provided data at fixed thresholds for each test, we fitted a bivariate model using the METANDI function in STATA to calculate pooled point estimates for sensitivity and specificity. For comparisons between index tests and subgroups, we performed a likelihood ratio test comparing the model with and without the covariate. 
Main results
We included 47 studies involving 26,151 participants and analysing data from 23,440. Most studies were conducted in Asia (36, 76.6%). Twenty‐seven studies assessed AS‐OCT (analysing 15,580 participants), 17 studies LACD (7385 participants), nine studies Scheimpflug photography (1616 participants), six studies SPAC (5239 participants) and five studies evaluated the oblique flashlight test (998 participants). Regarding study quality, 36 of the included studies (76.6%) were judged to have a high risk of bias in at least one domain.The use of a case‐control design (13 studies) or inappropriate exclusions (6 studies) raised patient selection concerns in 40.4% of studies and concerns in the index test domain in 59.6% of studies were due to lack of masking or post‐hoc determination of optimal thresholds. Among studies that did not use a case‐control design, 16 studies (20,599 participants) were conducted in a primary care/community setting and 18 studies (2590 participants) in secondary care settings, of which 15 investigated LACD. 
