Background
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is characterised by airflow obstruction due to an abnormal inflammatory response of the lungs to noxious particles or gases, for example, cigarette smoke. The pattern of care for people with moderate to very severe COPD often involves regular lengthy hospital admissions, which result in high healthcare costs and an undesirable effect on quality of life. Research over the past decade has focused on innovative methods for developing enabling and assistive technologies that facilitate patient self‐management. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions delivered by computer and by mobile technology versus face‐to‐face or hard copy/digital documentary‐delivered interventions, or both, in facilitating, supporting, and sustaining self‐management among people with COPD. 
Search methods
In November 2016, we searched the Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register (CAGR), which contains trial reports identified through systematic searches of bibliographic databases including the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, AMED, and PsycINFO, and we handsearched respiratory journals and meeting abstracts. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials that measured effects of remote and Web 2.0‐based interventions defined as technologies including personal computers (PCs) and applications (apps) for mobile technology, such as iPad, Android tablets, smart phones, and Skype, on behavioural change towards self‐management of COPD. Comparator interventions included face‐to‐face and/or hard copy/digital documentary educational/self‐management support. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (CMcC and MMcC) independently screened titles, abstracts, and full‐text study reports for inclusion. Two review authors (CMcC and AMB) independently assessed study quality and extracted data. We expressed continuous data as mean differences (MDs) and standardised mean differences (SMDs) for studies using different outcome measurement scales. 
Main results
We included in our review three studies (Moy 2015; Tabak 2013; Voncken‐Brewster 2015) with a total of 1580 randomised participants. From Voncken‐Brewster 2015, we included the subgroup of individuals with a diagnosis of COPD (284 participants) and excluded those at risk of COPD who had not received a diagnosis (1023 participants). As a result, the total population available for analysis included 557 participants; 319 received smart technology to support self‐management and 238 received face‐to‐face verbal/written or digital information and education about self‐management. The average age of participants was 64 years. We included more men than women because the sample from one of the studies consisted of war veterans, most of whom were men. These studies measured five of our nine defined outcomes. None of these studies included outcomes such as self‐efficacy, cost‐effectiveness, functional capacity, lung function, or anxiety and depression. 
