Background
Pubic or perineal shaving is a procedure performed before birth in order to lessen the risk of infection if there is a spontaneous perineal tear or if an episiotomy is performed. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of routine perineal shaving before birth on maternal and neonatal outcomes, according to the best available evidence. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (12 June 2014). 
Selection criteria
All controlled trials (including quasi‐randomised) that compare perineal shaving versus no perineal shaving. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed all potential studies for inclusion, assessed risk of bias and extracted the data using a predesigned form. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
Three randomised controlled trials (1039 women) published between 1922 and 2005 fulfilled the prespecified criteria. In the earliest trial, 389 women were alternately allocated to receive either skin preparation and perineal shaving or clipping of vulval hair only. In the second trial, which included 150 participants, perineal shaving was compared with the cutting of long hairs for procedures only. In the third and most recent trial, 500 women were randomly allocated to shaving of perineal area or cutting of perineal hair. The primary outcome for all three trials was maternal febrile morbidity; no differences were found (risk ratio (RR) 1.14, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.73 to 1.76). No differences were found in terms of perineal wound infection (RR 1.47, 95% CI 0.80 to 2.70) and perineal wound dehiscence (RR 0.33, 95% CI 0.01 to 8.00) in the most recent trial involving 500 women, which was the only trial to assess these outcomes. In the smallest trial, fewer women who had not been shaved had Gram‐negative bacterial colonisation compared with women who had been shaved (RR 0.83, 95% CI 0.70 to 0.98). There were no instances of neonatal infection in either group in the one trial that reported this outcome. There were no differences in maternal satisfaction between groups in the larger trial reporting this outcome (mean difference (MD) 0.00, 95% CI ‐0.13 to 0.13). No trial reported on perineal trauma. One trial reported on side‐effects and these included irritation, redness, burning and itching. 
The overall quality of evidence ranged from very low (for the outcomes postpartum maternal febrile morbidity and neonatal infection) to low (for the outcome maternal satisfaction and wound infection). 
