Background
Injuries to the recurrent inferior laryngeal nerve (RILN) remain one of the major post‐operative complications after thyroid and parathyroid surgery. Damage to this nerve can result in a temporary or permanent palsy, which is associated with vocal cord paresis or paralysis. Visual identification of the RILN is a common procedure to prevent nerve injury during thyroid and parathyroid surgery. Recently, intraoperative neuromonitoring (IONM) has been introduced in order to facilitate the localisation of the nerves and to prevent their injury during surgery. IONM permits nerve identification using an electrode, where, in order to measure the nerve response, the electric field is converted to an acoustic signal. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of IONM versus visual nerve identification for the prevention of RILN injury in adults undergoing thyroid surgery. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, ICTRP Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. The date of the last search of all databases was 21 August 2018. We did not apply any language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing IONM nerve identification plus visual nerve identification versus visual nerve identification alone for prevention of RILN injury in adults undergoing thyroid surgery 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts for relevance. One review author carried out screening for inclusion, data extraction and 'Risk of bias' assessment and a second review author checked them. For dichotomous outcomes, we calculated risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For continuous outcomes, we calculated mean differences (MDs) with 95% CIs. We assessed trials for certainty of the evidence using the GRADE instrument. 
Main results
Five RCTs with 1558 participants (781 participants were randomly assigned to IONM and 777 to visual nerve identification only) met the inclusion criteria; two trials were performed in Poland and one trial each was performed in China, Korea and Turkey. Inclusion and exclusion criteria differed among trials: previous thyroid or parathyroid surgery was an exclusion criterion in three trials. In contrast, this was a specific inclusion criterion in another trial. Three trials had central neck compartment dissection or lateral neck dissection and Graves’ disease as exclusion criteria. The mean duration of follow‐up ranged from 6 to 12 months. The mean age of participants ranged between 41.7 years and 51.9 years. 
