Background
Omega‐3 polyunsaturated fatty acids (omega‐3 PUFAs) from fish and plant sources are commonly considered as a promising non‐medical alternative to improve brain functions and slow down the progression of dementia. This assumption is mostly based on findings of preclinical studies and epidemiological research. Resulting explanatory models aim at the role omega‐3 PUFAs play in the development and integrity of the brain's neurons, their protective antioxidative effect on cell membranes and potential neurochemical mechanisms directly related to Alzheimer‐specific pathology. Epidemiological research also found evidence of malnutrition in people with dementia. Considering this and the fact that omega‐3 PUFA cannot be synthesised by humans, omega‐3 PUFAs might be a promising treatment option for dementia. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of omega‐3 polyunsaturated fatty acid (PUFA) supplementation for the treatment of people with dementia. 
Search methods
We searched the Specialized Register of the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group (ALOIS), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization (WHO) portal/ICTRP on 10 December 2015. We contacted manufacturers of omega‐3 supplements and scanned reference lists of landmark papers and included articles. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in which omega‐3 PUFA in the form of supplements or enriched diets were administered to people with Alzheimer's disease (AD), vascular dementia (VaD), dementia with Lewy bodies (DLB), Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD) or frontotemporal dementia (FTD). 
Data collection and analysis
The primary outcome measures of interest were changes in global and specific cognitive functions, functional performance, dementia severity and adverse effects. Two review authors independently selected studies, extracted data and assessed the quality of trials according to the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions. We rated the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. We received unpublished data from the trial authors and collected adverse effects information from the published articles. We conducted meta‐analyses for available outcome measures at six months. 
Main results
We included three comparable randomised, placebo‐controlled trials investigating omega‐3 PUFA supplements in 632 participants with mild to moderate AD over six, 12 and 18 months. We found no studies investigating other types of dementia. All trials were of high methodological quality. The overall quality of evidence for most of the outcomes was high. 
