Background
People with pes cavus frequently suffer foot pain, which can lead to significant disability. Despite anecdotal reports, rigorous scientific investigation of this condition and how best to manage it is lacking. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of interventions for the prevention and treatment of pes cavus.
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register (17 August 2010), MEDLINE (January 1966 to August 2010), EMBASE (January 1980 to August 2010), CINAHL (January 1982 to August 2010), AMED (January 1985 to August 2010) and reference lists of articles. We contacted experts in the field to identify additional published or unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized and quasi‐randomised controlled trials of interventions for the treatment of pes cavus. We included trials aimed at preventing or correcting the pes cavus deformity. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently selected papers, assessed trial quality and extracted data.
Main results
Four trials were included in the review. One new trial of botulinum toxin was identified in the updated search. Only one trial of custom‐made foot orthoses fully met the inclusion criteria. Three additional studies (botulinum toxin, footwear and off‐the‐shelf foot orthoses), all assessing secondary outcomes were included. We could not pool data used in the four studies due to heterogeneity of diagnostic groups and outcome measures. The one trial that fully met the inclusion criteria investigated the treatment of pes cavus pain in 154 adults over three months. The trial showed a significant reduction in the level of foot pain with custom‐made foot orthoses versus sham orthoses (WMD 10.90; 95% CI 3.21 to 18.59). Furthermore, a significant improvement in self‐reported foot function and physical functioning was reported with custom‐made foot orthoses. There was no difference in reported adverse events following the allocation of custom‐made or sham orthoses. Secondary biomechanical outcomes improved with the use of custom‐made foot orthoses and footwear (pedobarography), but not with intramuscular injections of botulinum toxin (radiographic) or off‐the‐shelf foot orthoses (electromyography). 
Authors' conclusions
This updated review shows that custom‐made foot orthoses are significantly more beneficial than sham orthoses for treating foot pain associated with pes cavus in a variety of clinical populations. We also show that some secondary biomechanical outcomes improve with custom‐made foot orthoses and footwear, but not with botulinum toxin or off‐the‐shelf foot orthoses. There is an absence of evidence for any other type of intervention for the treatment or prevention of pes cavus. 
