Background
Work‐related upper limb and neck musculoskeletal disorders (MSDs) are one of the most common occupational disorders worldwide. Studies have shown that the percentage of office workers that suffer from MSDs ranges from 20 to 60 per cent. The direct and indirect costs of work‐related upper limb MSDs have been reported to be high in Europe, Australia, and the United States. Although ergonomic interventions are likely to reduce the risk of office workers developing work‐related upper limb and neck MSDs, the evidence is unclear. This is an update of a Cochrane Review which was last published in 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of physical, cognitive and organisational ergonomic interventions, or combinations of those interventions for the prevention of work‐related upper limb and neck MSDs among office workers. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, CINAHL, Web of Science (Science Citation Index), SPORTDiscus, Embase, the US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the National Institute for Occupational Safety and Health database, and the World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, to 10 October 2018. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of ergonomic interventions for preventing work‐related upper limb or neck MSDs (or both) among office workers. We only included studies where the baseline prevalence of MSDs of the upper limb or neck, or both, was less than 25%. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed risk of bias. We included studies with relevant data that we judged to be sufficiently homogeneous regarding the interventions and outcomes in the meta‐analysis. We assessed the overall quality of the evidence for each comparison using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 15 RCTs (2165 workers). We judged one study to have a low risk of bias and the remaining 14 studies to have a high risk of bias due to small numbers of participants and the potential for selection bias. 
