Background
Childbirth is a complex life event that can be associated with both positive and negative psychological responses. When giving birth is experienced as particularly traumatic this can have a negative impact on a woman’s postnatal emotional well‐being. There has been an increasing focus on women's psychological trauma symptoms following childbirth, including the relatively rare phenomenon of post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), and the benefit of debriefing interventions to prevent this. In this review we examined the evidence for debriefing as a preventative intervention for psychological trauma following childbirth. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of debriefing interventions compared with standard postnatal care for the prevention of psychological trauma in women following childbirth. 
Search methods
The trials registers of the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Group (CCDANCTR‐References and CCDANCTR‐Studies) and the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group were searched up to 4 March 2015. These registers include relevant randomised controlled trials from the following bibliographic databases: the Cochrane Library (all years to date), MEDLINE (1950 to date), EMBASE (1974 to date), and PsycINFO (1967 to date). Additional searches were conducted in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, and Maternity and Infant Care. The reference lists of all included studies were checked for additional published reports and citations of unpublished research. Experts in the field were contacted. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised trials comparing postnatal debriefing interventions with standard postnatal care for the prevention of psychological trauma of women following childbirth. The intervention consisted of at least one debriefing intervention session, which had the purpose of allowing women to describe their experience and to normalise their emotional reaction to that experience. 
Data collection and analysis
Three authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Meta‐analysis was conducted where there were more than two trials examining the same outcomes. 
