Background
Postoperative administration of non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) reduces patient opioid requirements and, in turn, reduces the incidence and severity of opioid‐induced adverse events (AEs). 
Objectives
To assess the analgesic efficacy and adverse effects of single‐dose intravenous diclofenac, compared with placebo or an active comparator, for moderate to severe postoperative pain in adults. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases without language restrictions: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Cochrane Register of Studies Online), MEDLINE, and Embase on 22 May 2018. We checked clinical trials registers and reference lists of retrieved articles for additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized trials that compared a single postoperative dose of intravenous diclofenac with placebo or another active treatment, for treating acute postoperative pain in adults following any surgery. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently considered trials for review inclusion, assessed risk of bias, and extracted data. 
Our primary outcome was the number of participants in each arm achieving at least 50% pain relief over a four‐ and six‐hour period. 
Our secondary outcomes were time to, and number of participants using rescue medication; withdrawals due to lack of efficacy, AEs, and for any cause; and number of participants experiencing any AE, serious AEs (SAEs), and NSAID‐related AEs. We performed a post hoc analysis of opioid‐related AEs, to enable indirect comparisons with other analyses of postoperative analgesics. 
For subgroup analysis, we planned to analyze different doses and formulations of parenteral diclofenac separately. 
We assessed the overall quality of the evidence for each outcome using GRADE and created two 'Summary of findings' tables. 
Main results
We included eight studies, involving 1756 participants undergoing various surgeries (dental, mixed minor, abdominal, and orthopedic), with 20 to 175 participants receiving intravenous diclofenac in each study. Mean study population ages ranged from 24.5 years to 54.5 years. Intravenous diclofenac doses varied among and within studies, ranging from 3.75 mg to 75 mg. Five studies assessed newer formulations of parenteral diclofenac that could be administered as an undiluted intravenous bolus. Most studies had an unclear risk of bias for several domains and a high risk of bias due to small sample size. The overall quality of evidence for each outcome was generally low for reasons including unclear risk of bias in studies, imprecision, and low event numbers. 
Primary outcome 
Three studies (277 participants) produced a number needed to treat for an additional beneficial outcome (NNTB) for at least 50% of maximum pain relief versus placebo of 2.4 (95% confidence interval (CI) 1.9 to 3.1) over four hours (low‐quality evidence). Four studies (436 participants) produced an NNTB of 3.8 versus placebo (95% CI 2.9 to 5.9) over six hours (low‐quality evidence). No studies provided data for the comparison of intravenous diclofenac with another NSAID over four hours. At six hours there was no difference between intravenous diclofenac and another NSAID (low‐quality evidence). 
Secondary outcomes 
For secondary efficacy outcomes, intravenous diclofenac was generally superior to placebo and similar to other NSAIDs. 
For time to rescue medication, comparison of intravenous diclofenac versus placebo demonstrated a median of 226 minutes for diclofenac versus 80 minutes for placebo (5 studies, 542 participants, low‐quality evidence). There were insufficient data for pooled analysis for comparisons of diclofenac with another NSAID (very low‐quality evidence). 
For the number of participants using rescue medication, two studies (235 participants) compared diclofenac with placebo. The number needed to treat to prevent one additional harmful event (NNTp) (here, the need for rescue medication) compared with placebo was 3.0 (2.2 to 4.5, low‐quality evidence). The comparison of diclofenac with another NSAID included only one study (98 participants). The NNTp was 4.5 (2.5 to 33) for ketorolac versus diclofenac (very low‐quality evidence). 
