Background
Non‐invasive respiratory support is increasingly used for the management of respiratory dysfunction in preterm infants. This approach runs the risk of under‐treating those with respiratory distress syndrome (RDS), for whom surfactant administration is of paramount importance. Several techniques of minimally invasive surfactant therapy have been described. This review focuses on surfactant administration to spontaneously breathing infants via a thin catheter briefly inserted into the trachea. 
Objectives
Primary objectives  
In non‐intubated preterm infants with established RDS or at risk of developing RDS to compare surfactant administration via thin catheter with: 
1. intubation and surfactant administration through an endotracheal tube (ETT); or
2. continuation of non‐invasive respiratory support without surfactant administration or intubation. 
Secondary objective  
1. To compare different methods of surfactant administration via thin catheter
Planned subgroup analyses included gestational age, timing of intervention, and use of sedating pre‐medication during the intervention. 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), in the Cochrane Library; Ovid MEDLINE(R) and Epub Ahead of Print, In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Daily and Versions(R); and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), on 30 September 2020. We also searched clinical trials databases and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised trials comparing surfactant administration via thin catheter (S‐TC) with (1) surfactant administration through an ETT (S‐ETT), or (2) continuation of non‐invasive respiratory support without surfactant administration or intubation. We also included trials comparing different methods/strategies of surfactant administration via thin catheter. We included preterm infants (at < 37 weeks' gestation) with or at risk of RDS. 
Data collection and analysis
Review authors independently assessed study quality and risk of bias and extracted data. Authors of all studies were contacted regarding study design and/or missing or unpublished data. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
