Background
Hepatitis C virus (HCV)‐associated mixed cryoglobulinaemia is the manifestation of an inflammation of small and medium‐sized vessels produced by a pathogenic IgM with rheumatoid factor activity generated by an expansion of B‐cells. The immune complexes formed precipitate mainly in the skin, joints, kidneys or peripheral nerve fibres. Current therapeutic approaches are aimed at elimination of HCV infection, removal of cryoglobulins and also of the B‐cell clonal expansions. The optimal treatment for it has not been established. 
Objectives
This review aims to look at the benefits and harms of the currently available treatment options to treat the HCV‐associated mixed cryoglobulinaemia with active manifestations of vasculitis (cutaneous or glomerulonephritis). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Specialised Register to 30 November 2017 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs looking at interventions directed at treatment of HCV‐associated cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis (immunosuppressive medications and plasma exchange therapy) have been included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the retrieved titles and abstracts. Authors of included studies were contacted to obtain missing information. Statistical analyses were performed using random effects models and results expressed as risk ratio (RR) or mean difference (MD) with 95% confidence interval (CI). The planned primary outcomes were kidney disease, skin vasculitis, musculoskeletal symptoms, peripheral joint arthralgia, peripheral neuropathies, liver involvement, interstitial lung involvement, widespread vasculitis and death. Other planned outcomes were: therapy duration, laboratory findings, adverse effects, antiviral therapy failure, B‐cell lymphoma, endocrine disorders and costs of treatment. 
Main results
Ten studies were included in the review (394 participants). None of them evaluated direct‐acting antivirals. Seven studies were single‐centre studies and three were multicentre. The duration of the studies varied from six to 36 months. The risk of bias was generally unclear or low. Three different interventions were examined: use of rituximab (3 studies, 118 participants); interferon (IFN) (IFN compared to other strategies (5 studies, 223 participants); six IFN months versus one year (1 study, 36 participants), and immunoadsorption apheresis versus only immunosuppressive therapy (1 study, 17 participants). 
The use of rituximab may slightly improve skin vasculitis (2 studies, 78 participants: RR 0.57, 95% CI 0.28 to 1.16; moderate certainty evidence) and made little of no difference to kidney disease (moderate certainty evidence). In terms of laboratory data, the effect of rituximab was uncertain for cryocrit (MD ‐2.01%, 95% CI ‐10.29% to 6.27%, low certainty evidence) and HCV replication. Rituximab may slightly increase infusion reactions compared to immunosuppressive medication (3 studies, 118 participants: RR 4.33, 95%CI 0.76 to 24.75, moderate certainty evidence) however discontinuations of the treatment due to adverse reactions were similar (3 studies, 118 participants: RR 0.97, 95% CI 0.22 to 4.36, moderate certainty evidence). 
