Background
Excessive alcohol use contributes significantly to physical and psychological illness, injury and death, and a wide array of social harm in all age groups. A proven strategy for reducing excessive alcohol consumption levels is to offer a brief conversation‐based intervention in primary care settings, but more recent technological innovations have enabled people to interact directly via computer, mobile device or smartphone with digital interventions designed to address problem alcohol consumption. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and cost‐effectiveness of digital interventions for reducing hazardous and harmful alcohol consumption, alcohol‐related problems, or both, in people living in the community, specifically: (i) Are digital interventions more effective and cost‐effective than no intervention (or minimal input) controls? (ii) Are digital interventions at least equally effective as face‐to‐face brief alcohol interventions? (iii) What are the effective component behaviour change techniques (BCTs) of such interventions and their mechanisms of action? (iv) What theories or models have been used in the development and/or evaluation of the intervention? Secondary objectives were (i) to assess whether outcomes differ between trials where the digital intervention targets participants attending health, social care, education or other community‐based settings and those where it is offered remotely via the internet or mobile phone platforms; (ii) to specify interventions according to their mode of delivery (e.g. functionality features) and assess the impact of mode of delivery on outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, ERIC, HTA and Web of Knowledge databases; ClinicalTrials.com and WHO ICTRP trials registers and relevant websites to April 2017. We also checked the reference lists of included trials and relevant systematic reviews. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated the effectiveness of digital interventions compared with no intervention or with face‐to‐face interventions for reducing hazardous or harmful alcohol consumption in people living in the community and reported a measure of alcohol consumption. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration.
Main results
We included 57 studies which randomised a total of 34,390 participants. The main sources of bias were from attrition and participant blinding (36% and 21% of studies respectively, high risk of bias). Forty one studies (42 comparisons, 19,241 participants) provided data for the primary meta‐analysis, which demonstrated that participants using a digital intervention drank approximately 23 g alcohol weekly (95% CI 15 to 30) (about 3 UK units) less than participants who received no or minimal interventions at end of follow up (moderate‐quality evidence). 
Fifteen studies (16 comparisons, 10,862 participants) demonstrated that participants who engaged with digital interventions had less than one drinking day per month fewer than no intervention controls (moderate‐quality evidence), 15 studies (3587 participants) showed about one binge drinking session less per month in the intervention group compared to no intervention controls (moderate‐quality evidence), and in 15 studies (9791 participants) intervention participants drank one unit per occasion less than no intervention control participants (moderate‐quality evidence). 
Only five small studies (390 participants) compared digital and face‐to‐face interventions. There was no difference in alcohol consumption at end of follow up (MD 0.52 g/week, 95% CI ‐24.59 to 25.63; low‐quality evidence). Thus, digital alcohol interventions produced broadly similar outcomes in these studies. No studies reported whether any adverse effects resulted from the interventions. 
