Background
Psoriasis is an inflammatory skin disease that presents with itching, red, scaling plaques; its worsening has been associated with obesity, drinking, smoking, lack of sleep, and a sedentary lifestyle. Lifestyle changes may improve psoriasis. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of lifestyle changes for psoriasis, including weight reduction, alcohol abstinence, smoking cessation, dietary modification, exercise, and other lifestyle change interventions. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to July 2018: the Cochrane Skin Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and LILACS. We also searched the China National Knowledge Infrastructure, the Airiti Library, and five trials registers up to July 2018. We checked the references of included trials for further relevant trials, and we asked the authors of the included trials if they were aware of any relevant unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of lifestyle changes (either alone or in combination) for treating psoriasis in people diagnosed by a healthcare professional. Treatment had to be given for at least 12 weeks. Eligible comparisons were no lifestyle changes or another active intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. The primary outcome measures were 'Severity of psoriasis' and 'Adherence to the intervention'. Secondary outcomes were 'Quality of life', 'Time to relapse', and 'Reduction in comorbidities'. We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
We included 10 RCTs with 1163 participants (mean age: 43 to 61 years; 656 men and 478 women were reported). Six trials examined the effects of dietary intervention (low‐calorie diet) in 499 obese participants (mean age: 44.3 to 61 years; where reported, 395 had moderate‐to‐severe psoriasis). One trial assessed a combined dietary intervention and exercise programme in 303 obese participants with moderate‐to‐severe psoriasis who had started a systemic therapy for psoriasis and had not achieved clearance after four weeks of continuous treatment (median age: 53 years). Another trial assessed a walking exercise and continuous health education in 200 participants (mean age: 43.1 years, severity not reported). Finally, two trials included education programmes promoting a healthy lifestyle in 161 participants (aged 18 to 78 years), with one trial on mild psoriasis and the other trial not reporting severity. 
Comparisons included information only; no intervention; medical therapy alone; and usual care (such as continuing healthy eating). 
All trials were conducted in hospitals and treated participants for between 12 weeks and three years. One trial did not report the treatment period. Seven trials measured the outcomes at the end of treatment and there was no additional follow‐up. In two trials, there was follow‐up after the treatment ended. Five trials had a high risk of performance bias, and four trials had a high risk of attrition bias. 
We found no trials assessing interventions for alcohol abstinence or smoking cessation. No trials assessed time to relapse. Only two trials assessed adverse events; in one trial these were caused by the add‐on therapy ciclosporin (given in both groups). The trial comparing two dietary interventions to a no‐treatment group observed no adverse events. 
The results presented in this abstract are based on trials of obese participants.
Outcomes for dietary interventions versus usual care were measured 24 weeks to six months from baseline. Compared to usual care, dietary intervention (strict caloric restriction) may lead to 75% or greater improvement from baseline in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75) (risk ratio (RR) 1.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.07 to 2.58; 2 trials, 323 participants; low‐quality evidence). Adherence to the intervention may be greater with the dietary intervention than usual care, but the 95% CI indicates that the dietary intervention might also make little or no difference (RR 1.26, 95% CI 0.76 to 2.09; 2 trials, 105 participants; low‐quality evidence). Dietary intervention probably achieves a greater improvement in dermatology quality‐of‐life index (DLQI) score compared to usual care (MD −12.20, 95% CI −13.92 to −10.48; 1 trial, 36 participants; moderate‐quality evidence), and probably reduces the BMI compared to usual care (MD −4.65, 95% CI −5.93 to −3.36; 2 trials, 78 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). 
Outcomes for dietary interventions plus exercise programme were measured 16 weeks from baseline and are based on one trial (303 participants). Compared to information only (on reducing weight to improve psoriasis), combined dietary intervention and exercise programme (dietetic plan and physical activities) probably improves psoriasis severity, but the 95% CI indicates that the intervention might make little or no difference (PASI 75: RR 1.28, 95% CI 0.83 to 1.98). This combined intervention probably results in a greater reduction in BMI (median change −1.10 kg/m², P = 0.002), but there is probably no difference in adherence (RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.01; 137/151 and 145/152 participants adhered in the treatment and control group, respectively). There were no data on quality of life. These outcomes are based on moderate‐quality evidence. 
Authors' conclusions
Dietary intervention may reduce the severity of psoriasis (low‐quality evidence) and probably improves quality of life and reduces BMI (moderate‐quality evidence) in obese people when compared with usual care, while combined dietary intervention and exercise programme probably improves psoriasis severity and BMI when compared with information only (moderate‐quality evidence). None of the trials measured quality of life. 
We did not detect a clear difference in treatment adherence between those in the combined dietary intervention and exercise programme group and those given information only (moderate‐quality evidence). Adherence may be improved through dietary intervention compared with usual care (low‐quality evidence). Participants generally adhered well to the lifestyle interventions assessed in the review. 
