Background
Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and cervical adenitis (PFAPA) syndrome is a rare clinical syndrome of unknown cause usually identified in children. Tonsillectomy is considered a potential treatment option for this syndrome. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2010 and previously updated in 2014. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) compared with non‐surgical treatment in the management of children with PFAPA. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trials Register; Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2019, Issue 4); PubMed; Ovid Embase; CINAHL; Web of Science; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 15 October 2019. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) with non‐surgical treatment in children with PFAPA. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. The primary outcomes were the proportion of children whose symptoms have completely resolved and complications of surgery (haemorrhage and number of days of postoperative pain). Secondary outcomes were: number of episodes of fever and the associated symptoms; severity of episodes; use of corticosteroids; absence or time off school; quality of life. We used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
Two trials were included with a total of 67 children randomised (65 analysed); we judged both to be at low risk of bias. 
One trial of 39 participants recruited children with PFAPA syndrome diagnosed according to rigid, standard criteria. The trial compared adenotonsillectomy to watchful waiting and followed up patients for 18 months. A smaller trial of 28 children applied less stringent criteria for diagnosing PFAPA and probably also included participants with alternative types of recurrent pharyngitis. This trial compared tonsillectomy alone to no treatment and followed up patients for six months. 
