Background
The use of supplemental oxygen in the care of extremely preterm infants has been common practice since the 1940s. Despite this, there is little agreement regarding which oxygen saturation (SpO₂) ranges to target to maximise short‐ or long‐term growth and development, while minimising harms. There are two opposing concerns. Lower oxygen levels (targeting SpO₂ at 90% or less) may impair neurodevelopment or result in death. Higher oxygen levels (targeting SpO₂ greater than 90%) may increase severe retinopathy of prematurity or chronic lung disease. 
The use of pulse oximetry to non‐invasively assess neonatal SpO₂ levels has been widespread since the 1990s. Until recently there were no randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that had assessed whether it is better to target higher or lower oxygen saturation levels in extremely preterm infants, from birth or soon thereafter. As a result, there is significant international practice variation and uncertainty remains as to the most appropriate range to target oxygen saturation levels in preterm and low birth weight infants. 
Objectives
1. What are the effects of targeting lower versus higher oxygen saturation ranges on death or major neonatal and infant morbidities, or both, in extremely preterm infants? 
2. Do these effects differ in different types of infants, including those born at a very early gestational age, or in those who are outborn, without antenatal corticosteroid coverage, of male sex, small for gestational age or of multiple birth, or by mode of delivery? 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2016, Issue 4), MEDLINE via PubMed (1966 to 11 April 2016), Embase (1980 to 11 April 2016) and CINAHL (1982 to 11 April 2016). We also searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials that enrolled babies born at less than 28 weeks' gestation, at birth or soon thereafter, and targeted SpO₂ ranges of either 90% or below or above 90% via pulse oximetry, with the intention of maintaining such targets for at least the first two weeks of life. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methods of Cochrane Neonatal to extract data from the published reports of the included studies. We sought some additional aggregate data from the original investigators in order to align the definitions of two key outcomes. We conducted the meta‐analyses with Review Manager 5 software, using the Mantel‐Haenszel method for estimates of typical risk ratio (RR) and risk difference (RD) and a fixed‐effect model. We assessed the included studies using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' and GRADE criteria in order to establish the quality of the evidence. We investigated heterogeneity of effects via pre‐specified subgroup and sensitivity analyses. 
