Background
Chronic antipsychotic drug treatment may cause tardive dyskinesia (TD), a long‐term movement disorder. Gamma‐aminobutyric acid (GABA) agonist drugs, which have intense sedative properties and may exacerbate psychotic symptoms, have been used to treat TD. 
Objectives
1. Primary objective
The primary objective was to determine whether using non‐benzodiazepine GABA agonist drugs for at least six weeks was clinically effective for the treatment of antipsychotic‐induced TD in people with schizophrenia, schizoaffective disorder or other chronic mental illnesses. 
2. Secondary objectives
The secondary objectives were as follows.
To examine whether any improvement occurred with short periods of intervention (less than six weeks) and, if this did occur, whether this effect was maintained at longer periods of follow‐up. 
To examine whether there was a differential effect between the various compounds.
To test the hypothesis that GABA agonist drugs are most effective for a younger age group (less than 40 years old). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (last searched April 2017), inspected references of all identified studies for further trials, and, when necessary, contacted authors of trials for additional information. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials of non‐benzodiazepine GABA agonist drugs in people with antipsychotic‐induced TD and schizophrenia or other chronic mental illness. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected and critically appraised studies, extracted and analysed data on an intention‐to‐treat basis. Where possible and appropriate we calculated risk ratios (RRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For continuous data we calculated mean differences (MD). We assumed that people who left early had no improvement. We contacted investigators to obtain missing information. We assessed risk of bias for included studies and created a 'Summary of findings' table using GRADE. 
