Background
Retinitis pigmentosa (RP) comprises a group of hereditary eye diseases characterized by progressive degeneration of retinal photoreceptors. It results in severe visual loss that may lead to blindness. Symptoms may become manifest during childhood or adulthood which include poor night vision (nyctalopia) and constriction of peripheral vision (visual field loss). Visual field loss is progressive and affects central vision later in the disease course. The worldwide prevalence of RP is approximately 1 in 4000, with 100,000 individuals affected in the USA. At this time, there is no proven therapy for RP. 
Objectives
The objective of this review was to synthesize the best available evidence regarding the effectiveness and safety of vitamin A and fish oils (docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)) in preventing the progression of RP. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register (2020, Issue 2); Ovid MEDLINE; Embase.com; PubMed; Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS); ClinicalTrials.gov; the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP); and OpenGrey. We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. We last searched the electronic databases on 7 February 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials that enrolled participants of any age diagnosed with any degree of severity or type of RP, and evaluated the effectiveness of vitamin A, fish oils (DHA), or both compared to placebo, vitamins (other than vitamin A), or no therapy, as a treatment for RP. We excluded cluster‐randomized trials and cross‐over trials. 
Data collection and analysis
We prespecified the following outcomes: mean change from baseline visual field, mean change from baseline electroretinogram (ERG) amplitudes, and anatomic changes as measured by optical coherence tomography (OCT), at one‐year follow‐up, and mean change in visual acuity, at five‐year follow‐up. Two review authors independently extracted data and evaluated risk of bias for all included trials. We also contacted study investigators for further information when necessary. 
Main results
In addition to three trials from the previous version of this review, we included a total of four trials with 944 participants aged 4 to 55 years. Two trials included only participants with X‐linked RP and the other two included participants with RP of all forms of genetic predisposition. Two trials evaluated the effect of DHA alone; one trial evaluated vitamin A alone; and one trial evaluated DHA and vitamin A versus vitamin A alone. Two trials recruited participants from the USA, and the other two recruited from the USA and Canada. All trials were at low risk of bias for most domains. We did not perform meta‐analysis due to clinical heterogeneity. 
