Background
Hot flushes and night sweats are common symptoms experienced by menopausal women. Hormone therapy (HT), containing oestrogens alone or oestrogens together with progestogens in a cyclic or continuous regimen, is often recommended for their alleviation. 
Objectives
To examine the effect of oral HT compared to placebo on these vasomotor symptoms and the risk of early onset side‐effects. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders Group and Subfertility Group trials register (searched May 2002). This register is based on regular searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), PsycINFO, the handsearching of 20 relevant journals and conference proceedings, and searches of several key grey literature sources. We also contacted all relevant pharmaceutical companies, The Journal of the International Menopause Society and Climacteric. 
Selection criteria
Double‐blind, randomised, placebo‐controlled trials of oral HT for at least three months duration. 
Data collection and analysis
Study quality and outcome data were assessed independently. Random effects models were considered appropriate due to the variety of trial methodologies. The meta‐analyses were explored for sensitivity to trial quality and therapy duration. Symptom frequency and severity were assessed separately, together with withdrawals and side‐effects. Frequency data were analysed using the Weighted Mean Difference (WMD) between treatment and placebo outcomes. For severity data, odds ratios were estimated from the proportional odds model. From 115 references originally identified, 24 trials meeting the selection criteria were included in the review. Study participants totaled 3,329. Trial duration ranged from three months to three years. 
Main results
There was a significant reduction in the weekly hot flush frequency for HT compared to placebo (WMD ‐17.92, 95% CI ‐22.86 to ‐12.99). This was equivalent to a 75% reduction in frequency (95% CI 64.3 to 82.3) for HT relative to placebo. Symptom severity was also significantly reduced compared to placebo (OR 0.13, 95% CI 0.07 to 0.23). Withdrawal for lack of efficacy occurred significantly more often on placebo therapy (OR 10.51, 95% CI 5.00 to 22.09). Withdrawal for adverse events, commonly breast tenderness, oedema, joint pain and psychological symptoms, was not significantly increased (OR 1.25, 95% CI 0.83 to 1.90), although the occurrence of any adverse events was significantly increased for HT (OR 1.41, 95% CI 1.00 to 1.99). In women who were randomised to placebo treatment, a 57.7% (95% CI 45.1 to 67.7) reduction in hot flushes was observed between baseline and end of study. 
Authors' conclusions
Oral HT is highly effective in alleviating hot flushes and night sweats. Therapies purported to reduce such symptoms must be assessed in blinded trials against a placebo or a validated therapy because of the large placebo effect seen in well conducted randomised controlled trials, and also because during menopause symptoms may fluctuate and after menopause symptoms often decline. Withdrawals due to side‐effects were only marginally increased in the HT groups despite the inability to tailor HT in these fixed dose trials. Comparisons of hormonal doses, product types or regimens require analysis of trials with these specific "within study" comparisons. 
