Background
Studies have reported high tumour response rates for platinum‐containing regimens in the treatment of women with metastatic breast cancer. Most of these studies were conducted prior to the 'intrinsic subtype' era, and did not specifically focus on metastatic triple‐negative breast cancers (mTNBCs). 
Objectives
To identify and review the evidence from randomised trials comparing platinum‐containing chemotherapy regimens with regimens not containing platinum in the management of women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Search methods
For this review update, we searched the Cochrane Breast Cancer Group's Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, the World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov on 28 May 2015. We identified further potentially relevant studies from handsearching references of previous trials, systematic reviews, and meta‐analyses. Prior to this review update, the most recent search for studies was conducted in May 2003 for the original 2004 review. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing platinum‐containing chemotherapy regimens with regimens not containing platinum in women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two independent reviewers assessed studies for eligibility and quality, and extracted all relevant data from each study. Hazard ratios (HRs) were derived for time‐to‐event outcomes, where possible, and fixed‐effect models were used for meta‐analyses. Objective tumour response rates (OTRRs) and toxicities were analysed as binary (dichotomous) outcomes with risk ratios (RRs) used as measures of effects. Quality of life data were extracted where available. GRADE was used to rate the quality of evidence for survival and tumour response outcomes at the level of subgroups selected and unselected for mTNBC, and for toxicity outcomes based on combining data from selected and unselected populations. 
Main results
This update includes 15 new eligible treatment‐comparisons from 12 studies. In total, 28 treatment‐comparisons, involving 4418 women, from 24 studies are now included in one or more meta‐analyses. Of the 28 treatment‐comparisons, 19 and 16 had published or provided extractable time‐to‐event data on overall survival (OS) or progression‐free survival/time to progression (PFS/TTP), respectively. All 28 treatment‐comparisons provided OTRR data that could be included in meta‐analyses. Most women recruited to the studies were not selected on the basis of mTNBC status. 
In a subgroup of three treatment‐comparisons assessing women with mTNBC, platinum‐containing regimens may have provided a survival benefit (HR 0.75, 95% CI 0.57 to 1.00; low‐quality evidence). In women unselected for intrinsic subtypes such as mTNBC, there was little or no effect on survival (HR 1.01, 95% CI 0.92 to 1.12; high‐quality evidence). This effect was similar to the combined analysis of survival data for both populations (HR 0.98, 95% CI 0.89 to 1.07; I2 =39%, 1868 deaths, 2922 women; 19 trials). The difference in treatment effects between mTNBC women compared with unselected women was of borderline statistical significance (P = 0.05). 
