Background
Bisphosphonates form part of standard therapy for hypercalcemia and the prevention of skeletal events in some cancers. However, the role of bisphosphonates in pain relief for bony metastases remains uncertain. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of bisphosphonates for the relief of pain from bone metastases. 
Search methods
MEDLINE (1966 to 1999), EMBASE (1980 to 1999), CancerLit (1966 to 1999), T he Cochrane L ibrary (Issue 1, 2000) and the Oxford Pain Database were searched using the strategy devised by the Cochrane Pain, Palliative and Supportive Care Group with additional terms 'diphosphonate', 'bisphosphonate', 'multiple myeloma' and 'bone neoplasms'. (Last search: January 2000). 
Selection criteria
Randomized trials of bisphosphonates compared with open, blinded, or different doses/types of bisphosphonates in cancer patients were included where pain and/or analgesic consumption were outcome measures. Studies where pain was reported only by observers were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Article eligibility, quality assessment and data extraction were undertaken by both review authors. The proportions of patients with pain relief at 4, 8 and 12 weeks were assessed. The proportion of patients with analgesic reduction, the mean pain score, mean analgesic consumption, adverse drug reactions, and quality of life data were compared as secondary outcomes. 
Main results
Thirty randomized controlled studies (21 blinded, four open and five active control) with a total of 3682 subjects were included. For each outcome, there were few studies with available data. For the proportion of patients with pain relief (eight studies) pooled data showed benefits for the treatment group, with an NNT at 4 weeks of 11[95% CI 6‐36] and at 12 weeks of 7 [95% CI 5‐12]. In terms of adverse drug reactions, the NNH was 16 [95% CI 12‐27] for discontinuation of therapy. Nausea and vomiting were reported in 24 studies with a non‐significant trend for greater risk in the treatment group. One study showed a small improvement in quality of life for the treatment group at 4 weeks. The small number of studies in each subgroup with relevant data limited our ability to explore the most effective bisphosphonates and their relative effectiveness for different primary neoplasms. 
