Background
Thumb‐in‐palm deformity in patients with spastic cerebral palsy is a deformity that impairs the ability to use the thumb and thus severely limits hand function. From the variety of operative procedures that have been described, it may be clear that there is no consensus on the surgical treatment of thumb‐in‐palm deformity. 
Objectives
To review the efficacy of surgical interventions for the thumb‐in‐palm deformity in patients with spastic cerebral palsy; to review the selection criteria to surgically treat thumb‐in‐palm deformity in these patients; and to review the outcome assessment used in these studies. 
Search methods
We identified studies for inclusion from searches of several electronic databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (Issue 4, 2003), MEDLINE (1966 to December 2004), EMBASE (1980 to December 2004) and CINAHL (1982 to December 2004).  We also cross‐checked the reference lists of these studies to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We considered a trial eligible for inclusion when it met the following criteria. 1) It was described as a randomized clinical trial, clinical controlled trial or prospective study that compared pre‐operative‐ with post‐operative outcome assessment. 2) It concerned patients with thumb‐in‐palm deformity affected by spastic cerebral palsy. There was no restriction in age. 3) It compared or described any surgical intervention to the thumb. 4) It followed subjects for at least six months. 5) Outcomes described included one or more of the following items: rate of success; functional improvement; active and passive range of motion of the thumb; grasp and release; pinch grip; complications and side effects; and quality of life. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors assessed each study using a scoring system. Meta‐analysis was not possible because the selected studies were poorly designed, and the results were presented in an incompatible form. Therefore, we compiled a descriptive summary of the results of the individual studies. We did not attempt to acquire the raw data for re‐analysis. 
Main results
We identified 14 prospective studies that compared preoperative and postoperative outcomes as eligible for inclusion in this review. We found no randomized clinical trials or controlled clinical trials. The studies with the best available evidence were prospective studies that compared pre‐ with post‐operative assessment. After assessment, we ultimately included nine studies. 
Participants  In all the included studies the participants were more or less homogeneous regarding the most important prognostic indications. The nine included studies treated 234 patients. Age at operation ranged from 4‐48 years (Median approximately 11 years). 
