Background
This review is one of a series on drugs used to treat fibromyalgia. Fibromyalgia is a clinically well‐defined chronic condition of unknown aetiology characterised by chronic widespread pain that often co‐exists with sleep problems and fatigue. It affects approximately 2% of the general population. Up to 70% of patients with fibromyalgia meet the criteria for a depressive or anxiety disorder. People often report high disability levels and poor health‐related quality of life. Drug therapy focuses on reducing key symptoms and disability, and improving health‐related quality of life. Antipsychotics might reduce fibromyalgia and associated mental health symptoms. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy, tolerability and safety of antipsychotics in fibromyalgia in adults. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (2016, Issue 4), MEDLINE and EMBASE to 20 May 2016, together with reference lists of retrieved papers and reviews and two clinical trial registries. We also contacted trial authors. 
Selection criteria
We selected controlled trials of at least four weeks duration of any formulation of antipsychotics used for the treatment of fibromyalgia in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted the data from all included studies and two review authors independently assessed study risks of bias. We resolved discrepancies by discussion. We performed analysis using three tiers of evidence. We derived first tier evidence from data meeting current best standards and subject to minimal risk of bias (outcome equivalent to substantial pain intensity reduction, intention‐to‐treat analysis without imputation for drop‐outs, at least 200 participants in the comparison, eight to 12 weeks duration, parallel design), second tier evidence from data that failed to meet one or more of these criteria and that we considered at some risk of bias but with adequate numbers in the comparison, and third tier evidence from data involving small numbers of participants that we considered very likely to be biased or used outcomes of limited clinical utility, or both. We rated the quality of evidence using the Grading of Recommendations, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach. 
Main results
We included a total of four studies with 296 participants.
Three studies with 206 participants compared quetiapine, an atypical (second‐generation) antipsychotic, with placebo. One study used a cross‐over design and two studies a parallel‐group design. Study duration was eight or 12 weeks. Quetiapine was used in all studies with a bedtime dosage between 50 and 300 mg/day. All studies had one or more sources of potential major bias and we judged them to be at moderate risk of bias overall. The primary outcomes in this review were participant‐reported pain relief of 50% or greater, Patient Global Impression of Change (PGIC) much or very much improved, withdrawal due to adverse events (tolerability) and serious adverse events (safety). 
