Background
It is suggested that oestrogen may promote changes in cervical favourability with minimal effect on uterine activity and could be used to induce labour or prime the cervix. A variety of oestrogen preparations (infusions, gels, creams and tablets) and routes of administrations (oral, vaginal, extra‐amniotic) vaginal,extra‐amniotic) have been used in inpatient and outpatient settings. Oestrogen is rarely used in clinical practice. There are no commercially available preparations of oestrogen for induction and in most cases this is prepared specifically for the study. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of oestrogens alone, or with amniotomy, for third trimester cervical ripening and induction of labour in comparison with other methods of induction of labour. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group trials register (January 2008), the Cochrane Register of Controlled Trials (The Cochrane Library, Issue 4, 2007), and bibliographies of relevant papers. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing oestrogens for third trimester cervical ripening or labour induction with placebo/no treatment or other methods listed above it on a predefined list of labour induction methods. 
Data collection and analysis
Studies were assessed by at least two review authors.
Main results
Seven studies (465 women) were included. Only studies using oestrogens alone were identified; there were no trials of oestrogen with amniotomy. Three studies used intravaginal oestrogen, two used extra‐amniotic oestrogen, one used an intravenous preparation, and one used oral tablets. Three studies were inpatient studies, one was an outpatient intervention and three did not state whether the setting was inpatient or outpatient. None of the studies reported the primary outcomes of rates of vaginal delivery not achieved in 24 hours. There were insufficient data to make any meaningful conclusions when comparing oestrogen with vaginal prostaglandin (PGE2), oxytocin alone, or extra amniotic PGF2a, as to whether oestrogen is effective in inducing labour. 
There was no evidence of a difference between oestrogen and placebo in the rate of caesarean section, uterine hyperstimulation with or without fetal heart rate changes, or instrumental vaginal delivery. 
Authors' conclusions
There were insufficient data to quantify the safety and effectiveness of oestrogen as an induction agent; they should only be used as part of randomised control trials as there are alternative effective options for inducting labour. 
