Background
Colorectal cancer is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer worldwide. A diagnosis of colorectal cancer and subsequent treatment can adversely affect an individuals physical and mental health. Benefits of physical activity interventions in alleviating treatment side effects have been demonstrated in other cancer populations. Given that regular physical activity can decrease the risk of colorectal cancer, and cardiovascular fitness is a strong predictor of all‐cause and cancer mortality risk, physical activity interventions may have a role to play in the colorectal cancer control continuum. Evidence of the efficacy of physical activity interventions in this population remains unclear. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of physical activity interventions on the disease‐related physical and mental health of individuals diagnosed with non‐advanced colorectal cancer, staged as T1‐4 N0‐2 M0, treated surgically or with neoadjuvant or adjuvant therapy (i.e. chemotherapy, radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy), or both. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2019, Issue 6), along with OVID MEDLINE, six other databases and four trial registries with no language or date restrictions. We screened reference lists of relevant publications and handsearched meeting abstracts and conference proceedings of relevant organisations for additional relevant studies. All searches were completed between 6 June and 14 June 2019. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised control trials (RCTs) and cluster‐RCTs comparing physical activity interventions, to usual care or no physical activity intervention in adults with non‐advanced colorectal cancer. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected studies, performed the data extraction, assessed the risk of bias and rated the quality of the studies using GRADE criteria. We pooled data for meta‐analyses by length of follow‐up, reported as mean differences (MDs) or standardised mean differences (SMDs) using random‐effects wherever possible, or the fixed‐effect model, where appropriate. If a meta‐analysis was not possible, we synthesised studies narratively. 
