Background
In people with portal hypertension, gastric varices are less prevalent than oesophageal varices. The risk of bleeding from gastric varices seems to be lower than from oesophageal varices; however, when gastric varices bleed, it is often severe and associated with higher mortality. Endoscopic sclerotherapy of bleeding gastric varices with N‐butyl‐2‐cyanoacrylate glue (cyanoacrylate) is considered the best haemostasis with a lower risk of re‐bleeding compared with other endoscopic methods. However, there are some inconsistencies between trials regarding mortality, incidence of re‐bleeding, and adverse effects. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of sclerotherapy using cyanoacrylate compared with other endoscopic sclerotherapy procedures or with variceal band ligation for treating acute gastric variceal bleeding with or without vasoactive drugs in people with portal hypertension and to assess the best dosage of cyanoacrylate. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Controlled Trials Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and Science Citation Index Expanded from inception to September 2014 and reference lists of articles. We included trials irrespective of trial setting, language, publication status, or date of publication. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials comparing sclerotherapy using cyanoacrylate versus other endoscopic methods (sclerotherapy using alcohol‐based compounds or endoscopy band ligation) for acute gastric variceal bleeding in people with portal hypertension. 
Data collection and analysis
We performed the review following the recommendations of the Cochrane Handbook for Systematic Reviews of Interventions and the Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Module. 
We presented results as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI), with I2 statistic values as a measure of intertrial heterogeneity. We analysed data with both fixed‐effect and random‐effects models, and reported the results with random‐effects models. We performed subgroup, sensitivity, and trial sequential analyses to evaluate the robustness of the overall results, risk of bias, sources of intertrial heterogeneity, and risk of random errors. 
Main results
We included six randomised clinical trials with three different comparisons: one trial compared two different doses of cyanoacrylate in 91 adults, bleeding actively from all types of gastric varices; one trial compared cyanoacrylate versus alcohol‐based compounds in 37 adults with active or acute bleeding from isolated gastric varices only; and four trials compared cyanoacrylate versus endoscopic band ligation in 365 adults, with active or acute bleeding from all types of gastric varices. Main outcomes in the included trials were bleeding‐related mortality, failure of intervention, re‐bleeding, adverse events, and control of bleeding. Follow‐up varied from six to 26 months. The participants included in these trials had chronic liver disease of different severities, were predominantly men, and most were from Eastern countries. We judged all trials at high risk of bias. Application of quality criteria for all outcomes yielded very low quality grade of the evidence in the three analyses, except for the low quality evidence rated for the re‐bleeding outcome in the cyanoacrylate versus endoscopic band ligation comparison. 
