Background
The four approaches to hysterectomy for benign disease are abdominal hysterectomy (AH), vaginal hysterectomy (VH), laparoscopic hysterectomy (LH) and robotic‐assisted hysterectomy (RH). 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of different surgical approaches to hysterectomy for women with benign gynaecological conditions. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases (from inception to 14 August 2014) using the Ovid platform: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE; EMBASE; Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) and PsycINFO. We also searched relevant citation lists. We used both indexed and free‐text terms. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in which clinical outcomes were compared between one surgical approach to hysterectomy and another. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors independently selected trials, assessed risk of bias and performed data extraction. Our primary outcomes were return to normal activities, satisfaction, quality of life, intraoperative visceral injury and major long‐term complications (i.e. fistula, pelvi‐abdominal pain, urinary dysfunction, bowel dysfunction, pelvic floor condition and sexual dysfunction). 
Main results
We included 47 studies with 5102 women. The evidence for most comparisons was of low or moderate quality. The main limitations were poor reporting and imprecision. 
Vaginal hysterectomy (VH) versus abdominal hysterectomy (AH) (nine RCTs, 762 women) 
Return to normal activities was shorter in the VH group (mean difference (MD) ‐9.5 days, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐12.6 to ‐6.4, three RCTs, 176 women, I2 = 75%, moderate quality evidence). There was no evidence of a difference between the groups for the other primary outcomes. 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy (LH) versus AH (25 RCTs, 2983 women) 
Return to normal activities was shorter in the LH group (MD ‐13.6 days, 95% CI ‐15.4 to ‐11.8; six RCTs, 520 women, I2 = 71%, low quality evidence), but there were more urinary tract injuries in the LH group (odds ratio (OR) 2.4, 95% CI 1.2 to 4.8, 13 RCTs, 2140 women, I2 = 0%, low quality evidence). There was no evidence of a difference between the groups for the other primary outcomes. 
