Background
Cholangiocarcinoma (cancer in the bile duct) is an aggressive tumour for which surgical resection is a mainstay of treatment. Despite complete resection, recurrences of the cancer are common and lead to poor prognosis in patients. Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy given after surgical resection may reduce the risk of cancer recurrence by eradicating residual cancer and micrometastatic lesions. The benefits and harms of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy versus placebo, no intervention, or other adjuvant chemotherapies are unclear. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy versus placebo, no intervention, or other adjuvant chemotherapies for people with cholangiocarcinoma after curative‐intent resection. 
Search methods
We performed electronic searches in the Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE, Embase, LILACS, Science Citation Index Expanded, and Conference Proceedings Citation Index ‐ Science for trials that met the inclusion criteria up to 28 April 2021. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials irrespective of blinding, publication status, or language comparing postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy versus placebo, no intervention, or a different postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy regimen for participants with curative‐intent resection for cholangiocarcinoma. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methods to develop and conduct the review. We conducted meta‐analyses and presented results, where feasible, using a random‐effects model and risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). We assessed risk of bias according to predefined domains suggested by Cochrane. We rated the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach and presented outcome results in a summary of findings table. 
Main results
We included five published randomised clinical trials. The trials included 931 adults (18 to 83 years old) who underwent curative‐intent resection for cholangiocarcinoma. Four trials compared postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy (mitomycin‐C and 5‐fluorouracil (5‐FU); gemcitabine; gemcitabine plus oxaliplatin; or capecitabine) versus no postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy (surgery alone) in 867 participants with cholangiocarcinoma only. A fifth trial compared postoperative adjuvant S‐1 (a novel oral fluoropyrimidine derivative) chemotherapy versus gemcitabine in 70 participants with intrahepatic cholangiocarcinoma, perihilar cholangiocarcinoma (64 participants), and gallbladder carcinoma (6 participants). We assessed all of the included trials at overall high risk of bias. One trial was conducted in France, three in Japan, and one in the United Kingdom. We could not perform all planned comparison analyses due to lack of data. Three trials used intention‐to‐treat analyses. Another trial used per‐protocol analysis. In the remaining trial one participant in the intervention group and one in the control group were lost to follow‐up. However, the outcomes of these two participants were not described. 
