Background
Ménière's disease or syndrome is a chronic inner ear disorder that results in sporadic attacks of vertigo, sensorineural hearing loss, aural fullness and tinnitus. 
There is no definitive treatment for Ménière's disease and treatment options range from dietary modification through medication to surgery. 
Modification of diet, including restriction of salt, caffeine and alcohol intake, is a management option that is widely recommended to patients with Ménière's as a first‐line treatment. There has not previously been a systematic review of this intervention. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of dietary restriction of salt, caffeine and alcohol intake in patients with Ménière's disease or syndrome. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trials Register; Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); PubMed; Ovid Embase; CINAHL; Web of Science; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 28 March 2018. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of dietary modification, specifically salt, caffeine and alcohol restriction or substitution (or both), compared to no modification of these agents or a placebo intervention, in adult patients with Ménière's disease or syndrome. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Our primary outcomes were control of vertigo or decrease in vertigo attacks, and adverse effects. Secondary outcomes included hearing (change in hearing loss or its progression), tinnitus (severity), perception of aural fullness, well‐being and quality of life (overall changes), and other adverse effects. We planned to use GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
We did not identify any studies that met the inclusion criteria for the review.
Authors' conclusions
There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials to support or refute the restriction of salt, caffeine or alcohol intake in patients with Ménière's disease or syndrome. 
