Background
Community pharmacies are an easily accessible and cost‐effective platform for delivering health care worldwide, and the range of services provided has undergone rapid expansion in recent years. Thus, in addition to dispensing medication, pharmacy workers within community pharmacies now give advice on a range of health‐promoting behaviours that aim to improve health and to optimise the management of long‐term conditions. However, it remains uncertain whether these health‐promotion interventions can change the professional practice of pharmacy workers, improve health behaviours and outcomes for pharmacy users and have the potential to address health inequalities. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of health‐promotion interventions to change community pharmacy workers' professional practice and improve outcomes for users of community pharmacies. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, CENTRAL, six other databases and two trials registers to 6 February 2018. We also conducted reference checking, citation searches and contacted study authors to identify any additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised trials of health‐promotion interventions in community pharmacies targeted at, or delivered by, pharmacy workers that aimed to improve the health‐related behaviour of people attending the pharmacy compared to no treatment, or usual treatment received in the community pharmacy. We excluded interventions where there was no interaction between pharmacy workers and pharmacy users, and those that focused on medication use only. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard procedures recommended by Cochrane and the Effective Practice and Organisation of Care review group for both data collection and analysis. We compared intervention to no intervention or to usual treatment using standardised mean differences (SMD) and 95% confidence intervals (95% CI) (higher scores represent better outcomes for pharmacy user health‐related behaviour and quality of life, and lower scores represent better outcomes for clinical outcomes, costs and adverse events). Interpretation of effect sizes (SMD) was in line with Cochrane recommendations. 
Main results
We included 57 randomised trials with 16,220 participants, described in 83 reports. Forty‐nine studies were conducted in high‐income countries, and eight in middle‐income countries. We found no studies that had been conducted in low‐income countries. Most interventions were educational, or incorporated skills training. Interventions were directed at pharmacy workers (n = 8), pharmacy users (n = 13), or both (n = 36). The clinical areas most frequently studied were diabetes, hypertension, asthma, and modification of cardiovascular risk. Duration of follow‐up of interventions was often unclear. Only five studies gave details about the theoretical basis for the intervention, and studies did not provide sufficient data to comment on health inequalities. 
The most common sources of bias were lack of protection against contamination ‐ mainly in individually randomised studies ‐ and inadequate blinding of participants. The certainty of the evidence for all outcomes was moderate. We downgraded the certainty because of the heterogeneity across studies and evidence of potential publication bias. 
Professional practice outcomes 
We conducted a narrative analysis for pharmacy worker behaviour due to high heterogeneity in the results. Health‐promotion interventions probably improve pharmacy workers' behaviour (2944 participants; 9 studies; moderate‐certainty evidence) when compared to no intervention. These studies typically assessed behaviour using a simulated patient (mystery shopper) methodology. 
Pharmacy user outcomes 
Health‐promotion interventions probably lead to a slight improvement in health‐related behaviours of pharmacy users when compared to usual treatment (SMD 0.43, 95% CI 0.14 to 0.72; I2 = 89%; 10 trials; 2138 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). These interventions probably also lead to a slight improvement in intermediate clinical outcomes, such as levels of cholesterol or glycated haemoglobin, for pharmacy users (SMD ‐0.43, 95% CI ‐0.65 to ‐0.21; I2 = 90%; 20 trials; 3971 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
We identified no studies that evaluated the impact of health‐promotion interventions on event‐based clinical outcomes, such as stroke or myocardial infarction, or the psychological well‐being of pharmacy users. 
Health‐promotion interventions probably lead to a slight improvement in quality of life for pharmacy users (SMD 0.29, 95% CI 0.08 to 0.50; I2= 82%; 10 trials, 2687 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
Adverse events 
No studies reported adverse events for either pharmacy workers or pharmacy users.
Costs 
We found that health‐promotion interventions are likely to be cost‐effective, based on moderate‐certainty evidence from five of seven studies that reported an economic evaluation. 
