Background
Cervical cerclage is a surgical intervention involving placing a stitch around the uterine cervix. The suture material aims to prevent cervical shortening and opening, thereby reducing the risk of preterm birth. The effectiveness and safety of this procedure in multiple gestations remains controversial. 
Objectives
To assess whether the use of a cervical cerclage in multiple gestations, either at high risk of pregnancy loss based on just the multiple gestation (history‐indicated cerclage), the ultrasound findings of 'short cervix' (ultrasound‐indicated cerclage), or the physical exam changes in the cervix (physical exam‐indicated cerclage), improves obstetrical and perinatal outcomes. The primary outcomes assessed were perinatal deaths, serious neonatal morbidity, and perinatal deaths and serious neonatal morbidity. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (30 June 2014) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of cervical cerclage in multiple pregnancies. Quasi‐RCTs and RCTs using a cluster‐randomised design were eligible for inclusion (but none were identified). Studies using a cross‐over design and those presented only as abstracts were not eligible for inclusion. 
We included studies comparing cervical cerclage with no cervical cerclage in multiple pregnancies. 
Studies comparing cervical stitch versus any other preventative therapy (e.g. progesterone) in multiple pregnancies, and studies involving comparisons between different cerclage protocols (history‐indicated versus ultrasound‐indicated versus physical exam‐indicated cerclage) were also eligible for inclusion but none were identified. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias. Two review authors extracted data. Data were checked for accuracy. 
Main results
We included five trials, which in total randomised 1577 women, encompassing both singleton and multiple gestations. After excluding singletons, the final analysis included 128 women, of which 122 women had twin gestations, and six women had triplet gestations. Two trials (n = 73 women) assessed history‐indicated cerclage, while three trials (n = 55 women) assessed ultrasound‐indicated cerclage. The five trials were judged to be of average to above average quality, with three of the trials at unclear risk regarding selection and detection biases. 
Concerning the primary outcomes, when outcomes for cerclage were pooled together for all indications and compared with no cerclage, there was no statistically significant differences in perinatal deaths (19.2% versus 9.5%; risk ratio (RR) 1.74, 95% confidence intervals (CI) 0.92 to 3.28, five trials, n = 262), serious neonatal morbidity (15.8% versus 13.6%; average RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.13 to 7.10, three trials, n = 116), or composite perinatal death and neonatal morbidity (40.4% versus 20.3%; average RR 1.54, 95% CI 0.58 to 4.11, three trials, n = 116). 
