Background
Infants born preterm (before 37 weeks' gestation) are at risk of respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) and need for respiratory support due to lung immaturity. One course of prenatal corticosteroids, administered to women at risk of preterm birth, reduces the risk of respiratory morbidity and improves survival of their infants, but these benefits do not extend beyond seven days. Repeat doses of prenatal corticosteroids have been used for women at ongoing risk of preterm birth more than seven days after their first course of corticosteroids, with improvements in respiratory outcomes, but uncertainty remains about any long‐term benefits and harms. This is an update of a review last published in 2015. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety, using the best available evidence, of a repeat dose(s) of prenatal corticosteroids, given to women who remain at risk of preterm birth seven or more days after an initial course of prenatal corticosteroids with the primary aim of reducing fetal and neonatal mortality and morbidity. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials, including cluster‐randomised trials, of women who had already received one course of corticosteroids seven or more days previously and were still at risk of preterm birth, randomised to further dose(s) or no repeat doses, with or without placebo. Quasi‐randomised trials were excluded. Abstracts were accepted if they met specific criteria. All trials had to meet criteria for trustworthiness, including a search of the Retraction Watch database for retractions or expressions of concern about the trials or their publications. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth methods. Two review authors independently selected trials, extracted data, and assessed trial quality and scientific integrity. We chose primary outcomes based on clinical importance as measures of effectiveness and safety, including serious outcomes, for the women and their fetuses/infants, infants in early childhood (age two to less than five years), the infant in mid‐ to late childhood (age five to less than 18 years) and the infant as an adult. We assessed risk of bias at the outcome level using the RoB 2 tool and assessed certainty of evidence using GRADE. 
