Background
Urticaria is a common skin disease characterised by itching weals or hives, which can occur almost anywhere on the body. There are a number of different subtypes and a range of available treatment options. There is lack of agreement on the efficacy of H2‐receptor antagonists used in the treatment of urticaria. 
Objectives
To assess the safety and effectiveness of H2‐receptor antagonists in the treatment of urticaria. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to 7 October 2011: the Cochrane Skin Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL in The Cochrane Library (2011, Issue 4), MEDLINE (from 2005), EMBASE (from 2007), and LILACS (from 1982). We also searched online trials registries for ongoing trials. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of H2‐receptor antagonists in people with a clinical diagnosis of urticaria of any duration or of any subtype. Studies including H1‐antihistamines for chronic urticaria are the topic of a separate Cochrane review; thus, they were not included in this review. 
Data collection and analysis
Two reviewers independently assessed trial quality and extracted and analysed data.
Main results
Four studies of a relatively small size, involving 144 participants, were included in this review. A combination of ranitidine with diphenhydramine was more effective at improving the resolution of urticaria than diphenhydramine administered alone (risk ratio (RR) 1.59, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.07 to 2.36). Although there was a similar improvement in itching, weal size, and intensity, cimetidine provided no statistically significant greater overall improvement in symptoms of urticaria when compared to diphenhydramine. However, a combination of these medications was more effective than diphenhydramine alone (RR 2.02, 95% CI 1.03 to 3.94). Adverse events were reported with several of the interventions, i.e. ranitidine and diphenhydramine, causing drowsiness and sedation, but there was no significant difference in the level of sedation from baseline with either famotidine or diphenhydramine. 
