Background
Hysterosalpingography (HSG) is a method of testing for tubal patency. However, women struggle to tolerate the procedure, as it is associated with some discomfort. Various pharmacological strategies are available that may reduce pain during the procedure, though there is no consensus as to the best method. 
Objectives
To compare the effectiveness of different types of pharmacological interventions for pain relief in women undergoing HSG for investigation of subfertility. 
Search methods
This review has drawn on the search strategy developed for the Cochrane Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group (MDSG). We searched the following databases to 15 April 2015: MDSG Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and PsycINFO. 
Selection criteria
All identified randomised controlled trials investigating pharmacological interventions for pain relief during HSG were investigated for selection. 
Data collection and analysis
Four review authors independently extracted data. We combined data to calculate mean differences (MDs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Statistical heterogeneity was assessed using the I² statistic. We assessed the overall quality of the evidence for the main comparisons using GRADE methods. 
Main results
The search identified 23 trials (1272 women) that were eligible for inclusion into the study. 
Oral opioid analgesia versus placebo/no treatment 
There was no evidence of effect for oral opioid analgesia in reducing pain during the procedure (MD −0.91, 95% CI −1.88 to 0.06, 1 study, n = 128, low quality evidence) or more than 30 minutes after the procedure (MD −0.99, 95% CI −1.75 to −0.23, 1 study, n = 128, moderate quality evidence) 
No studies reported on the effect of oral opioid analgesia, when taken prior to the procedure, in reducing pain within 30 minutes after the procedure 
There was insufficient evidence to reach conclusions regarding adverse effects.
Intravenous opioid analgesia versus placebo/no treatment 
There was evidence that intravenous opioids may improve pain relief during the procedure compared to no treatment (MD −3.53, 95% CI −4.29 to −2.77, 1 study, n = 62, moderate quality evidence) 
