Background
Non‐systemic vasculitic neuropathy is a rare disabling disease that usually has a subacute onset of progressive or relapsing‐remitting sensory or sensorimotor deficits. Asymmetry, pain and weakness are key features. The diagnosis can only be made by exclusion of other causes, the absence of systemic vasculitis or other rheumatic diseases, and the demonstration of vasculitis in a nerve or a combined nerve and muscle biopsy. There is a need for efficacious therapy to prevent disease progression and improve prognosis. This is an updated review. 
Objectives
To assess if immunosuppressive treatment in non‐systemic vasculitic neuropathy reduces disability, and ameliorates neurological symptoms, and if such therapy can be given safely. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register was searched again in May 2011, The Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials CENTRAL in The Cochrane Library, Pubmed, EMBASE and Web of Science/ISI Web of Knowledge were searched again in March 2011. Because non‐systemic vascular neuropathy was first recognised in the 1980s, the searches were done from January 1980 onwards. In addition, the reference lists of retrieved articles relevant to and cited in this review were handsearched. 
Selection criteria
All randomised or quasi‐randomised trials that examined the efficacy of immunosuppressive treatment for non‐systemic vasculitic neuropathy at least one year after the onset of therapy were sought. Participants had to fulfil the following criteria: absence of systemic or neurological disease, exclusion of any recognised cause of the neuropathy by appropriate clinical or laboratory investigations, electrophysiological studies in agreement with axonal neuropathy, confirmation of vasculitis in a nerve or a combined nerve and muscle biopsy. The primary outcome was to be improvement in disability. Secondary outcomes were to be change in the mean disability score, change in muscle strength measured with the Medical Research Council sum score, change in pain or other positive sensory symptoms, number of relapses, and adverse events. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently reviewed and extracted details of all potentially relevant trials. For included studies pooled risk ratios and pooled standardised mean differences were to be calculated to assess treatment efficacy. 
