Background
Epilepsy is a common neurological condition that affects up to 1% of the population. Nearly 30% of people with epilepsy are resistant to currently available antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) and require treatment with multiple antiepileptic drugs in combination. Tiagabine is one of the newer AEDs that can be used as an adjunct (add‐on) to standard AEDs. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy and tolerability of tiagabine when used as an add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant focal seizures. 
Search methods
This is an updated Cochrane review, last published in 2014. For the latest update, we searched the following databases on 22 January 2019: Cochrane Register of Studies (CRS Web), which includes the Cochrane Epilepsy Group's Specialized Register and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials, MEDLINE (Ovid, 1946 to January 21, 2019), ClinicalTrials.gov, and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. We imposed no language restrictions. We also contacted the manufacturers of tiagabine and experts in the field to identify any ongoing or unpublished studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised placebo‐controlled add‐on trials conducted in people of any age with focal epilepsy. The studies could be double‐, single‐, or unblinded and of parallel or cross‐over design. They had to have a minimum treatment period of eight weeks. We also included trials using an active drug control group. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and extracted data according to the standard methodological procedures expected by the Cochrane Collaboration for this review update. We resolved disagreements by discussion. Outcomes investigated included 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency, treatment withdrawal, adverse effects, effects on cognition and quality of life. The primary analyses were performed by intention‐to‐treat. We calculated worst‐case and best‐case analyses for seizure outcomes. We evaluated dose response using regression models. Two review authors assessed risk of bias in each study using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool. 
