Background
When preterm infants have been given intermittent positive pressure ventilation (IPPV) for respiratory failure, weaning from support and tracheal extubation may be difficult. A significant contributing factor is thought to be the relatively poor respiratory effort and tendency to develop hypoventilation and apnea, particularly in very preterm infants. Doxapram stimulates breathing and appears to act via stimulation of both the peripheral chemoreceptors and the central nervous system. This effect might increase the chance of successful tracheal extubation. 
Objectives
To determine the effect of doxapram on the use of intubation and IPPV and morbidity in preterm infants being weaned from IPPV and in whom endotracheal extubation is planned. In this regard, how does doxapram compare with standard treatment or with an alternative treatment such as methylxanthine or CPAP? Subgroup analyses were prespecified according to birth weight and/or gestational age, use of co‐interventions (methylxanthines or nasal CPAP), and route of administration (intravenous or oral). 
Search methods
The standard search strategy of the Neonatal Review Group as outlined in The Cochrane Library was used. This included searches of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library), Oxford Database of Perinatal Trials, MEDLINE, EMBASE and CINAHL up to May 2009. 
Selection criteria
Eligible studies included published trials utilising random or quasi‐random patient allocation in which preterm or low birth weight infants being weaned from IPPV were given doxapram compared with standard care or other treatments, to facilitate weaning from IPPV and endotracheal extubation. Trials were independently assessed by the review authors before inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
The standard methods of the Cochrane Collaboration and its Neonatal Review Group were used. Each review author extracted data separately. The results were compared and any differences resolved. The data were synthesized using the standard method of Neonatal Review Group with use of relative risk and risk difference. 
