Background
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is an overwhelming systemic inflammatory process associated with significant morbidity and mortality. Pharmacotherapies that moderate inflammation in ARDS are lacking. Several trials have evaluated the effects of pharmaconutrients, given as part of a feeding formula or as a nutritional supplement, on clinical outcomes in critical illness and ARDS. 
Objectives
To systematically review and critically appraise available evidence on the effects of immunonutrition compared to standard non‐immunonutrition formula feeding on mechanically ventilated adults (aged 18 years or older) with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, CENTRAL, conference proceedings, and trial registries for appropriate studies up to 25 April 2018. We checked the references from published studies and reviews on this topic for potentially eligible studies. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomized controlled trials comparing immunonutrition versus a control or placebo nutritional formula in adults (aged 18 years or older) with ARDS, as defined by the Berlin definition of ARDS or, for older studies, by the American‐European Consensus Criteria for both ARDS and acute lung injury. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the quality of studies and extracted data from the included trials. We sought additional information from study authors. We performed statistical analysis according to Cochrane methodological standards. Our primary outcome was all‐cause mortality. Secondary outcomes included intensive care unit (ICU) length of stay, ventilator days, indices of oxygenation, cardiac adverse events, gastrointestinal adverse events, and total number of adverse events. We used GRADE to assess the quality of evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
We identified 10 randomized controlled trials with 1015 participants. All studies compared an enteral formula or additional supplemental omega‐3 fatty acids (i.e. eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA), docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)), gamma‐linolenic acid (GLA), and antioxidants. We assessed some of the included studies as having high risk of bias due to methodological shortcomings. Studies were heterogenous in nature and varied in several ways, including type and duration of interventions given, calorific targets, and reported outcomes. All studies reported mortality. For the primary outcome, study authors reported no differences in all‐cause mortality (longest period reported) with the use of an immunonutrition enteral formula or additional supplements of omega‐3 fatty acids and antioxidants (risk ratio (RR) 0.79, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.59 to 1.07; participants = 1015; studies = 10; low‐quality evidence). 
For secondary outcomes, we are uncertain whether immunonutrition with omega‐3 fatty acids and antioxidants reduces ICU length of stay (mean difference (MD) ‐3.09 days. 95% CI ‐5.19 to ‐0.99; participants = 639; studies = 8; very low‐quality evidence) and ventilator days (MD ‐2.24 days, 95% CI ‐3.77 to ‐0.71; participants = 581; studies = 7; very low‐quality evidence). We are also uncertain whether omega‐3 fatty acids and antioxidants improve oxygenation, defined as ratio of partial pressure of arterial oxygen (PaO₂) to fraction of inspired oxygen (FiO₂), at day 4 (MD 39 mmHg, 95% CI 10.75 to 67.02; participants = 676; studies = 8), or whether they increase adverse events such as cardiac events (RR 0.87, 95% CI 0.09 to 8.46; participants = 339; studies = 3; very low‐quality evidence), gastrointestinal events (RR 1.11, 95% CI 0.71 to 1.75; participants = 427; studies = 4; very low‐quality evidence), or total adverse events (RR 0.91, 95% CI 0.67 to 1.23; participants = 517; studies = 5; very low‐quality evidence). 
