Background
Diabetes is the commonest cause of chronic kidney disease (CKD). Both conditions commonly co‐exist. Glucometabolic changes and concurrent dialysis in diabetes and CKD make glucose‐lowering challenging, increasing the risk of hypoglycaemia. Glucose‐lowering agents have been mainly studied in people with near‐normal kidney function. It is important to characterise existing knowledge of glucose‐lowering agents in CKD to guide treatment. 
Objectives
To examine the efficacy and safety of insulin and other pharmacological interventions for lowering glucose levels in people with diabetes and CKD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Register of Studies up to 12 February 2018 through contact with the Information Specialist using search terms relevant to this review. Studies in the Register are identified through searches of CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and EMBASE, conference proceedings, the International Clinical Trials Register (ICTRP) Search Portal and ClinicalTrials.gov. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs looking at head‐to‐head comparisons of active regimens of glucose‐lowering therapy or active regimen compared with placebo/standard care in people with diabetes and CKD (estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) < 60 mL/min/1.73 m2) were eligible. 
Data collection and analysis
Four authors independently assessed study eligibility, risk of bias, and quality of data and performed data extraction. Continuous outcomes were expressed as post‐treatment mean differences (MD). Adverse events were expressed as post‐treatment absolute risk differences (RD). Dichotomous clinical outcomes were presented as risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CI). 
Main results
Forty‐four studies (128 records, 13,036 participants) were included. Nine studies compared sodium glucose co‐transporter‐2 (SGLT2) inhibitors to placebo; 13 studies compared dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 (DPP‐4) inhibitors to placebo; 2 studies compared glucagon‐like peptide‐1 (GLP‐1) agonists to placebo; 8 studies compared glitazones to no glitazone treatment; 1 study compared glinide to no glinide treatment; and 4 studies compared different types, doses or modes of administration of insulin. In addition, 2 studies compared sitagliptin to glipizide; and 1 study compared each of sitagliptin to insulin, glitazars to pioglitazone, vildagliptin to sitagliptin, linagliptin to voglibose, and albiglutide to sitagliptin. Most studies had a high risk of bias due to funding and attrition bias, and an unclear risk of detection bias. 
