Background
Acute pulmonary embolism (PE) is a common cause of death, accounting for 50,000 to 200,000 deaths annually. It is the third most common cause of mortality among the cardiovascular diseases, after coronary artery disease and stroke. The advent of multi‐detector computed tomographic pulmonary angiography (CTPA) has allowed better assessment of PE regarding visualisation of the peripheral pulmonary arteries, increasing its rate of diagnosis. More cases of peripheral PEs, such as isolated subsegmental PE (SSPE) and incidental PE, have thereby been identified. These two conditions are usually found in patients with few or none of the classic PE symptoms such as haemoptysis or pleuritic pain, acute dyspnoea or circulatory collapse. However, in patients with reduced cardiopulmonary reserve, classic PE symptoms can be found with isolated SSPEs. Incidental SSPE is found casually in asymptomatic patients, usually by diagnostic imaging performed for other reasons (for example routine CT for cancer staging in oncology patients). Traditionally, all PEs are anticoagulated in a similar manner independent of their location, or number and size of the thrombi. It has been suggested that many patients with SSPE may be treated without benefit, increasing adverse events by a possible unnecessary use of anticoagulants. Patients with isolated SSPE, or incidental PE, may have a more benign clinical presentation compared to those with proximal PEs. However, the clinical significance in patients, and their prognosis, needs to be studied to evaluate whether anticoagulation therapy is required. This is the second update of the Cochrane systematic review published in 2014. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of anticoagulation therapy versus control in patients with isolated subsegmental pulmonary embolism (SSPE) or incidental SSPE. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL and AMED databases and World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 26 November 2019. We also undertook reference checking to identify additional studies. 
