Background
This is an update of the Cochrane review "Rituximab for relapsing‐remitting multiple sclerosis" (first published in The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 12). 
More than 80% of individuals with multiple sclerosis (MS) experience a relapsing‐remitting disease course. Approximately 10 years after disease onset, an estimated 50% of individuals with relapsing‐remitting MS (RRMS) convert to secondary progressive MS. MS causes a major socioeconomic burden for the individual patient and for society. Effective treatment that reduces relapse frequency and prevents progression could impact both costs and quality of life and help to reduce the socioeconomic burden of MS. Alternative and more effective MS treatments with new modes of action and good safety are needed to expand the current treatment repertoire. It has been shown that B lymphocytes are involved in the pathophysiology of MS and rituximab lyses B‐cells via complement‐dependent cytotoxicity and antibody‐dependent cellular cytotoxicity. Current clinical trials are evaluating the role of rituximab as a B‐cell depletion therapy in the treatment of RRMS. 
Objectives
The safety and effectiveness of rituximab, as monotherapy or combination therapy, versus placebo or approved disease‐modifying drugs (DMDs) (interferon‐β (IFN‐β), glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, mitoxantrone, fingolimod, teriflunomide, dimethyl fumarate, alemtuzumab) to reduce disease activity for people with RRMS were assessed. 
Search methods
The Trials Search Co‐ordinator searched the Cochrane Multiple Sclerosis and Rare Diseases of the Central Nervous System Group Specialised Register (9 August 2013). We checked the references in identified trials and manually searched the reports (2004 to August 2013) from neurological associations and MS societies in Europe and America. We also communicated with researchers who were participating in trials on rituximab and contacted Genentech, BiogenIdec and Roche. 
Selection criteria
All randomised, double‐blind, controlled parallel group clinical trials with a length of follow‐up equal to or greater than one year evaluating rituximab, as monotherapy or combination therapy, versus placebo or approved DMDs for patients with RRMS without restrictions regarding dosage, administration frequency and duration of treatment. 
