Background
Treatment with vitamin K antagonists is associated with increased morbidity and mortality. Reversal therapy with prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) is used increasingly and is recommended in the treatment of patients with bleeding complications undertaking surgical interventions, as well as patients at high risk of bleeding. Evidence is lacking regarding indication, dosing, efficacy and safety. 
Objectives
We assessed the benefits and harms of PCC compared with fresh frozen plasma in the acute medical and surgical setting involving vitamin K antagonist‐treated bleeding and non‐bleeding patients. We investigated various outcomes and predefined subgroups and performed sensitivity analysis. We examined risks of bias and applied trial sequential analyses (TSA) to examine the level of evidence, and we prepared a 'Risk of bias’ table to test the quality of the evidence. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases from inception to 1 May 2013: Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE (Ovid SP); EMBASE (Ovid SP); International Web of Science; Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature (LILACS) (via BIREME); the Chinese Biomedical Literature Database; advanced Google and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL). We applied a systematic and sensitive search strategy to identify relevant randomized clinical trials and imposed no language or date restrictions. We adapted our MEDLINE search strategy for searches in all other databases. We reran the search in October 2014 and found one potential new study of interest. We added this study to a list of ‘Studies awaiting classification', and we will incorporate this study into the formal review findings at the time of the review update. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs), irrespective of publication status, date of publication, blinding status, outcomes published or language. We contacted investigators and study authors to request relevant data. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently abstracted data and resolved disagreements by discussion. Our primary outcome measures were 'overall mortality longest follow‐up' and 'overall 28‐day mortality'. We performed subgroup analyses to assess the effects of PCC in adults in terms of various clinical and physiological outcomes. We presented pooled estimates of the effects of interventions on dichotomous outcomes as risk ratios (RRs), and on continuous outcomes as mean differences (MDs), with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed risk of bias by assessing trial methodological components and risk of random error through TSA. 
Main results
We included four RCTs with a total of 453 participants and determined that none of these trials had overall low risk of bias. We found six ongoing trials from which we were unable to retrieve further data. Three trials provided data on mortality. Meta‐analysis showed no statistical effect on overall mortality (RR 0.93, 95% CI 0.37 to 2.33; very low quality of evidence). We were unable to associate use of PCC with the number of complications probably related to the intervention (RR 0.92, 95% CI 0.78 to 1.09; very low quality of evidence). Lack of transfusion data and apparent differences in study design prevented review authors from finding a beneficial effect of PCC in reducing the volume of fresh frozen plasma (FFP) transfused to reverse the effect of vitamin K antagonist treatment. The number of new occurrences of transfusion of red blood cells (RBCs) did not seem to be associated with the use of PCC (RR 1.08, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.43; very low quality of evidence). Still, the included studies demonstrate the possibility of equally reversing vitamin K‐induced coagulopathy using PCC without the need for transfusion of FFP. No effect on other predefined outcomes was observed. 
