Background
Acute gout flares cause significant pain and disability and it is important to provide quick and effective pain relief. Traditional options for managing acute flares include colchicine, non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) and glucocorticoids. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of interleukin‐1 inhibitors (anakinra, canakinumab, rilonacept) in acute gout. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane Library, MEDLINE and EMBASE on 19 June 2013. We applied no date or language restrictions. We performed a handsearch of the abstracts from the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) (2009 to 2012) and American College of Rheumatology (ACR) (2009 to 2011) conferences and of the references of all included trials. We also screened the Clinical Trials Registry Platform of the World Health Organization and Clinical Trials Registry Platform of the US National Institutes of Health. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomised clinical trials (controlled clinical trials (CCTs)) assessing an interleukin‐1 inhibitor (anakinra, canakinumab or rilonacept) against placebo or another active treatment (colchicine, paracetamol, NSAIDs, glucocorticoids (systemic or intra‐articular), adrenocorticotropin hormone, a different interleukin‐1 blocking agent or a combination of any of the above) in adults with acute gout. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected trials for inclusion, assessed the risk of bias and extracted the data. If appropriate, we pooled data in a meta‐analysis. We assessed the quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included four studies (806 participants) in the review. The studies had an unclear risk of selection bias and low risk of performance and attrition biases. One study each had an unclear risk of detection and selection bias. 
Three studies (654 participants) compared subcutaneous canakinumab compared with intramuscular triamcinolone acetonide 40 mg in the treatment of acute gout flares of no more than five days' duration. Doses of canakinumab were varied (10 to 150 mg), but most people (255/368) were treated with canakinumab 150 mg. None of the studies provided data on participant‐reported pain relief of 30% or greater. Moderate‐quality evidence indicated that canakinumab 150 mg was probably superior to triamcinolone acetonide 40 mg in terms of pain relief, resolution of joint swelling and in achieving a good treatment response at 72 hours following treatment, but was probably associated with an increased risk of adverse events. 
