Background
Chronic kidney disease‐mineral and bone disorder (CKD‐MBD) is a systemic dysfunction of mineral and bone metabolism in people with CKD. Recent research shows that phosphate retention plays a significant role in the development of CKD‐MBD. Compared with drug therapies, dietary interventions may be simple, inexpensive and feasible for phosphate retention. However, there is little evidence to support these interventions. 
Objectives
Our objective was to assess the benefits and harms of any dietary intervention for preventing and treating CKD‐MBD. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Kidney and Transplant's Specialised Register to 27 August 2015 through contact with the Trials' Search Co‐ordinator using search terms relevant to this review. We also searched the Chinese Biomedicine Database (CBM) (1976 to August 2015), China Knowledge Resource Integrated Database (CNKI) (1979 to August 2015), and VIP (1989 to August 2015). 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs looking at dietary interventions for prevention or treatment of CKD‐MBD were eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the eligibility, methodological quality, and extracted data. Continuous outcomes (serum calcium level, serum phosphorus level, calcium × phosphate product, parathyroid hormone (PTH), fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF‐23) and alkaline phosphatase) were expressed as mean difference (MD) with 95% confidence interval (CI). Dichotomous outcomes (mortality) were expressed as risk ratio (RR) with 95% CI. We used a random‐effects model to meta‐analyse studies. 
Main results
Nine studies were included in this review which analysed 634 participants. Study duration ranged from 4 to 24 weeks. The interventions included calcium‐enriched bread, low phosphorus intake, low protein intake, very low protein intake, post haemodialysis supplements and hypolipaemic diet. Only one study reported death; none of the included studies reported cardiovascular events or fractures. There was insufficient reporting of design and methodological aspects among the included studies to enable robust assessment of risk of bias. 
There was limited and low‐quality evidence to indicate that calcium‐enriched bread increased serum calcium (1 study, 53 participants: MD ‐0.16 mmol/L, 95% CI ‐0.51 to ‐0.31), decreased serum phosphorus (53 participants: MD ‐0.41 mmol/L, 95% CI ‐0.51 to ‐0.31) and decreased the calcium × phosphate product (53 participants: MD ‐0.62 mmol²/L², 95% CI ‐0.77 to ‐0.47). 
