Background
Pelvic organ prolapse is common and can be detected in up to 50% of parous women although many are asymptomatic. Oestrogen preparations are used to improve vaginal thinning (atrophy). It is possible that oestrogens, alone or in conjunction with other interventions, might prevent or assist in the management of pelvic organ prolapse, for example by improving the strength of weakened supporting structures. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of oestrogens or drugs with oestrogenic effects alone, or in conjunction with other treatments, both for prevention and treatment of pelvic organ prolapse. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Incontinence Group Specialised Register of trials (searched 6 May 2010), MEDLINE (January 1950 to April 2010) as well as reference lists of relevant articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials that included the use of any oestrogens or drugs with oestrogenic (or anti‐oestrogenic) actions for pelvic organ prolapse. 
Data collection and analysis
Trials were assessed and data extracted independently by two review authors.
Main results
Three trials and one meta‐analysis of adverse effects of a further three trials were identified. One trial did not provide useable data. Two trials included 148 women with prolapse, one included 58 postmenopausal women and the meta‐analysis reported a mixed population (women with and without prolapse) of postmenopausal women (N=6984). The meta analysis and one other small trial investigated the effect of selective oestrogen receptor modulators (SERMs) for treatment or prevention of osteoporosis but also collected data of the effects on prolapse. Interventions included oestradiol, conjugated equine oestrogen and two (SERMs), raloxifene and tamoxifen. Only one small trial addressed the primary outcome (prolapse symptoms). 
One small treatment trial of oestradiol for three weeks before prolapse surgery found a reduced incidence of cystitis in the first four weeks after surgery but this unexpected finding needs to be confirmed in a larger trial. 
