Background
Chronic lung disease (CLD) occurs frequently in preterm infants. Bronchodilators have the potential effect of dilating small airways with muscle hypertrophy. Increased compliance and tidal volume and decreased pulmonary resistance have been documented with the use of bronchodilators in infants with CLD. Therefore, bronchodilators might have a role in the prevention and treatment of CLD. 
Objectives
To determine the effect of bronchodilators given as prophylaxis or as treatment for CLD on mortality and other complications of preterm birth in infants at risk for or identified as having CLD. 
Search methods
On 2016 March 7, we used the standard strategy of the Cochrane Neonatal Review Group to search the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2016, Issue 2), MEDLINE (from 1966), Embase (from 1980) and the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL; from 1982). We searched clinical trials databases, conference proceedings and the reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials and quasi‐randomised trials. We applied no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled trials involving preterm infants were eligible for inclusion. Initiation of bronchodilator therapy for prevention of CLD had to occur within two weeks of birth. Treatment of patients with CLD had to be initiated before discharge from the neonatal unit. The intervention had to include administration of a bronchodilator by nebulisation, by metered dose inhaler (with or without a spacer device) or by intravenous or oral administration versus placebo or no intervention. Eligible studies had to include at least one of the following predefined clinical outcomes: mortality, CLD, number of days on oxygen, number of days on ventilator, patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), pulmonary interstitial emphysema (PIE), pneumothorax, intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH) of any grade, necrotising enterocolitis (NEC), sepsis and adverse effects of bronchodilators. 
