Background
Early diagnosis of leptospirosis may contribute to the effectiveness of antimicrobial therapy and early outbreak recognition. Nucleic acid and antigen detection tests have the potential for early diagnosis of leptospirosis. With this systematic review, we assessed the sensitivity and specificity of nucleic acid and antigen detection tests. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic test accuracy of nucleic acid and antigen detection tests for the diagnosis of human symptomatic leptospirosis. 
Search methods
We searched electronic databases including MEDLINE, Embase, the Cochrane Library, and regional databases from inception to 6 July 2018. We did not apply restrictions to language or time of publication. 
Selection criteria
We included diagnostic cross‐sectional studies and case‐control studies of tests that made use of nucleic acid and antigen detection methods in people suspected of systemic leptospirosis. As reference standards, we considered the microscopic agglutination test alone (which detects antibodies against leptospirosis) or in a composite reference standard with culturing or other serological tests. Studies were excluded when the controls were healthy individuals or when there were insufficient data to calculate sensitivity and specificity. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors independently extracted data from each study. We used the revised Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies tool (QUADAS‐2) to assess risk of bias. We calculated study‐specific values for sensitivity and specificity with 95% confidence intervals (CI) and pooled the results in a meta‐analysis when appropriate. We used the bivariate model for index tests with one positivity threshold, and we used the hierarchical summary receiver operating characteristic model for index tests with multiple positivity thresholds. As possible sources of heterogeneity, we explored: timing of index test, disease prevalence, blood sample type, primers or target genes, and the real‐time polymerase chain reaction (PCR) visualisation method. These were added as covariates to the meta‐regression models. 
Main results
We included 41 studies evaluating nine index tests (conventional PCR (in short: PCR), real‐time PCR, nested PCR, PCR performed twice, loop‐mediated isothermal amplification, enzyme‐linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA), dot‐ELISA, immunochromatography‐based lateral flow assay, and dipstick assay) with 5981 participants (1834 with and 4147 without leptospirosis). Methodological quality criteria were often not reported, and the risk of bias of the reference standard was generally considered high. The applicability of findings was limited by the frequent use of frozen samples. We conducted meta‐analyses for the PCR and the real‐time PCR on blood products. 
