Background
Chronic heart failure (HF) is a growing global health challenge. People with HF experience substantial burden that includes low exercise tolerance, poor health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), increased risk of mortality and hospital admission, and high healthcare costs. The previous (2014) Cochrane systematic review reported that exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) compared to no exercise control shows improvement in HRQoL and hospital admission among people with HF, as well as possible reduction in mortality over the longer term, and that these reductions appear to be consistent across patient and programme characteristics. Limitations noted by the authors of this previous Cochrane Review include the following: (1) most trials were undertaken in patients with HF with reduced (< 45%) ejection fraction (HFrEF), and women, older people, and those with preserved (≥ 45%) ejection fraction HF (HFpEF) were under‐represented; and (2) most trials were undertaken in the hospital/centre‐based setting. 
Objectives
To determine the effects of exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation on mortality, hospital admission, and health‐related quality of life of people with heart failure. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, and three other databases on 29 January 2018. We also checked the bibliographies of systematic reviews and two trial registers. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials that compared exercise‐based CR interventions with six months' or longer follow‐up versus a no exercise control that could include usual medical care. The study population comprised adults (> 18 years) with evidence of HF ‐ either HFrEF or HFpEF. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened all identified references and rejected those that were clearly ineligible for inclusion in the review. We obtained full papers of potentially relevant trials. Two review authors independently extracted data from the included trials, assessed their risk of bias, and performed GRADE analyses. 
Main results
We included 44 trials (5783 participants with HF) with a median of six months' follow‐up. For this latest update, we identified 11 new trials (N = 1040), in addition to the previously identified 33 trials. Although the evidence base includes predominantly patients with HFrEF with New York Heart Association classes II and III receiving centre‐based exercise‐based CR programmes, a growing body of studies include patients with HFpEF and are undertaken in a home‐based setting. All included studies included a no formal exercise training intervention comparator. However, a wide range of comparators were seen across studies that included active intervention (i.e. education, psychological intervention) or usual medical care alone. The overall risk of bias of included trials was low or unclear, and we downgraded results using the GRADE tool for all but one outcome. 
