Background
Acne vulgaris, a chronic inflammatory disease of the pilosebaceous unit associated with socialisation and mental health problems, may affect more than 80% of teenagers. Isotretinoin is widely recognised as a very effective treatment for severe acne; however, it may cause adverse effects. 
Objectives
To assess efficacy and safety of oral isotretinoin for acne vulgaris.
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to July 2017: the Cochrane Skin Group Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO and LILACS. We updated this search in March 2018, but these results have not yet been incorporated in the review. We also searched five trial registries, checked the reference lists of retrieved studies for further references to relevant trials, and handsearched dermatology conference proceedings. A separate search for adverse effects of oral isotretinoin was undertaken in MEDLINE and Embase up to September 2013. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials (RCTs) of oral isotretinoin in participants with clinically diagnosed acne compared against placebo, any other systemic or topical active therapy, and itself in different formulation, doses, regimens, or course duration. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We included 31 RCTs, involving 3836 participants (12 to 55 years) with mild to severe acne. There were twice as many male participants as females. 
Most studies were undertaken in Asia, Europe, and North America. Outcomes were generally measured between eight to 32 weeks (mean 19.7) of therapy. 
Assessed comparisons included oral isotretinoin versus placebo or other treatments such as antibiotics. In addition, different doses, regimens, or formulations of oral isotretinoin were assessed, as well as oral isotretinoin with the addition of topical agents. 
Pharmaceutical companies funded 12 included trials. All, except three studies, had high risk of bias in at least one domain. Attrition bias was high in 20 trials, selective reporting bias was high in 12 trials, and performance bias was high in 11 trials. 
Oral isotretinoin compared with oral antibiotics plus topical agents 
These studies included participants with moderate or severe acne and assessed outcomes immediately after 20 to 24 weeks of treatment (short‐term). Three studies (400 participants) showed no evidence that isotretinoin decreases trial investigator‐assessed inflammatory lesion count more than antibiotics (RR 1.01 95% CI 0.96 to 1.06), with only one serious adverse effect found, which was Stevens‐Johnson syndrome in the isotretinoin group (RR 3.00, 95% CI 0.12 to 72.98). However, we are uncertain about these results as they were based on very low‐quality evidence. 
