Background
Hair has traditionally been removed from the surgical site before surgery; however, some studies claim that this increases surgical site infections (SSIs) and should be avoided. This is the second update of a review published in 2006 and first updated in 2011. 
Objectives
To determine whether routine preoperative hair removal (compared with no removal) and the method, timing, or setting of hair removal effect SSI rates. 
Search methods
In November 2019, for this second update we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase; and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trial registries for ongoing and unpublished studies, and scanned the reference lists of included studies plus reviews to identify additional studies. We applied no date or language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials or quasi‐randomised trials that compared:
· hair removal with no hair removal;· different methods of hair removal; and· hair removal at different times before surgery. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the relevance of each study. Data were extracted independently by both review authors and cross‐checked. We carried out 'Risk of bias' assessment using the Cochrane 'Risk of bias' tool and assessed the certainty of evidence according to GRADE. Sensitivity analyses excluding studies at high risk of bias were conducted. 
Main results
We included 11 new studies in this update resulting in a total of 19 randomised and 6 quasi‐randomised trials (8919 participants). 
Clipping compared with no hair removal 
Low certainty evidence suggests there may be little difference in risk of SSI when no hair removal is compared with hair removal using clippers (risk ratio (RR) 0.95, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.65 to 1.39; three studies with 1733 participants). 
