Background
Keratoconus is the most common corneal dystrophy. It can cause loss of uncorrected and best‐corrected visual acuity through ectasia (thinning) of the central or paracentral cornea, irregular corneal scarring, or corneal perforation. Disease onset usually occurs in the second to fourth decade of life, periods of peak educational attainment or career development. The condition is lifelong and sight‐threatening. 
Corneal collagen crosslinking (CXL) using ultraviolet A (UVA) light applied to the cornea is the only treatment that has been shown to slow progression of disease. The original, more widely known technique involves application of UVA light to de‐epithelialized cornea, to which a photosensitizer (riboflavin) is added topically throughout the irradiation process. 
Transepithelial CXL is a recently advocated alternative to the standard CXL procedure, in that the epithelium is kept intact during CXL. Retention of the epithelium offers the putative advantages of faster healing, less patient discomfort, faster visual rehabilitation, and less risk of corneal haze. 
Objectives
To assess the short‐ and long‐term effectiveness and safety of transepithelial CXL compared with epithelium‐off CXL for progressive keratoconus. 
Search methods
To identify potentially eligible studies, we searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register) (2020, Issue 1); Ovid MEDLINE; Embase.com; PubMed; Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature database (LILACS); ClinicalTrials.gov; and World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP). We did not impose any date or language restrictions. We last searched the electronic databases on 15 January 2020. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) in which transepithelial CXL had been compared with epithelium‐off CXL in participants with progressive keratoconus. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methodology.
Main results
We included 13 studies with 661 eyes of 567 participants enrolled; 13 to 119 participants were enrolled per study. Seven studies were conducted in Europe, three in the Middle East, and one each in India, Russia, and Turkey. Seven studies were parallel‐group RCTs, one study was an RCT with a paired‐eyes design, and five studies were RCTs in which both eyes of some or all participants were assigned to the same intervention. 
