Background
Many infants born preterm develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD), with lung inflammation playing a role. Corticosteroids have powerful anti‐inflammatory effects and have been used to treat individuals with established BPD. However, it is unclear whether any beneficial effects outweigh the adverse effects of these drugs. 
Objectives
To examine the relative benefits and adverse effects of late (starting at seven or more days after birth) systemic postnatal corticosteroid treatment for preterm infants with evolving or established BPD. 
Search methods
We ran an updated search on 25 September 2020 of the following databases: CENTRAL via CRS Web and MEDLINE via OVID. We also searched clinical trials databases and reference lists of retrieved articles for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We did not include quasi‐RCTs. 
Selection criteria
We selected for inclusion in this review RCTs comparing systemic (intravenous or oral) postnatal corticosteroid treatment versus placebo or no treatment started at seven or more days after birth for preterm infants with evolving or established BPD. We did not include trials of inhaled corticosteroids. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard Cochrane methods. We extracted and analysed data regarding clinical outcomes that included mortality, BPD, and cerebral palsy. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. 
Main results
Use of the GRADE approach revealed that the certainty of evidence was high for most of the major outcomes considered, except for BPD at 36 weeks for all studies combined and for the dexamethasone subgroup, which were downgraded one level to moderate because of evidence of publication bias, and for the combined outcome of mortality or BPD at 36 weeks for all studies combined and for the dexamethasone subgroup, which were downgraded one level to moderate because of evidence of substantial heterogeneity. 
We included 23 RCTs (1817 infants); 21 RCTS (1382 infants) involved dexamethasone (one also included hydrocortisone) and two RCTs (435 infants) involved hydrocortisone only. The overall risk of bias of included studies was low; all were RCTs and most trials used rigorous methods. 
Late systemic corticosteroids overall reduce mortality to the latest reported age (risk ratio (RR) 0.81, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.66 to 0.99; 21 studies, 1428 infants; high‐certainty evidence). Within the subgroups by drug, neither dexamethasone (RR 0.85, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.11; 19 studies, 993 infants; high‐certainty evidence) nor hydrocortisone (RR 0.74, 95% CI 0.54 to 1.02; 2 studies, 435 infants; high‐certainty evidence) alone clearly reduce mortality to the latest reported age. We found little evidence for statistical heterogeneity between the dexamethasone and hydrocortisone subgroups (P = 0.51 for subgroup interaction). 
