Background
Length of postnatal hospital stay has declined dramatically in the past 50 years. There is ongoing controversy about whether staying less time in hospital is harmful or beneficial. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2002, and previously updated in 2009. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of a policy of early postnatal discharge from hospital for healthy mothers and term infants in terms of important maternal, infant and paternal health and related outcomes. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (21 May 2021) and the reference lists of retrieved articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing early discharge from hospital of healthy mothers and term infants (at least 37 weeks' gestation and greater than or equal to 2500 g), with the standard care in the respective settings in which trials were conducted. Trials using allocation methods that were not truly random (e.g. based on patient number or day of the week), trials with a cluster‐randomisation design and trials published only in abstract form were also eligible for inclusion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted and checked data for accuracy, and assessed the certainty of evidence using the GRADE approach. We contacted authors of ongoing trials for additional information. 
Main results
We identified 17 trials (involving 9409 women) that met our inclusion criteria. We did not identify any trials from low‐income countries. There was substantial variation in the definition of 'early discharge', ranging from six hours to four to five days. The extent of antenatal preparation and midwifery home care offered to women following discharge in intervention and control groups also varied considerably among trials. Nine trials recruited and randomised women in pregnancy, seven trials randomised women following childbirth and one did not report whether randomisation took place before or after childbirth. 
Risk of bias was generally unclear in most domains due to insufficient reporting of trial methods. The certainty of evidence is moderate to low and the reasons for downgrading were high or unclear risk of bias, imprecision (low numbers of events or wide 95% confidence intervals (CI)), and inconsistency (heterogeneity in direction and size of effect). 
Infant outcomes 
Early discharge probably slightly increases the number of infants readmitted within 28 days for neonatal morbidity (including jaundice, dehydration, infections) (risk ratio (RR) 1.59, 95% CI 1.27 to 1.98; 6918 infants; 10 studies; moderate‐certainty evidence). In the early discharge group, the risk of infant readmission was 69 per 1000 infants compared to 43 per 1000 infants in the standard care group. It is uncertain whether early discharge has any effect on the risk of infant mortality within 28 days (RR 0.39, 95% CI 0.04 to 3.74; 4882 infants; two studies; low‐certainty evidence). Early postnatal discharge probably makes little to no difference in the number of infants having at least one unscheduled medical consultation or contact with health professionals within the first four weeks after birth (RR 0.88, 95% CI 0.67 to 1.16; 639 infants; four studies; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
Maternal outcomes 
Early discharge probably results in little to no difference in women readmitted within six weeks postpartum for complications related to childbirth (RR 1.12, 95% CI 0.82 to 1.54; 6992 women; 11 studies; moderate‐certainty evidence) but the wide 95% CI indicates the possibility that the true effect is either an increase or a reduction in risk. Similarly, early discharge may result in little to no difference in the risk of depression within six months postpartum (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.46 to 1.42; 4333 women; five studies; low‐certainty evidence) but the wide 95% CI suggests the possibility that the true effect is either an increase or a reduction in risk. 
Early discharge probably results in little to no difference in women breastfeeding at six weeks postpartum (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.13; 7156 women; 10 studies; moderate‐certainty evidence) or in the number of women having at least one unscheduled medical consultation or contact with health professionals (RR 0.72, 95% CI 0.43 to 1.20; 464 women; two studies; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
Maternal mortality within six weeks postpartum was not reported in any of the studies.
Costs 
Early discharge may slightly reduce the costs of hospital care in the period immediately following the birth up to the time of discharge (low‐certainty evidence; data not pooled) but it may result in little to no difference in costs of postnatal care following discharge from hospital, in the period up to six weeks after the birth (low‐certainty evidence; data not pooled). 
