Background
Leg cramps are a common problem in pregnancy. Various interventions have been used to treat them, including drug, electrolyte and vitamin therapies, and non‐drug therapies. This Cochrane Review is an update of a review first published in 2015. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of different interventions for treating leg cramps in pregnancy. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth’s Trials Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (25 September 2019), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of any intervention for the treatment of leg cramps in pregnancy compared with placebo, no treatment or other treatments. Quinine was excluded for its known adverse effects. Cluster‐RCTS were eligible for inclusion. Quasi‐RCTs and cross‐over studies were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Three review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data and checked them for accuracy. The certainty of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included eight small studies (576 women). Frequency of leg cramps was our primary outcome and secondary outcomes included intensity and duration of leg cramps, adverse outcomes for mother and baby and health‐related quality of life. Overall, the studies were at low or unclear risk of bias. Outcomes were reported in different ways, precluding the use of meta‐analysis and thus data were limited to single trials. Certainty of evidence was assessed as either low or very‐low due to serious limitations in study design and imprecision. 
Oral magnesium versus placebo/no treatment 
The results for frequency of leg cramps were inconsistent. In one study, results indicated that women may be more likely to report never having any leg cramps after treatment (risk ratio (RR) 5.66, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.35 to 23.68, 1 trial, 69 women, low‐certainty evidence); whilst fewer women may report having twice‐weekly leg cramps (RR 0.29, 95% CI 0.11 to 0.80, 1 trial, 69 women); and more women may report a 50% reduction in number of leg cramps after treatment (RR 1.42, 95% CI 1.09 to 1.86, 1 trial, 86 women, low‐certainty evidence). However, other findings indicated that magnesium may make little to no difference in the frequency of leg cramps during differing periods of treatment. 
