Background
Drug users (including both injection drug users and crack cocaine users), are at high levels of risk for contracting HIV. Therefore it is important to reduce the injection and/or sexual risk behaviours of these groups both for the benefit of themselves and for society as a whole. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy of multi‐session psychosocial interventions in comparison with standard education and minimal intervention controls for the reduction of injection and sexual risk behaviour. 
Search methods
Electronic searches were conducted of a number of bibliographic databases (including Cochrane Library, CINAHL, MEDLINE, PsycINFO). In addition, other methods of locating papers were employed including contacting various authors working in the field of HIV risk reduction and examining reference lists of applicable papers identified in the electronic search. 
Selection criteria
The inclusion criteria consisted of randomised and quazi‐randomised trials assessing the efficacy of psychosocial interventions in the reduction of injection and sexual risk behaviour for people who misused opiates, cocaine, or a combination of these drugs. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently assessed the eligibility of studies identified by the search strategy, quality assessed these studies and extracted the data. A total of 35 trials met the eligibility criteria of the review providing data on 11,867 participants. 
Main results
There were minimal differences identified between multi‐session psychosocial interventions and standard educational interventions for both injection and sexual risk behaviour. Although it should be noted there were large pre‐post changes for both groups suggesting both were effective in reducing risk behaviours. In addition, there was some evidence of benefit for multi‐session psychosocial interventions when compared with minimal controls. Subgroup analyses suggest that people in formal treatment are likely to respond to multi‐session psychosocial interventions. It also appears single‐gender groups may be associated with greater benefit. 
