Background
Dengue is a common and important mosquito‐borne viral infection. In many low‐ and middle‐income countries it is endemic and is an important public health problem. Severe dengue is an important cause of death in children. There is no specific treatment for dengue, but observational studies suggest corticosteroids may have a benefit in dengue‐related shock, and some people believe corticosteroids may prevent the progression to severe illness if given early in the course of the illness. 
Objectives
To compare treatment of dengue with and without use of corticosteroids or placebo in relation to preventing shock‐related death and disease progression in children and adults. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Disease Group Centralized Register; CENTRAL; MEDLINE; EMBASE; and LILACS, up to 6 January 2014. We screened reference lists and contacted the relevant study authors for additional information where required. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials or quasi‐randomized controlled trials comparing corticosteroids with placebo or no corticosteroids in patients diagnosed with dengue‐related shock, or patients in an early symptomatic state of dengue with positive serology. 
Data collection and analysis
Two researchers independently screened eligibility of records, extracted data and assessed quality of the studies. We presented findings in meta‐analysis and summary of findings tables and evaluated the quality of evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
We included eight studies enrolling 948 participants in this review.
Paitents with dengue‐related shock 
Four studies enrolled children younger than 15 years with dengue‐related shock at hospitals in Southeast Asia and evaluated intravenous corticosteroids. The trials did not detect an effect on death (four trials, 284 participants, very low quality evidence), the need for blood transfusion (two trials, 89 participants, very low quality evidence), pulmonary haemorrhage (one trial, 63 participants, very low quality evidence), convulsions (one trial, 63 participants, very low quality evidence), or duration of hospitalization (one trial, 63 participants, very low quality evidence). The body of evidence is too small to confidently prove or exclude clinically important effects. Furthermore, the trials are more than 20 years old with several methodological limitations. 
