Background
Current treatment guidelines for limited‐stage small‐cell lung cancer (SCLC) recommend concomitant platinum‐based chemo‐radiotherapy plus prophylactic cranial irradiation, based on the premise that SCLC disseminates early, and is chemosensitive. However, although there is usually a favourable initial response, relapse is common and the cure rate for limited‐stage SCLC remains relatively poor. Some recent clinical practice guidelines have recommended surgery for stage 1 (limited) SCLC followed by adjuvant chemotherapy, but this recommendation is largely based on the findings of observational studies. 
Objectives
To determine whether, in patients with limited‐stage SCLC, surgical resection of cancer improves overall survival and treatment‐related deaths compared with radiotherapy or chemotherapy, or a combination of radiotherapy and chemotherapy, or best supportive care. 
Search methods
We performed searches on CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and Web of Science up to 11 January 2017. We handsearched review articles, clinical trial registries, and reference lists of retrieved articles. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with adults diagnosed with limited‐stage SCLC, confirmed by cytology or histology, and radiological assessment, considered medically suitable for resection and radical radiotherapy, which randomised participants to surgery versus any other intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
We imported studies identified by the search into a reference manager database. We retrieved the full‐text version of relevant studies, and two review authors independently extracted data. The primary outcome measures were overall survival and treatment‐related deaths; and secondary outcome measures included loco‐regional progression, quality of life, and adverse events. 
Main results
We included three trials with 330 participants. We judged the quality of the evidence as very low for all the outcomes. The quality of the data was limited by the lack of complete outcome reporting, unclear risk of bias in the methods in which the studies were conducted, and the age of the studies (> 20 years). The methods of cancer staging and types of surgical procedures, which do not reflect current practice, reduced our confidence in the estimation of the effect. 
