Background
Neovascular glaucoma (NVG) is a potentially blinding, secondary glaucoma. It is caused by the formation of abnormal new blood vessels, which prevent normal drainage of aqueous from the anterior segment of the eye. Anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) medications are specific inhibitors of the primary mediators of neovascularization. Studies have reported the effectiveness of anti‐VEGF medications for the control of intraocular pressure (IOP) in NVG. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of intraocular anti‐VEGF medications, alone or with one or more type of conventional therapy, compared with no anti‐VEGF medications for the treatment of NVG. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register); MEDLINE; Embase; PubMed; and LILACS to 22 March 2019; metaRegister of Controlled Trials to 13 August 2013; and two additional trial registers to 22 March 2019. We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic search for trials. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of people treated with anti‐VEGF medications for NVG. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed the search results for trials, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias, and the certainty of the evidence. We resolved discrepancies through discussion. 
Main results
We included four RCTs (263 participants) and identified one ongoing RCT. Each trial was conducted in a different country: China, Brazil, Egypt, and Japan. We assessed the trials to have an unclear risk of bias for most domains due to insufficient information. Two trials compared intravitreal bevacizumab combined with Ahmed valve implantation and panretinal photocoagulation (PRP) with Ahmed valve implantation and PRP. We did not combine these two trials due to substantial clinical and statistical heterogeneity. One trial randomised participants to receive an injection of either an intravitreal anti‐VEGF medication or placebo at the first visit, followed by non‐randomised treatment according to clinical findings after one week. The last trial randomised participants to PRP with and without ranibizumab, but details of the study were unavailable for further analysis. 
Two trials that examined IOP showed inconsistent results. One found inconclusive results for mean IOP between participants who received anti‐VEGF medications and those who did not, at one month (mean difference [MD] ‐1.60 mmHg, 95% confidence interval [CI] ‐4.98 to 1.78; 40 participants), and at one year (MD 1.40 mmHg, 95% CI ‐4.04 to 6.84; 30 participants). Sixty‐five percent of the participants with anti‐VEGF medications achieved IOP ≤ 21 mmHg, versus 60% without anti‐VEGF medications. In another trial, those who received anti‐VEGF medications were more likely to reduce their IOP than those who did not receive them, at one month (MD ‐6.50 mmHg, 95% CI ‐7.93 to ‐5.07; 40 participants), and at one year (MD ‐12.00 mmHg, 95% CI ‐16.79 to ‐7.21; 40 participants). Ninety‐five percent of the participants with anti‐VEGF medications achieved IOP ≤ 21 mmHg, versus 50% without anti‐VEGF medications. The certainty of a body of evidence was low for this outcome due to limitations in the design and inconsistency of results between studies. 
Post‐operative complications included anterior chamber bleeding (3 eyes) and conjunctival hemorrhage (2 participants) in the anti‐VEGF medications group, and retinal detachment and phthisis bulbi (1 participant each) in the control group. The certainty of evidence is low due to imprecision of results and indirectness of evidence. 
No trial reported the proportion of participants with improvement in visual acuity, proportion of participants with complete regression of new iris vessels, or the proportion of participants with relief of pain and resolution of redness at four‐ to six‐week, or one‐year follow‐up. 
Authors' conclusions
Currently available evidence is uncertain regarding the long‐term effectiveness of anti‐VEGF medications, such as intravitreal ranibizumab or bevacizumab or aflibercept, as an adjunct to conventional treatment in lowering IOP in NVG. More research is needed to investigate the long‐term effect of these medications compared with, or in addition to, conventional surgical or medical treatment in lowering IOP in NVG. 
