Background
Plasmodium vivax liver stages (hypnozoites) may cause relapses, prolonging morbidity, and impeding malaria control and elimination. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends three schedules for primaquine: 0.25 mg/kg/day (standard), or 0.5 mg/kg/day (high standard) for 14 days, or 0.75 mg/kg once weekly for eight weeks, all of which can be difficult to complete. Since primaquine can cause haemolysis in individuals with glucose‐6‐phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD) deficiency, clinicians may be reluctant to prescribe primaquine without G6PD testing, and recommendations when G6PD status is unknown must be based on an assessment of the risks and benefits of prescribing primaquine. Alternative safe and efficacious regimens are needed. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of alternative primaquine regimens for radical cure of P vivax malaria compared to the standard or high‐standard 14‐day courses. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Infectious Diseases Group Specialized Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); MEDLINE (PubMed); Embase (Ovid); LILACS (BIREME); WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov up to 2 September 2019, and checked the reference lists of all identified studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) of adults and children with P vivax malaria using either chloroquine or artemisinin‐based combination therapy plus primaquine at a total adult dose of at least 210 mg, compared with the WHO‐recommended regimens of 0.25 or 0.5 mg/kg/day for 14 days. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial eligibility and quality, and extracted data. We calculated risk ratios (RRs) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for dichotomous data. We grouped efficacy data according to length of follow‐up, partner drug, and trial location. We analysed safety data where included. 
Main results
0.5 mg/kg/day for seven days versus standard 0.25 mg/kg/day for 14 days 
There may be little or no difference in P vivax recurrences at six to seven months when using the same total dose (210 mg adult dose) over seven days compared to 14 days (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.66 to 1.39; 4 RCTs, 1211 participants; low‐certainty evidence). No serious adverse events were reported. We do not know if there is any difference in the number of adverse events resulting in discontinuation of primaquine (RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.15 to 7.38; 5 RCTs, 1427 participants) or in the frequency of anaemia (RR 3.00, 95% CI 0.12 to 72.91, 1 RCT, 240 participants) between the shorter and longer regimens (very low‐certainty evidence). Three trials excluded people with G6PD deficiency; two did not provide this information. Pregnant and lactating women were either excluded or no details were provided. 
