Background
Aortic dissection is a separation of the aortic wall, caused by blood flowing through a tear in the inner layer of the aorta. Aortic dissection is an infrequent but life‐threatening condition. The incidence of aortic dissection is 3 to 6 per 10,000 per year in the Western population, and can be up to 43 per 10,000 per year in the Eastern population. Over 20% of people with an aortic dissection do not reach a hospital alive. After admission, the mortality rates for people with an aortic dissection are between 10% and 20% for those who received endovascular treatment, and between 20% and 30% for those who had open surgery. 
Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) is the standard endovascular method to treat complicated type B aortic dissection (aortic dissections without involvement of the ascending aorta). Although TEVAR is less invasive than open surgery and has a better long‐term aortic remodeling effect than conservative medical treatment, favourable aortic remodelling is usually limited to the thoracic aortic segment. TEVAR cannot be extended into the abdominal aorta because it could cover the ostia of the reno‐visceral arteries. Thus, the abdominal aorta is still at risk of progressive aneurysmal degeneration. The PETTICOAT (provisional extension to induce complete attachment) technique, with proximal endograft and distal bare metal stent, was proposed in 2006 to address this issue. The concept of this technique was to implant a distal bare metal stent into the aortic true lumen, distal to the proximal endograft, to stabilize the distal collapsed intimal flap, while allowing blood flow to reno‐visceral arteries. Therefore, the PETTICOAT technique was considered to be related to a more extensive aortic remodelling for people with type B aortic dissection, especially in the area of the abdominal aorta. However, it is still unclear whether the PETTICOAT technique is superior to standard TEVAR. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of combined proximal descending aortic endografting plus distal bare metal stenting versus conventional proximal descending aortic stent graft repair for treating complicated type B aortic dissections. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase and Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) databases, and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to 5 November 2018. We also undertook reference checking and citation searching to identify additional studies. 
Selection criteria
We considered all randomised controlled trials which compared the outcome of complicated type B aortic dissection, when treated by combined proximal descending aortic endografting plus distal bare metal stenting (PETTICOAT technique) versus conventional proximal descending aortic stent graft repair. 
