Background
The efficacy of pancreatic enzymes in reducing pain and improving steatorrhoea is debatable and the evidence base for their utility needs to be determined. 
Objectives
To evaluate the efficacy of pancreatic enzymes in patients with chronic pancreatitis. The specific objectives were to compare the following: 1) pancreatic enzyme versus placebo; 2) different pancreatic enzyme preparations and 3) different dosage schedules of the enzyme preparations. We evaluated the following outcomes: change in frequency of abdominal pain, duration of pain episodes, intensity of pain, weight loss, steatorrhoea, faecal fat and quality of life. 
Search methods
We devised a search strategy to detect all published and unpublished literature and the search included CENTRAL (The Cochrane Library 2009, issue 1), MEDLINE (1965 to February 2009) and EMBASE (1974 to Feburary 2009). We handsearched reference lists and published abstracts from conference proceedings to identify further relevant trials. The date of the last search was April 2009. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials with or without blinding. We included abstracts or unpublished data if sufficient information was available. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently extracted and pooled the data pertinent to study outcomes. We combined continuous data using standardised mean difference (SMD) with 95% confidence interval (CI) and calculated the odds ratio (OR) for dichotomous data (95% CI). 
Main results
Ten trials, involving 361 participants, satisfied the inclusion criteria. All the trials were randomised; two had a parallel design while the remainder had a cross‐over design. Although some individual studies reported a beneficial effect of pancreatic enzyme over placebo in improving pain, incidence of steatorrhoea and analgesic consumption, the results of the studies could not be pooled for these outcomes. With the use of pancreatic enzymes, we observed a non‐significant benefit for weight loss (kg) (SMD 0.06; 95% CI ‐0.23 to 0.34); a significant reduction in faecal fat (g/day) (SMD ‐1.03; 95% CI ‐1.60 to ‐0.46) and non‐significant difference in subjects' Clinical Global Impression of Disease Symptom Scale (SMD ‐0.63; 95% CI ‐1.41 to 0.14). We found no significant benefit in reducing faecal fat with any particular schedule of enzyme preparation or type of enzyme. 
