Background
Septal surgery is a well‐established procedure used to treat nasal obstruction due to deviation of the nasal septum, which is carried out under local or general anaesthesia. Local anaesthesia is used for postoperative pain control, but its effectiveness and safety are unclear. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of perioperative local anaesthesia for reducing pain in septal surgery and to evaluate the risk of associated complications. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trial Register; Central Register of Controlled Trials; Ovid MEDLINE; Ovid Embase; CINAHL; Web of Science; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 9 January 2018. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials and cluster‐randomised controlled trials involving adults or children (or both) who underwent septal surgery. We included studies comparing local anaesthesia versus no treatment/placebo. We also included studies comparing different types of local anaesthesia to each other (i.e. local injection, the addition of an anaesthetic agent to nasal packing, where used, and sphenopalatine ganglion block). 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. The primary outcome was postoperative pain intensity at 12, 24 and 48 hours measured by visual analogue scale (VAS) or another pain outcome tool including numerical or verbal rating scales. Secondary outcomes were requirement for additional analgesia, duration of hospitalisation and adverse effects (postoperative bleeding and postoperative vomiting). We used GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence for each outcome; this is indicated in italics. 
Main results
We included seven randomised controlled trials involving 493 participants. In all studies the participants were adults undergoing septoplasty. These studies were heterogeneous and the quality of the body of evidence ranged from low to very low. Few of the studies provided reliable data for the primary outcome in this review. 
