Background
Phototherapy is the mainstay of treatment of neonatal hyperbilirubinaemia. Periodic change in position of the neonate under phototherapy (from supine to prone or lateral positions) may improve the efficiency of phototherapy by hastening the access of phototherapy light to bilirubin deposited in different parts of the skin and subcutaneous tissue. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of periodic change of body position during phototherapy as compared to no prescribed change in body position, on serum total bilirubin level and duration of treatment in neonates with unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia during the first 28 days of life. 
Secondary objectives of the review included evaluation of the efficacy of periodic change of body position on the need for or number of exchange transfusions, incidence of bilirubin‐induced neurological damage (BIND), side effects of phototherapy, and sudden infant death syndrome (SIDS). 
Search methods
We used the standard search strategy of Cochrane Neonatal to run comprehensive searches in the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL; 2021, Issue 3) in the Cochrane Library and Ovid MEDLINE and Epub Ahead of Print, In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Daily and Versions on 5 March 2021. We also searched clinical trials databases and the reference lists of included studies and relevant reviews for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs. 
Selection criteria
We included RCTs and quasi‐RCTs if they enrolled neonates (term and preterm) of either gender with unconjugated hyperbilirubinaemia requiring phototherapy and compared periodic change of the body position of the infant under phototherapy with no prescribed change in body position. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data, consulting with a third review author in the case of disagreement. We used standard Cochrane methodological procedures, including assessing the risk of bias of included studies. We used the GRADE approach to assess the certainty of evidence. Primary outcomes were the duration of phototherapy and rate of fall of serum bilirubin at 24 hours. Secondary outcomes included the need for exchange transfusion, number of exchange transfusions, incidence of BIND, and SIDS. 
Main results
We included five studies (343 neonates) with an overall high risk of bias in the review. The body position under phototherapy was changed every two hours or every two‐and‐a‐half hours in two studies each, and every three hours in one study. Three of the five studies included healthy term neonates, whilst the other two studies also included preterm neonates (≥ 33 weeks' gestation); however, separate data about review outcomes in preterm neonates were not available. 
