Background
Anaemia is a common problem experienced by critically‐ill people. Treatment with erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents (ESAs) has been used as a pharmacologic strategy when the blunted response of endogenous erythropoietin has been reported in critically‐ill people. The use of ESAs becomes more important where adverse clinical outcomes of transfusing blood products is a limitation. However, this indication for ESAs is not licensed by regulatory authorities and is called off‐label use. Recent studies concern the harm of ESAs in a critical care setting. 
Objectives
To focus on harms in assessing the effects of erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents (ESAs), alone or in combination, compared with placebo, no treatment or a different active treatment regimen when administered off‐label to critically‐ill people. 
Search methods
We conducted a systematic search of the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO via OvidSP, CINAHL, all evidence‐based medicine (EBM) reviews including IPA and SCI‐Expanded, Conference Proceedings Citation Index‐ Science, BIOSIS Previews and TOXLINE up to February 2017. We also searched trials registries, checked reference lists of relevant studies and tracked their citations by using SciVerse Scopus. 
Selection criteria
We considered randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and controlled observational studies, which compared scheduled systemic administration of ESAs versus other effective interventions, placebo or no treatment in critically‐ill people. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened and evaluated the eligibility of retrieved records, extracted data and assessed the risks of bias and quality of the included studies. We resolved differences in opinion by consensus or by involving a third review author. We assessed the evidence using GRADE and created a 'Summary of findings' table. We used fixed‐effect or random‐effects models, depending on the heterogeneity between studies. We fitted three‐level hierarchical Bayesian models to calculate overall treatment effect estimates. 
