Background
Allogeneic haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is an established treatment for many malignant and non‐malignant haematological disorders. Graft‐versus‐host disease (GVHD), a condition frequently occurring after HSCT, is the result of host tissues being attacked by donor immune cells. One strategy for the prevention of GVHD is the administration of anti‐thymocyte globulins (ATG), a set of polyclonal antibodies directed against a variety of immune cell epitopes, leading to immunosuppression and immunomodulation. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of ATG used for the prevention of graft‐versus‐host disease (GVHD) in patients undergoing allogeneic HSCT with regard to overall survival, incidence and severity of acute and chronic GVHD, incidence of relapse, incidence of infectious complications, non‐relapse mortality, early mortality within 100 days of transplantation, progression‐free survival, quality of life and adverse events. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 3), MEDLINE (January 1950 to February 2012), trials registries and conference proceedings. The search was conducted in October 2010 and was updated in July 2011 and February 2012. We did not apply any language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) investigating the impact of ATG on GVHD prophylaxis in adults suffering from haematological diseases and undergoing allogeneic HSCT. Treatment arms had to differ only in the addition of ATG to the standard GVHD prophylaxis regimen. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors screened abstracts, extracted data and analysed the data independently. We contacted study authors for additional information. 
Main results
We included in the meta‐analysis six RCTs which met the pre‐defined selection criteria, involving a total of 568 participants. Quality of data reporting was heterogeneous among these studies with a lack of detailed information in the early studies. 
