Background
Advance community distribution of misoprostol for preventing or treating postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) has become an attractive strategy to expand uterotonic coverage to places where conventional uterotonic use is not feasible. However, the value and safety of this strategy remain contentious. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of the strategy of advance misoprostol distribution to pregnant women for the prevention or treatment of PPH in non‐facility births. 
Search methods
For this update, we searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Trial Register, ClinicalTrials.gov, the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (19 December 2019), and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised, cluster‐randomised or quasi‐randomised controlled trials of advance misoprostol distribution to pregnant women compared with usual (or standard) care for the prevention or treatment of PPH in non‐facility births. We excluded studies without any form of random design and those that were available in abstract form only. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias in included studies. Two review authors independently assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
Two studies conducted in rural Uganda met the inclusion criteria for this review. One was a stepped‐wedge cluster‐randomised trial (involving 2466 women) which assessed the effectiveness and safety of misoprostol distribution to pregnant women compared with standard care for PPH prevention during non‐facility births. The other study (involving 748 women) was a pilot individually randomised placebo‐controlled trial which assessed the logistics and feasibility of community antenatal distribution of misoprostol, as well as the effectiveness and safety of self‐administration of misoprostol for PPH prevention. Only 271 (11%) of women in the cluster‐randomised trial and 299 (40%) of the women in the individually randomised trial had non‐facility births. Data from the two studies could not be meta‐analysed as the data available from the stepped‐wedge trial were not adjusted for the study design. Therefore, the analysed effects of advance misoprostol distribution on PPH prevention largely reflect the findings of the placebo‐controlled trial. Neither of the included studies addressed advance misoprostol distribution for the treatment of PPH. 
