Background
Factors contributing to subjective fatigue in people with idiopathic Parkinson’s disease (PD) are not well known. This makes it difficult to manage fatigue effectively in PD. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions, compared to an inactive control intervention, on subjective fatigue in people with PD. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library); MEDLINE (via PubMed); Ovid EMBASE; EBSCO CINAHL; Ovid PsycINFO; PEDro; and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform Search Portal up to April 2015. References of included studies and identified review articles were screened for additional studies. There were no restrictions based on language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that report on subjective fatigue in people with PD. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, data collection and risk of bias assessments. 
Main results
Eleven studies were eligible for this systematic review, with a total of 1817 people. Three studies included only people who experienced clinically relevant fatigue (Fatigue Severity Scale score ≥ 4 out of 7 or Multidimensional Fatigue Inventory total score > 48 out of 100), whereas all other studies did not select participants on the basis of experienced fatigue. Nine studies investigated the effects of medication (i.e. levodopa‐carbidopa, memantine, rasagiline, caffeine, methylphenidate, modafinil or doxepin) on subjective fatigue. All studies were placebo controlled. There was insufficient evidence to determine the effect of doxepin on the impact of fatigue on activities in daily life (ADL) or fatigue severity (one study, N = 12, standardised mean difference (SMD) = ‐1.50, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐2.84 to ‐0.15; low quality evidence). We found high quality evidence that rasagiline reduced or slowed down the progression of physical aspects of fatigue (one study, N = 1176, SMD = ‐0.27, 95% CI ‐0.39 to ‐0.16, I2 = 0%). None of the other pharmacological interventions affected subjective fatigue in PD. With regard to adverse effects, only levodopa‐carbidopa showed an increase for the risk of nausea (one study, N = 361, risk ratio (RR) = 1.85, 95% CI 1.05 to 3.27; high quality evidence). Two studies investigated the effect of exercise on fatigue compared with usual care. We found low quality evidence for the effect of exercise on reducing the impact of fatigue on ADL or fatigue severity (two studies, N = 57, SMD = ‐0.45, 95% CI ‐1.21 to 0.32, I2 = 44%). 
