Background
The hallmark of severe hemophilia (A or B) is recurrent bleeding into joints and soft tissues with progressive joint damage, despite on‐demand treatment. Prophylaxis has long been used, but not universally adopted, because of medical, psychosocial, and cost controversies. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness of clotting factor concentrate prophylaxis in managing previously‐treated individuals with hemophilia A or B. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group's Coagulopathies Trials Register, compiled from electronic database searches and handsearching of journals and conference abstract books. In addition, we searched MEDLINE and Embase and online trial registries. 
Most recent search of Group's Coagulopathies Trials Register: 24 February 2021.
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs evaluating people with hemophilia A or hemophilia B, who were previously treated with clotting factor concentrates to manage their hemophilia. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently reviewed trials for eligibility, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. The authors used the GRADE criteria to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
Ten trials (including 608 participants) were eligible for inclusion. Eight of the trials (477 participants) had arms comparing two or more prophylactic regimens to one another and four of the trials (n = 258) compared prophylaxis to on‐demand treatment (two trials had multiple arms and were included in both comparisons). 
Comparison of two or more prophylactic regimens 
For trials comparing one prophylaxis regimen to another, given the heterogeneity of the data, none of the data were pooled for this comparison. Considering the individual trials, three trials reported the primary outcome of joint bleeding, and none showed a dfference between dosing regimens (low‐certainty evidence). For the secondary outcome of total bleeding events, prophylaxis with a twice‐weekly regimen of FIX likely results in reduced total bleeds compared to a once‐a‐week regimen of the same dose, mean difference (MD) 11.2 (5.81 to 16.59) (one trial, 10 participants, low‐certainty evidence). 
