Background
School‐based sexual and reproductive health programmes are widely accepted as an approach to reducing high‐risk sexual behaviour among adolescents. Many studies and systematic reviews have concentrated on measuring effects on knowledge or self‐reported behaviour rather than biological outcomes, such as pregnancy or prevalence of sexually transmitted infections (STIs). 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of school‐based sexual and reproductive health programmes on sexually transmitted infections (such as HIV, herpes simplex virus, and syphilis), and pregnancy among adolescents. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, and the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) for published peer‐reviewed journal articles; and ClinicalTrials.gov and the World Health Organization's (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform for prospective trials; AIDS Educaton and Global Information System (AEGIS) and National Library of Medicine (NLM) gateway for conference presentations; and the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC), UNAIDS, the WHO and the National Health Service (NHS) centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD) websites from 1990 to 7 April 2016. We handsearched the reference lists of all relevant papers. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs), both individually randomized and cluster‐randomized, that evaluated school‐based programmes aimed at improving the sexual and reproductive health of adolescents. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion, evaluated risk of bias, and extracted data. When appropriate, we obtained summary measures of treatment effect through a random‐effects meta‐analysis and we reported them using risk ratios (RR) with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included eight cluster‐RCTs that enrolled 55,157 participants. Five trials were conducted in sub‐Saharan Africa (Malawi, South Africa, Tanzania, Zimbabwe, and Kenya), one in Latin America (Chile), and two in Europe (England and Scotland). 
Sexual and reproductive health educational programmes 
Six trials evaluated school‐based educational interventions.
In these trials, the educational programmes evaluated had no demonstrable effect on the prevalence of HIV (RR 1.03, 95% CI 0.80 to 1.32, three trials; 14,163 participants; low certainty evidence), or other STIs (herpes simplex virus prevalence: RR 1.04, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.15; three trials, 17,445 participants; moderate certainty evidence; syphilis prevalence: RR 0.81, 95% CI 0.47 to 1.39; one trial, 6977 participants; low certainty evidence). There was also no apparent effect on the number of young women who were pregnant at the end of the trial (RR 0.99, 95% CI 0.84 to 1.16; three trials, 8280 participants; moderate certainty evidence). 
