Background
Increased intracranial pressure has been shown to be strongly associated with poor neurological outcomes and mortality for patients with acute traumatic brain injury. Currently, most efforts to treat these injuries focus on controlling the intracranial pressure. Hypertonic saline is a hyperosmolar therapy that is used in traumatic brain injury to reduce intracranial pressure. The effectiveness of hypertonic saline compared with other intracranial pressure‐lowering agents in the management of acute traumatic brain injury is still debated, both in the short and the long term. 
Objectives
To assess the comparative efficacy and safety of hypertonic saline versus other intracranial pressure‐lowering agents in the management of acute traumatic brain injury. 
Search methods
We searched Cochrane Injuries' Specialised Register, CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase Classic+Embase, ISI Web of Science: Science Citation Index and Conference Proceedings Citation Index‐Science, as well as trials registers, on 11 December 2019. We supplemented these searches with searches of four major Chinese databases on 19 September 2018. We also checked bibliographies, and contacted trial authors to identify additional trials. 
Selection criteria
We sought to identify all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of hypertonic saline versus other intracranial pressure‐lowering agents for people with acute traumatic brain injury of any severity. We excluded cross‐over trials as incompatible with assessing long‐term outcomes. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened search results to identify potentially eligible trials and extracted data using a standard data extraction form. Outcome measures included: mortality at end of follow‐up (all‐cause); death or disability (as measured by the Glasgow Outcome Scale (GOS)); uncontrolled intracranial pressure (defined as failure to decrease the intracranial pressure to target and/or requiring additional intervention); and adverse events e.g. rebound phenomena; pulmonary oedema; acute renal failure during treatment). 
