Background
Chest physiotherapy is widely prescribed to assist the clearance of airway secretions in people with cystic fibrosis. Oscillating devices generate intra‐ or extra‐thoracic oscillations orally or external to the chest wall. Internally they create variable resistances within the airways, generating controlled oscillating positive pressure which mobilises mucus. Extra‐thoracic oscillations are generated by forces outside the respiratory system, e.g. high frequency chest wall oscillation. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Objectives
To identify whether oscillatory devices, oral or chest wall, are effective for mucociliary clearance and whether they are equivalent or superior to other forms of airway clearance in the successful management of secretions in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and hand searches of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. Latest search of the Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register: 29 July 2019. 
In addition we searched the trials databases ClinicalTrials.gov and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform. Latest search of trials databases: 15 August 2019. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled studies and controlled clinical studies of oscillating devices compared with any other form of physiotherapy in people with cystic fibrosis. Single‐treatment interventions (therapy technique used only once in the comparison) were excluded. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors independently applied the inclusion criteria to publications, assessed the quality of the included studies and assessed the evidence using GRADE. 
Main results
The searches identified 82 studies (330 references); 39 studies (total of 1114 participants) met the inclusion criteria. Studies varied in duration from up to one week to one year; 20 of the studies were cross‐over in design. The studies also varied in type of intervention and the outcomes measured, data were not published in sufficient detail in most of these studies, so meta‐analysis was limited. Few studies were considered to have a low risk of bias in any domain. It is not possible to blind participants and clinicians to physiotherapy interventions, but 13 studies did blind the outcome assessors. The quality of the evidence across all comparisons ranged from low to very low. 
