Background
Liver transplantation is an established treatment option for end‐stage liver failure. Now that newer, more potent immunosuppressants have been developed, glucocorticosteroids may no longer be needed and their removal may prevent adverse effects. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of glucocorticosteroid avoidance (excluding intra‐operative use or treatment of acute rejection) or withdrawal versus glucocorticosteroid‐containing immunosuppression following liver transplantation. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group Controlled Trials Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, Science Citation Index Expanded and Conference Proceedings Citation Index ‐ Science, Literatura Americano e do Caribe em Ciencias da Saude (LILACS), World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform, ClinicalTrials.gov, and The Transplant Library until May 2017. 
Selection criteria
Randomised clinical trials assessing glucocorticosteroid avoidance or withdrawal versus glucocorticosteroid‐containing immunosuppression for liver transplanted people. Our inclusion criteria stated that participants should have received the same co‐interventions. We included trials that assessed complete glucocorticosteroid avoidance (excluding intra‐operative use or treatment of acute rejection) versus short‐term glucocorticosteroids, as well as trials that assessed short‐term glucocorticosteroids versus long‐term glucocorticosteroids. 
Data collection and analysis
We used RevMan to conduct meta‐analyses, calculating risk ratio (RR) for dichotomous variables and mean difference (MD) for continuous variables, both with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). We used a random‐effects model and a fixed‐effect model and reported both results where a discrepancy existed; otherwise we reported only the results from the fixed‐effect model. We assessed the risk of systematic errors using 'Risk of bias' domains. We controlled for random errors by performing Trial Sequential Analysis. We presented our results in a 'Summary of findings' table. 
