Background
Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and cervical adenitis (PFAPA) syndrome is a rare clinical syndrome of unknown cause usually identified in children. Tonsillectomy is considered a potential treatment option for this syndrome. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2010 and previously updated in 2014. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) compared with non‐surgical treatment in the management of children with PFAPA. 
Search methods
The Cochrane ENT Information Specialist searched the Cochrane ENT Trials Register; Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL 2019, Issue 4); PubMed; Ovid Embase; CINAHL; Web of Science; ClinicalTrials.gov; ICTRP and additional sources for published and unpublished trials. The date of the search was 15 October 2019. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials comparing tonsillectomy (with or without adenoidectomy) with non‐surgical treatment in children with PFAPA. 
Data collection and analysis
We used the standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. The primary outcomes were the proportion of children whose symptoms have completely resolved and complications of surgery (haemorrhage and number of days of postoperative pain). Secondary outcomes were: number of episodes of fever and the associated symptoms; severity of episodes; use of corticosteroids; absence or time off school; quality of life. We used GRADE to assess the certainty of the evidence for each outcome. 
Main results
Two trials were included with a total of 67 children randomised (65 analysed); we judged both to be at low risk of bias. 
One trial of 39 participants recruited children with PFAPA syndrome diagnosed according to rigid, standard criteria. The trial compared adenotonsillectomy to watchful waiting and followed up patients for 18 months. A smaller trial of 28 children applied less stringent criteria for diagnosing PFAPA and probably also included participants with alternative types of recurrent pharyngitis. This trial compared tonsillectomy alone to no treatment and followed up patients for six months. 
Combining the trial results suggests that patients with PFAPA likely experience less fever and less severe episodes after surgery compared to those receiving no surgery. The risk ratio (RR) for immediate resolution of symptoms after surgery that persisted until the end of follow‐up was 4.38 (95% confidence interval (CI) 0.64 to 30.11); number needed to treat to benefit (NNTB) = 2, calculated based on an estimate that 156 in 1000 untreated children have a resolution) (moderate‐certainty evidence). Both trials reported that there were no complications of surgery. However, the numbers of patients randomly allocated to surgery (19 and 14 patients respectively) were too small to detect potentially important complications such as haemorrhage. 
Surgery probably results in a large overall reduction in the average number of episodes over the total length of follow‐up (rate ratio 0.08, 95% CI 0.05 to 0.13), reducing the average frequency of PFAPA episodes from one every two months to slightly less than one every two years (moderate‐certainty evidence). Surgery also likely reduces severity, as indicated by the length of PFAPA symptoms during these episodes. One study reported that the average number of days per PFAPA episode was 1.7 days after receiving surgery, compared to 3.5 days in the control group (moderate‐certainty evidence). The evidence suggests that the proportion of patients requiring corticosteroids was also lower in the surgery group compared to those receiving no surgery (RR 0.58, 95% CI 0.37 to 0.92) (low‐certainty evidence). 
Other outcomes such as absence from school and quality of life were not measured or reported. 
Authors' conclusions
The evidence for the effectiveness of tonsillectomy in children with PFAPA syndrome is derived from two small randomised controlled trials. These trials reported significant beneficial effects of surgery compared to no surgery on immediate and complete symptom resolution (NNTB = 2) and a substantial reduction in the frequency and severity (length of episode) of any further symptoms experienced. However, the evidence is of moderate certainty (further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate) due to the relatively small sample sizes of the studies and some concerns about the applicability of the results. Therefore, the parents and carers of children with PFAPA syndrome must weigh the risks and consequences of surgery against the alternative of using medications. It is well established that children with PFAPA syndrome recover spontaneously and medication can be administered to try and reduce the severity of individual episodes. It is uncertain whether adenoidectomy combined with tonsillectomy adds any additional benefit to tonsillectomy alone. 
