Background
Crohn's disease (CD) is an inflammatory bowel disease that causes inflammation and stricture, of any part of the mucosa and the gut wall. It forms skip lesions, sparing the areas in between the affected parts of the gastrointestinal tract. Crohn's disease could have one of three complications; fistula, intestinal obstruction due to stricture, or gastrointestinal inflammation presenting as severe diarrhoea. 
Stem cell therapy (SCT) is an innovative treatment that has been recently used in CD. The exact role of SCT in CD is still unclear. Stem cells modify the immunity of the patients or act as a “reset tool” for the immune system as in the case of systemically‐injected stem cells, or regenerate the affected area of necrotic and inflammatory tissue as in the case of local injection into the lesion. Stem cells are a wide variety of cells including pluripotent stem cells or differentiated stem cells. The hazards range from rejection to symptomatic manifestations as fever or increase infection.  
Objectives
The objective of this Cochrane systematic review is to assess the effects of stem cell transplantation compared to standard of care alone or with placebo on efficacy and safety outcomes in patients with refractory CD. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), and clinical trial registries (Clinicaltrials.gov, World Health Organization‐International Clinical Trials Registry Platform WHO ICTRP) from inception to 19 March 2021, without any language, publication year, or publication status restrictions. In addition, we searched references of included studies and review articles for further references. An update of the published studies was done during the writing of the review. 
Selection criteria
We included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that assessed the effectiveness and safety of SCT in refractory CD versus standard care alone (control) or with placebo. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (SEN and SFA) independently screened the studies retrieved from the search results for inclusion, extracted data and assessed the risk of bias. Any disagreement was resolved through a consensus between the authors. We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. 
Main results
We conducted our search on 19 March 2021 and identified 639 records. We added two records by a manual search of the published reviews on the topic to a total of 641 records. The Covidence program removed 125 duplicates making a total of 516 reports. Two review authors (SEN and SFA) screened titles and abstracts and excluded 451 records with the remaining 65 for full‐text records screened independently by the two authors; only 18 studies were considered for inclusion.  
