Background
Arthroscopic reconstruction for anterior cruciate ligament rupture is a common orthopaedic procedure. One area of controversy is whether the method of double‐bundle reconstruction, which represents the 'more anatomical' approach, gives improved outcomes compared with the more traditional single‐bundle reconstruction. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of double‐bundle versus single‐bundle for anterior cruciate ligament reconstruction in adults with anterior cruciate ligament deficiency. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Bone, Joint and Muscle Trauma Group Specialised Register (to February 2012), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 2), MEDLINE (1966 to February week 3 2012) and EMBASE (1980 to 2012 Week 8). We also searched trial registers, conference proceedings, and contacted authors where necessary. 
Selection criteria
Randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled clinical trials comparing double‐bundle versus single‐bundle reconstruction for anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) rupture in adults. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected articles, assessed risk of bias and extracted data. We contacted investigators to obtain missing information. Where appropriate, results of comparable studies were pooled. 
Main results
Seventeen trials were included. These involved 1433 people, mostly young physically active adults. All included trials had methodological weaknesses and were at risk of bias, notably selection bias from inadequate or lack of allocation concealment. Data for pooling individual outcomes were available for a maximum of nine trials and 54% of participants. 
There were no statistically or clinically significant differences between double‐bundle and single‐bundle reconstruction in the subjective functional knee scores (subjective IKDC score, Tegner activity score, Lysholm score) in the intermediate (six months up to two years since surgery) or long term (two to five years from surgery). For example, the long term results for the Lysholm score (0 to 100: best score) were: mean difference (MD) 0.12, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐1.50 to 1.75; 5 trials, 263 participants). The only trial reporting on long term knee pain found no statistically significant differences between the two groups. There were no significant differences between the two groups in adverse effects and complications (e.g. infection reported by nine trials (7/285 versus 7/393; risk ratio (RR) 1.14, 95% CI 0.46 to 2.81); graft failure reported by six trials (1/169 versus 4/185; RR 0.45; 95% CI 0.07 to 2.90). 
