Background
Chlamydia trachomatis (C trachomatis) is one of the most frequent sexually transmitted infections and a source of deleterious effects on the reproductive health of men and women. Because this infection is likely asymptomatic and is associated with subfertility, ectopic pregnancy, and chronic pain, its presence needs to be confirmed. Technologies available for the diagnosis of C trachomatis infection can be classified into tests performed in a laboratory and rapid tests at the point of care (POC tests). Laboratory‐based tests include culture, nucleic acid amplification tests, enzyme immunoassays (EIA), direct fluorescent antibody, nucleic acid hybridization, and transformation tests. Rapid tests include solid‐phase EIA and solid‐phase optical immunoassay. POC tests can be performed within 30 minutes without the need for expensive or sophisticated equipment. The principal advantage of this technology is the immediate presentation of results with the subsequent possibility to start the treatment of infected patients immediately. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of rapid point‐of‐care (POC) testing for detecting urogenital C trachomatis infection in nonpregnant women and men of reproductive age, as verified with nucleic acid amplification tests (NAATs) as the reference standard. 
Search methods
In November 2019 we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase and LILACS. We also searched Web of Science, two trials registries and an abstract database. We screened reference lists of included studies for additional references. 
Selection criteria
We included diagnostic accuracy studies of symptomatic or asymptomatic nonpregnant women and men reproductive age. Included trials should have prospectively enrolled participants without previous diagnostic testing, co‐infections or complications and consecutively or through random sampling at primary or secondary care facilities. Only studies reporting that all participants received the index test and the reference standard and presenting 2 x 2 data were eligible for inclusion. We excluded diagnostic case‐control studies. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles and abstracts for relevance. Two review authors independently, and in duplicate, assessed eligibility, extracted data, and carried out quality assessment. We resolved differences through consensus or by involving a third review author. We assessed studies for methodological quality using QUADAS‐2 and used meta‐analysis to combine the results of studies using the bivariate approach to estimate the expected sensitivity and specificity values. We assessed the quality of the evidence using GRADE criteria and explored sources of heterogeneity. 
