Background
Acute hypoxaemia de novo or on a background of chronic hypoxaemia is a common reason for admission to intensive care and for provision of mechanical ventilation. Various refinements of mechanical ventilation or adjuncts are employed to improve patient outcomes. Mortality from acute respiratory distress syndrome, one of the main contributors to the need for mechanical ventilation for hypoxaemia, remains approximately 30‐40%. Ventilation in the prone position may improve lung mechanics and gas exchange and could improve outcomes. 
Objectives
The objectives of this review are to ascertain whether prone ventilation offers a mortality advantage when compared with traditional supine or semi recumbent ventilation in adult patients with severe acute respiratory failure requiring conventional invasive artificial ventilation. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL and LILACS up to May 2020 for eligible randomized controlled trials using an updated version of the search strategy from the earlier version of the review. We added a search in the Cochrane COVID 19 Register.We also searched for studies by hand‐searching reference lists and citations of relevant articles, by contacting colleagues, by hand‐searching published proceedings of relevant journals. We searched trial registers for ongoing studies in November 2020. We applied no language or publication status constraints. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) that examined the effects of prone position versus supine/semi recumbent position during conventional mechanical ventilation in adult participants with acute hypoxaemia. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. We analysed data using Review Manager software and pooled included studies to determine the risk ratio (RR) for mortality and the risk ratio or mean difference (MD) for secondary outcomes; we also performed subgroup analyses and sensitivity analyses. 
Main results
We identified nine relevant open‐label (unblinded) RCTs (12 publications), which enrolled a total of 2165 participants. All recruited participants suffered from disorders of lung function causing moderate to severe hypoxaemia and requiring mechanical ventilation, so they were fairly comparable within what is the great diversity of specific disease diagnoses in intensive care. Blinding of participants, carers, clinical trialists and other decision‐makers to treatment allocation was not possible (face‐up vs face‐down). This predisposes to bias with regards to use of co‐interventions and also initiation of with‐holding or withdrawing life‐support, a common practice in intensive care. 
