Background
In response to the spread of severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2 (SARS‐CoV‐2) and the impact of coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID‐19), governments have implemented a variety of measures to control the spread of the virus and the associated disease. Among these, have been measures to control the pandemic in primary and secondary school settings. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness of measures implemented in the school setting to safely reopen schools, or keep schools open, or both, during the COVID‐19 pandemic, with particular focus on the different types of measures implemented in school settings and the outcomes used to measure their impacts on transmission‐related outcomes, healthcare utilisation outcomes, other health outcomes as well as societal, economic, and ecological outcomes.  
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, Embase, and the Educational Resources Information Center, as well as COVID‐19‐specific databases, including the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register and the WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease (indexing preprints) on 9 December 2020. We conducted backward‐citation searches with existing reviews. 
Selection criteria
We considered experimental (i.e. randomised controlled trials; RCTs), quasi‐experimental, observational and modelling studies assessing the effects of measures implemented in the school setting to safely reopen schools, or keep schools open, or both, during the COVID‐19 pandemic. Outcome categories were (i) transmission‐related outcomes (e.g. number or proportion of cases); (ii) healthcare utilisation outcomes (e.g. number or proportion of hospitalisations); (iii) other health outcomes (e.g. physical, social and mental health); and (iv) societal, economic and ecological outcomes (e.g. costs, human resources and education). We considered studies that included any population at risk of becoming infected with SARS‐CoV‐2 and/or developing COVID‐19 disease including students, teachers, other school staff, or members of the wider community.  
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened titles, abstracts and full texts. One review author extracted data and critically appraised each study. One additional review author validated the extracted data. To critically appraise included studies, we used the ROBINS‐I tool for quasi‐experimental and observational studies, the QUADAS‐2 tool for observational screening studies, and a bespoke tool for modelling studies. We synthesised findings narratively. Three review authors made an initial assessment of the certainty of evidence with GRADE, and several review authors discussed and agreed on the ratings. 
Main results
We included 38 unique studies in the analysis, comprising 33 modelling studies, three observational studies, one quasi‐experimental and one experimental study with modelling components. 
Measures fell into four broad categories: (i) measures reducing the opportunity for contacts; (ii) measures making contacts safer; (iii) surveillance and response measures; and (iv) multicomponent measures. As comparators, we encountered the operation of schools with no measures in place, less intense measures in place, single versus multicomponent measures in place, or closure of schools. 
Across all intervention categories and all study designs, very low‐ to low‐certainty evidence ratings limit our confidence in the findings. Concerns with the quality of modelling studies related to potentially inappropriate assumptions about the model structure and input parameters, and an inadequate assessment of model uncertainty. Concerns with risk of bias in observational studies related to deviations from intended interventions or missing data. Across all categories, few studies reported on implementation or described how measures were implemented. Where we describe effects as 'positive', the direction of the point estimate of the effect favours the intervention(s); 'negative' effects do not favour the intervention.  
We found 23 modelling studies assessing measures reducing the opportunity for contacts  (i.e. alternating attendance, reduced class size). Most of these studies assessed transmission and healthcare utilisation outcomes, and all of these studies showed a reduction in transmission (e.g. a reduction in the number or proportion of cases, reproduction number) and healthcare utilisation (i.e. fewer hospitalisations) and mixed or negative effects on societal, economic and ecological outcomes (i.e. fewer number of days spent in school). 
We identified 11 modelling studies and two observational studies assessing measures making contacts safer  (i.e. mask wearing, cleaning, handwashing, ventilation). Five studies assessed the impact of combined measures to make contacts safer. They assessed transmission‐related, healthcare utilisation, other health, and societal, economic and ecological outcomes. Most of these studies showed a reduction in transmission, and a reduction in hospitalisations; however, studies showed mixed or negative effects on societal, economic and ecological outcomes (i.e. fewer number of days spent in school). 
We identified 13 modelling studies and one observational study assessing surveillance and response measures , including testing and isolation, and symptomatic screening and isolation. Twelve studies focused on mass testing and isolation measures, while two looked specifically at symptom‐based screening and isolation. Outcomes included transmission, healthcare utilisation, other health, and societal, economic and ecological outcomes. Most of these studies showed effects in favour of the intervention in terms of reductions in transmission and hospitalisations, however some showed mixed or negative effects on societal, economic and ecological outcomes (e.g. fewer number of days spent in school). 
