Background
Most disabling strokes are due to a blockage of a large artery in the brain by a blood clot. Prompt removal of the clot with intra‐arterial thrombolytic drugs or mechanical devices, or both, can restore blood flow before major brain damage has occurred, leading to improved recovery. However, these so‐called endovascular interventions can cause bleeding in the brain. This is a review of randomised controlled trials of endovascular thrombectomy or intra‐arterial thrombolysis, or both, for acute ischaemic stroke. 
Objectives
To assess whether endovascular thrombectomy or intra‐arterial interventions, or both, plus medical treatment are superior to medical treatment alone in people with acute ischaemic stroke. 
Search methods
We searched the Trials Registers of the Cochrane Stroke Group and Cochrane Vascular Group (last searched 1 September 2020), CENTRAL (the Cochrane Library, 1 September 2020), MEDLINE (May 2010 to 1 September 2020), and Embase (May 2010 to 1 September 2020). We also searched trials registers, screened reference lists, and contacted researchers. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of any endovascular intervention plus medical treatment compared with medical treatment alone in people with definite ischaemic stroke. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors (MBR and MJ) applied the inclusion criteria, extracted data, and assessed trial quality. Two review authors (MBR and HL) assessed risk of bias, and the certainty of the evidence using GRADE. We obtained both published and unpublished data if available. Our primary outcome was favourable functional outcome at the end of the scheduled follow‐up period, defined as a modified Rankin Scale score of 0 to 2. Eighteen trials (i.e. all but one included trial) reported their outcome at 90 days. Secondary outcomes were death from all causes at in the acute phase and by the end of follow‐up, symptomatic intracranial haemorrhage in the acute phase and by the end of follow‐up, neurological status at the end of follow‐up, and degree of recanalisation. 
