Background
Although antiretroviral treatment (ART) has led to a decline in morbidity and mortality of HIV‐infected patients in developed countries, it has also presented challenges. These challenges include increases in pill burden; adherence to treatment; development of resistance and treatment failure; development of drug toxicities; and increase in cost of HIV treatment and care. These issues stimulated interest in investigating the short‐term and long‐term consequences of discontinuing ART, thus providing support for research in structured treatment interruptions (STI). 
Structured treatment interruptions of antiretroviral treatment involve taking supervised breaks from ART. STI are defined as one or more planned, timing pre‐specified, cyclical interruptions in ART. STI are attempted in monitored clinical settings in eligible participants. STI have generated hopes of reducing drug toxicities, decreasing costs and total time on treatment in HIV‐positive patients. The first STI was attempted in the case of a patient in Germany, who later permanently discontinued treatment. This successful anecdotal case report led to several trials on STI worldwide. 
Objectives
The objective of this systematic review was to assess the effects of structured treatment interruptions (STI) of antiretroviral therapy (ART) in the management of chronic suppressed HIV infection, using all available high‐quality studies. 
Search methods
Nine databases covering the time period from January 1996 to March 2005 were searched. Bibliographies were scanned and experts contacted in the field to identify unpublished research and ongoing trials. Two reviewers independently extracted data, and evaluated study eligibility and quality. Disagreements were resolved in consultation with a third reviewer. Data from 33 studies were included in the review. 
Selection criteria
STI is a planned, timing pre‐specified experimental intervention. In our review, we decided to include all available intervention trials in HIV‐infected patients, with or without control groups. We reviewed evidence from 18 randomized and non‐randomized controlled trials, and 15 single arm trials. Single arm trials were included because these pilot studies made significant contribution to the early development and refutation of hypotheses in STI. 
