Background
Laparoscopic surgery has led to great clinical improvements in many fields of surgery; however, it requires the use of trocars, which may lead to complications as well as postoperative pain. The complications include intra‐abdominal vascular and visceral injury, trocar site bleeding, herniation and infection. Many of these are extremely rare, such as vascular and visceral injury, but may be life‐threatening; therefore, it is important to determine how these types of complications may be prevented. It is hypothesised that trocar‐related complications and pain may be attributable to certain types of trocars. This systematic review was designed to improve patient safety by determining which, if any, specific trocar types are less likely to result in complications and postoperative pain. 
Objectives
To analyse the rates of trocar‐related complications and postoperative pain for different trocar types used in people undergoing laparoscopy, regardless of the condition. 
Search methods
Two experienced librarians conducted a comprehensive search for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the Menstrual Disorders and Subfertility Group Specialised Register, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, CDSR and DARE (up to 26 May 2015). We checked trial registers and reference lists from trial and review articles, and approached content experts. 
Selection criteria
RCTs that compared rates of trocar‐related complications and postoperative pain for different trocar types used in people undergoing laparoscopy. The primary outcomes were major trocar‐related complications, such as mortality, conversion due to any trocar‐related adverse event, visceral injury, vascular injury and other injuries that required intensive care unit (ICU) management or a subsequent surgical, endoscopic or radiological intervention. Secondary outcomes were minor trocar‐related complications and postoperative pain. We excluded trials that studied non‐conventional laparoscopic incisions. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently conducted the study selection, risk of bias assessment and data extraction. We used GRADE to assess the overall quality of the evidence. We performed sensitivity analyses and investigation of heterogeneity, where possible. 
Main results
We included seven RCTs (654 participants). One RCT studied four different trocar types, while the remaining six RCTs studied two different types. The following trocar types were examined: radially expanding versus cutting (six studies; 604 participants), conical blunt‐tipped versus cutting (two studies; 72 participants), radially expanding versus conical blunt‐tipped (one study; 28 participants) and single‐bladed versus pyramidal‐bladed (one study; 28 participants). The evidence was very low quality: limitations were insufficient power, very serious imprecision and incomplete outcome data. 
