Background
Twin pregnancies are associated with increased perinatal mortality, mainly related to prematurity, but complications during birth may contribute to perinatal loss or morbidity. The option of planned caesarean section to avoid such complications must therefore be considered. On the other hand, randomised trials of other clinical interventions in the birth process to avoid problems related to labour and birth (planned caesarean section for breech, and continuous electronic fetal heart rate monitoring), have shown an unexpected discordance between short‐term perinatal morbidity and long‐term neurological outcome. The risks of caesarean section for the mother in the current and subsequent pregnancies must also be taken into account. 
Objectives
To determine the short‐ and long‐term effects on mothers and their babies, of planned caesarean section for twin pregnancy. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (18 November 2015) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing a policy of caesarean section with planned vaginal birth for women with twin pregnancy. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed eligibility, quality and extracted data. Data were checked for accuracy. For important outcomes the quality of the evidence was assessed using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included two trials comparing planned caesarean section versus planned vaginal birth for twin pregnancies. 
Most of the data included in the review were from a multicentre trial where 2804 women were randomised in 106 centres in 25 countries. All centres had facilities to perform emergency caesarean section and had anaesthetic, obstetrical, and nursing staff available in the hospital at the time of planned vaginal delivery. In the second trial carried out in Israel, 60 women were randomised. We judged the risk of bias to be low for all categories except performance (high) and outcome assessment bias (unclear). 
