Background
Due to medical advancements, many people living with HIV infection in developed countries are living longer (Palella 1998). HIV infection can now present as a chronic illness with an uncertain natural disease history. The changing course of HIV infection has lead to a potential increase in the prevalence and impact of disability in people living with HIV infection. Exercise is one key management strategy used by health care professionals to address impairments (problems with body function or structure as a significant deviation or loss such as pain or weakness), activity limitations (difficulties an individual may have in executing activities such as inability to walk) and participation restrictions (problems an individual may experience in life situations such as inability to work) in this population (World Health Organization 2001). Exercise may also be used to address unwanted changes in weight and body composition in people living with HIV infection. 
Aerobic exercise has been associated with improvements in strength, cardiovascular function, and psychological status in general populations (Bouchard 1993). Results of a systematic review suggested that aerobic exercise interventions appeared to be safe and may lead to improvements in cardiopulmonary fitness for adults living with HIV/AIDS (Nixon 2002). But what are the effects of progressive resistive exercise (PRE) for adults living with HIV infection? 
A better understanding of the effectiveness and safety of progressive resistive exercise will enable people living with HIV and their health care workers to practice effective and appropriate exercise prescription, thus contributing to improved overall outcomes for adults living with HIV infection. 
Objectives
To examine the safety and effectiveness of progressive resistive exercise interventions on weight, body composition, strength, immunological/virological, cardiopulmonary and psychological parameters in adults living with HIV infection. 
Search methods
To identify studies to be included in this review, we searched the following databases: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, COCHRANE, SCIENCE CITATION INDEX, PSYCHINFO, SOCIOLOGICAL ABSTRACTS, SSCI, ERIC, DAI and HEALTHSTAR. We also reviewed both published and unpublished abstracts and proceedings from major international and national HIV/AIDS conferences such as the Interscience Conference on Antimicrobial Agents and Chemotherapy (ICAAC), the Conference on Retroviruses and Opportunistic Infections (CROI), the Infectious Diseases Society of America Conference (IDSA), and the International AIDS Conference (IAC). Reference lists from pertinent articles and books were reviewed, as well as Collaborative Review Group databases. Targeted journals were also hand searched for relevant articles. No language restriction was applied. The search strategy covered literature from 1980‐August 2003. 
Selection criteria
We included studies that were randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing progressive resistive exercise interventions with no progressive resistive exercise or another exercise or treatment modality, performed at least three times per week, and lasting at least four weeks among adults (18 years of age or older) living with HIV/AIDS. 
Data collection and analysis
Data collection forms were used by reviewers to abstract data pertaining to study design, participants, interventions, outcomes and methodological quality from the studies that met inclusion criteria. Whenever possible, meta‐analyses were conducted on outcomes using RevMan 4.2.2 computer software. 
