Background
Short‐stay units are hospital units that provide short‐term care for selected patients. Studies have indicated that short‐stay units might reduce admission rates, time of hospital stays, hospital readmissions and expenditure without compromising the quality of care. Short‐stay units are often defined by a target patient category, a target function, and a target time frame. Hypothetically, short‐stay units could be established as part of any department, but this review focuses on short‐stay units that provide care for participants with internal medicine diseases and conditions. 
Objectives
To assess beneficial and harmful effects of short‐stay unit hospitalisation compared with usual care in people with internal medicine diseases and conditions. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, three other databases and two trials registers up to 13 December 2017 together with reference checking, citation searching and contact with study authors to identify additional studies. We also searched several grey literature sources and performed a forward citation search for included studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised trials and cluster‐randomised trials, comparing hospitalisation in a short‐stay unit with usual care (hospitalisation in a traditional hospital ward or other services). We defined a short‐stay unit to be a hospital ward where the targeted length of stay in hospital for patients was five days or less. We included both multipurpose and specialised short‐stay units. Participants were adults admitted to hospital with an internal medicine disease or condition. We excluded surgical, obstetric, psychiatric, gynaecological, and ambulatory participants. Trials were included irrespective of publication status, date, and language. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias of each included trial. We measured intervention effect sizes by meta‐analyses for two primary outcomes, mortality and serious adverse events, and one secondary outcome, hospital readmission. We narratively reported the following important outcomes: quality of life, activities of daily living, non‐serious adverse events, and costs. We used risk ratio differences of 15% for mortality and of 20% for serious adverse events for minimal relevant clinical consideration. We rated the certainty of the evidence and the strength of recommendations of the outcomes using the GRADE approach. 
