Background
The treatment of people with clinically significant postoperative pancreatic leaks is different from those without clinically significant pancreatic leaks. It is important to know the diagnostic accuracy of drain fluid amylase as a triage test for the detection of clinically significant pancreatic leaks, so that an informed decision can be made as to whether the patient with a suspected pancreatic leak needs further investigations and treatment. There is currently no systematic review of the diagnostic test accuracy of drain fluid amylase for the diagnosis of clinically relevant pancreatic leak. 
Objectives
To determine the diagnostic accuracy of amylase in drain fluid at 48 hours or more for the diagnosis of pancreatic leak in people who had undergone pancreatic resection. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, the Science Citation Index Expanded, and the National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment (NIHR HTA) websites up to 20 February 2017. We searched the references of the included studies to identify additional studies. We did not restrict studies based on language or publication status, or whether data were collected prospectively or retrospectively. We also performed a 'related search' and 'citing reference' search in MEDLINE and Embase. 
Selection criteria
We included all studies that evaluated the diagnostic test accuracy of amylase in the drain fluid at 48 hours or more for the diagnosis of pancreatic leak in people who had undergone pancreatic resection excluding total pancreatectomy. We planned to exclude case‐control studies because these studies are prone to bias, but did not find any. At least two authors independently searched and screened the references produced by the search to identify relevant studies. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted data from the included studies. The included studies reported drain fluid amylase on different postoperative days and measured at different cut‐off levels, so it was not possible to perform a meta‐analysis using the bivariate model as planned. We have reported the sensitivity, specificity, post‐test probability of a positive and negative drain fluid amylase along with 95% confidence interval (CI) on each of the different postoperative days and measured at different cut‐off levels. 
