Background
Disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) is an acquired syndrome characterized by systemic intravascular activation of coagulation, leading to deposition of fibrin in the bloodstream. It may occur in patients with acute and chronic leukemia and is particularly associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia (a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia). 
Objectives
To assess the clinical benefits and harms of any pharmacological intervention for treating DIC in patients with acute or chronic leukemia. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (the Cochrane Library 2015, Issue 05), MEDLINE (1946 to 7 May 2015), LILACS (1982 to 7 May 2015) and African Index Medicus (7 May 2015). There was no language restrictions. We sought additional randomized controlled trials (RCTs) from the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and the reference lists of primary studies identified. 
Selection criteria
RCTs assessing the clinical benefits and harms of interventions for treating DIC in patients with acute and chronic leukemia. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed trial selection, 'Risk of bias' assessment and data extraction. Primary outcomes were overall mortality, in‐hospital mortality from any cause (15‐day and 30‐day) and adverse events. 
Main results
In this Cochrane Review update we did not include any new RCT compared with the first review version. Accordingly, four RCTs (388 participants) met the inclusion criteria. These trials evaluated the human activated protein C, recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin, tranexamic acid and dermatan sulphate. Included trials reported data on mortality and bleeding. The studies were conducted in Japan, Italy and the Netherlands. We classified the included trials as: 1) including patients with or without leukemia which did not report data for the leukemia subgroup (366 participants); and 2) only including patients with leukemia (22 participants). Overall, the risk of bias of the included trials was high, since the trial authors did not provide a detailed description about trial design and execution. 
According to the GRADE recommendations, we judged the overall quality of the body of evidence for all prefixed outcomes as 'very low', due to methodological limitations and very small sample size. 
One trial, including 10 participants with leukemia and comparing dermatan sulphate with heparin, reported no deaths during trial treatment. 
In terms of bleeding data, we were unable to pool results from two studies that were only conducted with leukemia patients due to the inconsistency in the measurement and reporting of this outcome. One trial, including 12 participants with leukemia, found very low quality evidence that tranexamic acid can reduce the cumulative hemorrhagic score in participants compared with those assigned to placebo (P = 0.0015, very low quality evidence). On the contrary, there is no evidence that dermatan sulphate compared with placebo reduces new events of hemorrhagic diathesis (1/5 (20%) versus 2/5 (40%); RR 0.50; 95% CI 0.06 to 3.91; P = 0.51, very low quality evidence). 
