Background
Serum monoclonal anti‐myelin‐associated glycoprotein (anti‐MAG) antibodies may be pathogenic in some people with immunoglobulin M (IgM) paraprotein and demyelinating neuropathy. Immunotherapies aimed at reducing the level of these antibodies might be expected to be beneficial. This is an update of a review first published in 2003 and previously updated in 2006 and 2012. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of immunotherapy for IgM anti‐MAG paraprotein‐associated demyelinating peripheral neuropathy. 
Search methods
On 1 February 2016 we searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Specialised Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, and Embase for randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We also checked trials registers and bibliographies, and contacted authors and experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐RCTs involving participants of any age treated with any type of immunotherapy for anti‐MAG antibody‐associated demyelinating peripheral neuropathy with monoclonal gammopathy of undetermined significance and of any severity. 
Our primary outcome measures were numbers of participants improved in disability assessed with either or both of the Neuropathy Impairment Scale (NIS) or the modified Rankin Scale (mRS) at six months after randomisation. Secondary outcome measures were: mean improvement in disability, assessed with either the NIS or the mRS, 12 months after randomisation; change in impairment as measured by improvement in the 10‐metre walk time, change in a validated linear disability measure such as the Rasch‐built Overall Disability Scale (R‐ODS) at six and 12 months after randomisation, change in subjective clinical scores and electrophysiological parameters at six and 12 months after randomisation; change in serum IgM paraprotein concentration or anti‐MAG antibody titre at six months after randomisation; and adverse effects of treatments. 
Data collection and analysis
We followed standard methodological procedures expected by Cochrane.
Main results
We identified eight eligible trials (236 participants), which tested intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), interferon alfa‐2a, plasma exchange, cyclophosphamide and steroids, and rituximab. Two trials of IVIg (22 and 11 participants, including 20 with antibodies against MAG), had comparable interventions and outcomes, but both were short‐term trials. We also included two trials of rituximab with comparable interventions and outcomes. 
There were very few clinical or statistically significant benefits of the treatments used on the outcomes predefined for this review, but not all the predefined outcomes were used in every included trial and more responsive outcomes are being developed. A well‐performed trial of IVIg, which was at low risk of bias, showed a statistical benefit in terms of improvement in mRS at two weeks and 10‐metre walk time at four weeks, but these short‐term outcomes are of questionable clinical significance. Cyclophosphamide failed to show any benefit in the single trial's primary outcome, and showed a barely significant benefit in the primary outcome specified here, but some toxic adverse events were identified. 
Two trials of rituximab (80 participants) have been published, one of which (26 participants) was at high risk of bias. In the meta‐analysis, although the data are of low quality, rituximab is beneficial in improving disability scales (Inflammatory Neuropathy Cause and Treatment (INCAT) improved at eight to 12 months (risk ratio (RR) 3.51, 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.30 to 9.45; 73 participants)) and significantly more participants improve in the global impression of change score (RR 1.86, 95% CI 1.27 to 2.71; 70 participants). Other measures did not improve significantly, but wide CIs do not preclude some effect. Reported adverse effects of rituximab were few, and mostly minor. 
