Background
Teachers and school staff should be competent in managing asthma in schools. Demonstrated low levels of asthma knowledge mean that staff may not know how best to protect a child with asthma in their care, or may fail to take appropriate action in the event of a serious attack. Education about asthma could help to improve this knowledge and lead to better asthma outcomes for children. 
Objectives
To assess the effectiveness and safety of asthma education programmes for school staff, and to identify content and attributes underpinning them. 
Search methods
We conducted the most recent searches on 29 November 2016.
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials comparing an intervention to educate school staff about asthma versus a control group. We included studies reported as full text, those published as abstract only and unpublished data. 
Data collection and analysis
At least two review authors screened the searches, extracted outcome data and intervention characteristics from included studies and assessed risk of bias. Primary outcomes for the quantitative synthesis were emergency department (ED) or hospital visits, mortality and asthma control; we graded the main results and presented evidence in a 'Summary of findings' table. We planned a qualitative synthesis of intervention characteristics, but study authors were unable to provide the necessary information. 
We analysed dichotomous data as odds ratios, and continuous data as mean differences or standardised mean differences, all with a random‐effects model. We assessed clinical, methodological and statistical heterogeneity when performing meta‐analyses, and we narratively described skewed data. 
Main results
Five cluster‐RCTs of 111 schools met the review eligibility criteria. Investigators measured outcomes in participating staff and often in children or parents, most often at between 1 and 12 months. 
All interventions were educational programmes but duration, content and delivery varied; some involved elements of training for pupils or primary care providers. We noted risk of selection, performance, detection and attrition biases, although to a differing extent across studies and outcomes. 
