Background
Psoriasis is an immune‐mediated disease with either skin or joints manifestations, or both, and it has a major impact on quality of life. Although there is currently no cure for psoriasis, various treatment strategies allow sustained control of disease signs and symptoms. The relative benefit of these treatments remains unclear due to the limited number of trials comparing them directly head‐to‐head, which is why we chose to conduct a network meta‐analysis. 
Objectives
To compare the efficacy and safety of non‐biological systemic agents, small molecules, and biologics for people with moderate‐to‐severe psoriasis using a network meta‐analysis, and to provide a ranking of these treatments according to their efficacy and safety. 
Search methods
For this update of the living systematic review, we updated our searches of the following databases monthly to October 2021: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, and Embase. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of systemic treatments in adults over 18 years with moderate‐to‐severe plaque psoriasis, at any stage of treatment, compared to placebo or another active agent. The primary outcomes were: proportion of participants who achieved clear or almost clear skin, that is, at least Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI) 90; proportion of participants with serious adverse events (SAEs) at induction phase (8 to 24 weeks after randomisation). 
Data collection and analysis
We conducted duplicate study selection, data extraction, risk of bias assessment and analyses. We synthesised data using pairwise and network meta‐analysis (NMA) to compare treatments and rank them according to effectiveness (PASI 90 score) and acceptability (inverse of SAEs). 
We assessed the certainty of NMA evidence for the two primary outcomes and all comparisons using CINeMA, as very low, low, moderate, or high. We contacted study authors when data were unclear or missing. 
We used the surface under the cumulative ranking curve (SUCRA) to infer treatment hierarchy, from 0% (worst for effectiveness or safety) to 100% (best for effectiveness or safety). 
Main results
This update includes an additional 19 studies, taking the total number of included studies to 167, and randomised participants to 58,912, 67.2% men, mainly recruited from hospitals. Average age was 44.5 years, mean PASI score at baseline was 20.4 (range: 9.5 to 39). Most studies were placebo‐controlled (57%). We assessed a total of 20 treatments. Most (140) trials were multicentric (two to 231 centres). One‐third of the studies (57/167) had high risk of bias; 23 unclear risk, and most (87) low risk. Most studies (127/167) declared funding by a pharmaceutical company, and 24 studies did not report a funding source. 
Network meta‐analysis at class level showed that all interventions (non‐biological systemic agents, small molecules, and biological treatments) showed a higher proportion of patients reaching PASI 90 than placebo. Anti‐IL17 treatment showed a higher proportion of patients reaching PASI 90 compared to all the interventions, except anti‐IL23. Biologic treatments anti‐IL17, anti‐IL12/23, anti‐IL23 and anti‐TNF alpha showed a higher proportion of patients reaching PASI 90 than the non‐biological systemic agents. 
For reaching PASI 90, the most effective drugs when compared to placebo were (SUCRA rank order, all high‐certainty evidence): infliximab (risk ratio (RR) 50.19, 95% CI 20.92 to 120.45), bimekizumab (RR 30.27, 95% CI 25.45 to 36.01), ixekizumab (RR 30.19, 95% CI 25.38 to 35.93), risankizumab (RR 28.75, 95% CI 24.03 to 34.39). Clinical effectiveness of these drugs was similar when compared against each other. Bimekizumab, ixekizumab and risankizumab showed a higher proportion of patients reaching PASI 90 than other anti‐IL17 drugs (secukinumab and brodalumab) and guselkumab. Infliximab, anti‐IL17 drugs (bimekizumab, ixekizumab, secukinumab and brodalumab) and anti‐IL23 drugs (risankizumab and guselkumab) except tildrakizumab showed a higher proportion of patients reaching PASI 90 than ustekinumab and three anti‐TNF alpha agents (adalimumab, certolizumab and etanercept). Ustekinumab was superior to certolizumab; adalimumab and ustekinumab were superior to etanercept. No significant difference was shown between apremilast and two non‐biological drugs: ciclosporin and methotrexate. 
We found no significant difference between any of the interventions and the placebo for the risk of SAEs. The risk of SAEs was significantly lower for participants on methotrexate compared with most of the interventions. Nevertheless, the SAE analyses were based on a very low number of events with low‐ to moderate‐certainty for all the comparisons (except methotrexate versus placebo, which was high‐certainty). The findings therefore have to be viewed with caution. 
For other efficacy outcomes (PASI 75 and Physician Global Assessment (PGA) 0/1), the results were similar to the results for PASI 90. Information on quality of life was often poorly reported and was absent for several of the interventions. 
