Background
Sudden cardiac arrest (SCA) is a common health problem associated with high levels of mortality. Cardiac arrest is caused by three groups of dysrhythmias: ventricular fibrillation (VF) or pulseless ventricular tachycardia (VT), pulseless electric activity (PEA) and asystole. The most common dysrhythmia found in out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is VF. During VF or VT, cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) provides perfusion and oxygenation to the tissues, whilst defibrillation restores a viable cardiac rhythm. Early successful defibrillation is known to improve outcomes in VF/VT. However, it has been hypothesized that a period of CPR before defibrillation creates a more conducive physiological environment, increasing the likelihood of successful defibrillation. The order of priority of CPR versus defibrillation therefore remains in contention. As previous studies have remained inconclusive, we conducted a systematic review of available evidence in an attempt to draw conclusions on whether CPR plus delayed defibrillation or immediate defibrillation resulted in better outcomes in OHCA. 
Objectives
To examine whether an initial one and one‐half to three minutes of CPR administered by paramedics before defibrillation versus immediate defibrillation on arrival influenced survival rates, neurological outcomes or rates of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) in OHCA. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled trials (CENTRAL) (2013, Issue 6); MEDLINE (Ovid) (1948 to May 2013); EMBASE (1980 to May 2013); the Institute for Scientific Information (ISI) Web of Science (1980 to May 2013) and the China Academic Journal Network Publishing Database (China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), 1980 to May 2013). We included studies published in all languages. We also searched the Current Controlled Trials and Clinical Trials databases for ongoing trials. We screened the references lists of studies included in our review against the reference lists of relevant International Liaison Committee on Resuscitation (ILCOR) evidence worksheets. 
Selection criteria
Our participant group consisted of adults over 18 years of age presenting with OHCA who were in VF or pulseless VT at the time of emergency medical service (EMS) paramedic arrival. We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐randomized controlled trials that evaluated the effects of one and one‐half to three minutes of CPR versus defibrillation as initial therapy on survival and neurological outcomes of these participants. We excluded observational and cross‐over design studies. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted the data. We contacted study authors to ask for additional data when required. The risk ratio (RR) for each outcome was calculated and summarized in the meta‐analysis after heterogeneity was considered. We used Review Manager software for all analyses. 
Main results
We included four RCTs with a total of 3090 enrolled participants (one study used a cluster‐randomized design). Three trials were considered to have a relatively low risk of bias, and one trial was considered to have a relatively high risk. When survival to hospital discharge was compared, 38 of 320 (11.88%) participants survived to discharge in the initial CPR plus delayed defibrillation group compared with 39 of 338 participants (11.54%) in the immediate defibrillation group (RR 1.09, 95% CI 0.54 to 2.20, Chi2 = 10.78, degrees of freedom (df) = 5, P value 0.06, I2 = 54%, low‐quality evidence). 
When we compared the neurological outcome at hospital discharge (RR 1.12, 95% CI 0.65 to 1.93, low‐quality evidence), the rate of return of spontaneous circulation (ROSC) (RR 0.94, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.15,low‐quality evidence) and survival at one year (RR 0.77, 95% CI 0.24 to 2.49, low‐quality evidence), we could not rule out the superiority of either treatment. 
