Background
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) represents the most severe course of COVID‐19 (caused by the SARS‐CoV‐2 virus), usually resulting in a prolonged stay in an intensive care unit (ICU) and high mortality rates. Despite the fact that most affected individuals need invasive mechanical ventilation (IMV), evidence on specific ventilation strategies for ARDS caused by COVID‐19 is scarce. Spontaneous breathing during IMV is part of a therapeutic concept comprising light levels of sedation and the avoidance of neuromuscular blocking agents (NMBA). This approach is potentially associated with both advantages (e.g. a preserved diaphragmatic motility and an optimised ventilation‐perfusion ratio of the ventilated lung), as well as risks (e.g. a higher rate of ventilator‐induced lung injury or a worsening of pulmonary oedema due to increases in transpulmonary pressure). As a consequence, spontaneous breathing in people with COVID‐19‐ARDS who are receiving IMV is subject to an ongoing debate amongst intensivists. 
Objectives
To assess the benefits and harms of early spontaneous breathing activity in invasively ventilated people with COVID‐19 with ARDS compared to ventilation strategies that avoid spontaneous breathing. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register (which includes CENTRAL, PubMed, Embase, Clinical Trials.gov WHO ICTRP, and medRxiv) and the WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease to identify completed and ongoing studies from their inception to 2 March 2022.  
Selection criteria
Eligible study designs comprised randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that evaluated spontaneous breathing in participants with COVID‐19‐related ARDS compared to ventilation strategies that avoided spontaneous breathing (e.g. using NMBA or deep sedation levels). Additionally, we considered controlled before‐after studies, interrupted time series with comparison group, prospective cohort studies and retrospective cohort studies. For these non‐RCT studies, we considered a minimum total number of 50 participants to be compared as necessary for inclusion. Prioritised outcomes were all‐cause mortality, clinical improvement or worsening, quality of life, rate of (serious) adverse events and rate of pneumothorax. Additional outcomes were need for tracheostomy, duration of ICU length of stay and duration of hospitalisation.  
