Background
Vaccines are effective in preventing severe COVID‐19, a disease for which few treatments are available and which can lead to disability or death. Widespread vaccination against COVID‐19 may help protect those not yet able to get vaccinated. In addition, new and vaccine‐resistant mutations of SARS‐CoV‐2 may be less likely to develop if the spread of COVID‐19 is limited. Different vaccines are now widely available in many settings. However, vaccine hesitancy is a serious threat to the goal of nationwide vaccination in many countries and poses a substantial threat to population health. This scoping review maps interventions aimed at increasing COVID‐19 vaccine uptake and decreasing COVID‐19 vaccine hesitancy.  
Objectives
To scope the existing research landscape on interventions to enhance the willingness of different populations to be vaccinated against COVID‐19, increase COVID‐19 vaccine uptake, or decrease COVID‐19 vaccine hesitancy, and to map the evidence according to addressed populations and intervention categories.   
Search methods
We searched Cochrane COVID‐19 Study Register, Web of Science (Science Citation Index Expanded and Emerging Sources Citation Index), WHO COVID‐19 Global literature on coronavirus disease, PsycINFO, and CINAHL to 11 October 2021.  
Selection criteria
We included studies that assess the impact of interventions implemented to enhance the willingness of different populations to be vaccinated against COVID‐19, increase vaccine uptake, or decrease COVID‐19 vaccine hesitancy. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), non‐randomised studies of intervention (NRSIs), observational studies and case studies with more than 100 participants. Furthermore, we included systematic reviews and meta‐analyses. We did not limit the scope of the review to a specific population or to specific outcomes assessed. We excluded interventions addressing hesitancy towards vaccines for diseases other than COVID‐19. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were analysed according to a protocol uploaded to the Open Science Framework. We used an interactive scoping map to visualise the results of our scoping review. We mapped the identified interventions according to pre‐specified intervention categories, that were adapted to better fit the evidence. The intervention categories were: communication interventions, policy interventions, educational interventions, incentives (both financial and non‐financial), interventions to improve access, and multidimensional interventions. The study outcomes were also included in the mapping. Furthermore, we mapped the country in which the study was conducted, the addressed population, and whether the design was randomised‐controlled or not.  
Main results
We included 96 studies in the scoping review, 35 of which are ongoing and 61 studies with published results. We did not identify any relevant systematic reviews. For an overview, please see the interactive scoping map (https://tinyurl.com/2p9jmx24).   
