Background
Eczema is a common and chronic, relapsing, inflammatory skin disorder. It seriously impacts quality of life and economic outcomes, especially for those with moderate to severe eczema. Various treatments allow sustained control of the disease; however, their relative benefit remains unclear due to the limited number of trials directly comparing treatments. 
Objectives
To assess the comparative efficacy and safety of different types of systemic immunosuppressive treatments for moderate to severe eczema using NMA and to generate rankings of available systemic immunosuppressive treatments for eczema according to their efficacy and safety. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to August 2019: the Cochrane Skin Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, and Embase. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of systemic immunosuppressive agents for moderate to severe atopic eczema when compared against placebo or any other eligible eczema treatment. 
Data collection and analysis
We synthesised data using pair‐wise analysis and NMA to compare treatments and rank them according to their effectiveness. 
Effectiveness was assessed primarily by determining the proportion of participants who achieved at least 75% improvement in the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI75) and improvement in the Patient‐Oriented Eczema Measure (POEM). Safety was evaluated primarily by considering the proportion of participants with serious adverse events (SAEs) and infection. 
We deemed short‐term follow‐up as ≤ 16 weeks and long‐term follow‐up as > 16 weeks.
We assessed the certainty of the body of evidence from the NMA for these primary outcomes using six domains of CiNEMA grading. 
Main results
We included a total of 74 studies, with 8177 randomised participants. Approximately 55% of participants were male, with average age of 32 years (range 2 to 84 years), although age and gender were unreported for 419 and 902 participants, respectively. Most of the included trials were placebo controlled (65%), 34% were head‐to‐head studies (15% assessed the effects of different doses of the same drug), and 1% were multi‐armed studies with both an active comparator and a placebo. 
All trials included participants with moderate to severe eczema, but 62% of studies did not separate data by severity; 38% of studies assessed only severe eczema. The total duration of included trials ranged from 2 weeks to 60 months, whereas treatment duration varied from a single dose (CIM331, KPL‐716) to 60 months (methotrexate (MTX)). 
Seventy studies were available for quantitative synthesis; this review assessed 29 immunosuppressive agents from three classes of interventions. These included (1) conventional treatments, with ciclosporin assessed most commonly; (2) small molecule treatments, including phosphodiesterase (PDE)‐4 inhibitors, tyrosine kinase inhibitors, and Janus kinase (JAK) inhibitors; and (3) biological treatments, including anti‐CD31 receptors, anti‐interleukin (IL)‐22, anti‐IL‐31, anti‐IL‐13, anti‐IL‐12/23p40, anti‐OX40, anti‐TSLP, anti‐CRTH2, and anti‐immunoglobulin E (IgE) monoclonal antibodies, but most commonly dupilumab. 
Most trials (73) assessed outcomes at a short‐term duration ranging from 2 to 16 weeks, whereas 33 trials assessed long‐term outcomes, with duration ranging from 5 to 60 months. All participants were from a hospital setting. Fifty‐two studies declared a source of funding, and of these, pharmaceutical companies funded 88%. We rated 37 studies as high risk; 21, unclear risk, and 16, low risk of bias, with studies most commonly at high risk of attrition bias. 
Network meta‐analysis suggests that dupilumab ranks first for effectiveness when compared with other biological treatments. Dupilumab is more effective than placebo in achieving EASI75 (risk ratio (RR) 3.04, 95% confidence interval (CI) 2.51 to 3.69) and improvement in POEM score (mean difference 7.30, 95% CI 6.61 to 8.00) at short‐term follow‐up (high‐certainty evidence). 
Very low‐certainty evidence means we are uncertain of the effects of dupilumab when compared with placebo, in terms of the proportion of participants who achieve EASI75 (RR 2.59, 95% CI 1.87 to 3.60) at longer‐term follow‐up. 
Low‐certainty evidence indicates that tralokinumab may be more effective than placebo in achieving short‐term EASI75 (RR 2.54, 95% CI 1.21 to 5.34), but there was no evidence for tralokinumab to allow us to assess short‐term follow‐up of POEM or long‐term follow‐up of EASI75. 
We are uncertain of the effect of ustekinumab compared with placebo in achieving EASI75 (long‐term follow‐up: RR 1.17, 95% CI 0.40 to 3.45; short‐term follow‐up: RR 0.91, 95% CI 0.28 to 2.97; both very low certainty). We found no evidence on ustekinumab for the POEM outcome. 
We are uncertain whether other immunosuppressive agents that targeted our key outcomes influence the achievement of short‐term EASI75 compared with placebo due to low‐ or very low‐certainty evidence. 
Dupilumab and ustekinumab were the only immunosuppressive agents evaluated for longer‐term EASI75. Dupilumab was the only agent evaluated for improvement in POEM during short‐term follow‐up. 
Low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence indicates a lower proportion of participants with SAEs after treatment with QAW039 and dupilumab compared to placebo during short‐term follow‐up, but low‐ to very low‐certainty evidence suggests no difference in SAEs during short‐term follow‐up of other immunosuppressive agents compared to placebo. 
