Background
Preoperative carbohydrate treatments have been widely adopted as part of enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) or fast‐track surgery protocols. Although fast‐track surgery protocols have been widely investigated and have been shown to be associated with improved postoperative outcomes, some individual constituents of these protocols, including preoperative carbohydrate treatment, have not been subject to such robust analysis. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of preoperative carbohydrate treatment, compared with placebo or preoperative fasting, on postoperative recovery and insulin resistance in adult patients undergoing elective surgery. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (2014, Issue 3), MEDLINE (January 1946 to March 2014), EMBASE (January 1947 to March 2014), the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL) (January 1980 to March 2014) and Web of Science (January 1900 to March 2014) databases. We did not apply language restrictions in the literature search. We searched reference lists of relevant articles and contacted known authors in the field to identify unpublished data. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomized controlled trials of preoperative carbohydrate treatment compared with placebo or traditional preoperative fasting in adult study participants undergoing elective surgery. Treatment groups needed to receive at least 45 g of carbohydrates within four hours before surgery or anaesthesia start time. 
Data collection and analysis
Data were abstracted independently by at least two review authors, with discrepancies resolved by consensus. Data were abstracted and documented pro forma and were entered into RevMan 5.2 for analysis. Quality assessment was performed independently by two review authors according to the standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration. When available data were insufficient for quality assessment or data analysis, trial authors were contacted to request needed information. We collected trial data on complication rates and aspiration pneumonitis. 
Main results
We included 27 trials involving 1976 participants Trials were conducted in Europe, China, Brazil, Canada and New Zealand and involved patients undergoing elective abdominal surgery (18), orthopaedic surgery (4), cardiac surgery (4) and thyroidectomy (1). Twelve studies were limited to participants with an American Society of Anaesthesiologists grade of I‐II or I‐III. 
A total of 17 trials contained at least one domain judged to be at high risk of bias, and only two studies were judged to be at low risk of bias across all domains. Of greatest concern was the risk of bias associated with inadequate blinding, as most of the outcomes assessed by this review were subjective. Only six trials were judged to be at low risk of bias because of blinding. 
In 19 trials including 1351 participants, preoperative carbohydrate treatment was associated with shortened length of hospital stay compared with placebo or fasting (by 0.30 days; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.56 to 0.04; very low‐quality evidence). No significant effect on length of stay was noted when preoperative carbohydrate treatment was compared with placebo (14 trials including 867 participants; mean difference ‐0.13 days; 95% CI ‐0.38 to 0.12). Based on two trials including 86 participants, preoperative carbohydrate treatment was also associated with shortened time to passage of flatus when compared with placebo or fasting (by 0.39 days; 95% CI 0.70 to 0.07), as well as increased postoperative peripheral insulin sensitivity (three trials including 41 participants; mean increase in glucose infusion rate measured by hyperinsulinaemic euglycaemic clamp of 0.76 mg/kg/min; 95% CI 0.24 to 1.29; high‐quality evidence). 
