Background
Eating disorders represent an extremely difficult, time‐consuming and costly condition to treat. Being young, female, and dieting are some of the few identified risk factors that have been reliably linked to the development of eating disorders. There is currently limited evidence in the published literature to suggest that any particular type of program is effective in preventing eating disorders and there has been concern that some interventions have the potential to cause harm. 
Objectives
To determine if eating disorder prevention programs for children and adolescents are effective in: (1) promoting healthy eating attitudes and behaviours; (2) promoting protective psychological factors; (3) promoting satisfactory physical health; (4) having a long‐term, sustainable, and positive impact on mental and physical health; and, (5) ensuring safety in relation to possible harmful consequences on mental or physical health. 
Search methods
Relevant trials are identified through searching the Cochrane Controlled Trial Register (CCTR) and relevant biomedical and social science databases, as well as reference lists from articles identified through the search strategy and contact with experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with a major focus on eating disorder prevention programs for children and adolescents, where there is no known DSM‐IV diagnosis of an eating disorder, are eligible for inclusion in the review. Trials must include a control group and at least one objective outcome measure (e.g., BMI) or a standardised psychological measure used with the intervention and control group, pre‐ and post‐intervention. 
Data collection and analysis
A total of 1016 titles have been identified through the search to date. Twenty‐two studies were located that reported use of a randomised controlled trial methodology and were critically appraised by two independent reviewers. Twelve studies met the selection criteria outlined above. 
Main results
Combined data from two eating disorder prevention programs based on a media literacy and advocacy approach indicate a reduction in the internalisation or acceptance of societal ideals relating to appearance at a 3‐ to 6‐month follow‐up (Kusel 1999; Neumark* 2000) [SMD ‐0.28, ‐0.51 to ‐0.05, 95% CI]. There is insufficient evidence to support the effect of five programs designed to address eating attitudes and behaviours and other adolescent issues in the general community or those classified as being at high risk for eating disorder (Buddeberg* 1998; Dalle Grave 2001; Killen 1993; Santonastaso 1999; Zanetti 1999) and insufficient evidence to support the effect of two programs designed to improve self‐esteem (O'Dea 2000; Wade 2003). Data from two didactic eating disorder awareness programs could not be pooled for analysis. There is not sufficient evidence to suggest that harm resulted from any of the prevention programs included in the review. 
