Background
The treatment of multiple sclerosis has changed over the last 20 years. The advent of disease‐modifying drugs in the mid‐1990s heralded a period of rapid progress in the understanding and management of multiple sclerosis. With the support of magnetic resonance imaging early diagnosis is possible, enabling treatment initiation at the time of the first clinical attack. As most of the disease‐modifying drugs are associated with adverse events, patients and clinicians need to weigh the benefit and safety of the various early treatment options before taking informed decisions. 
Objectives
1. to estimate the benefit and safety of disease‐modifying drugs that have been evaluated in all studies (randomised or non‐randomised) for the treatment of a first clinical attack suggestive of MS compared either with placebo or no treatment; 
2. to assess the relative efficacy and safety of disease‐modifying drugs according to their benefit and safety; 
3. to estimate the benefit and safety of disease‐modifying drugs that have been evaluated in all studies (randomised or non‐randomised) for treatment started after a first attack ('early treatment') compared with treatment started after a second attack or at another later time point ('delayed treatment'). 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Multiple Sclerosis and Rare Diseases of the CNS Group Trials Register, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, LILACS, clinicaltrials.gov, the WHO trials registry, and US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) reports, and searched for unpublished studies (until December 2016). 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and observational studies that evaluated one or more drugs as monotherapy in adult participants with a first clinical attack suggestive of MS. We considered evidence on alemtuzumab, azathioprine, cladribine, daclizumab, dimethyl fumarate, fingolimod, glatiramer acetate, immunoglobulins, interferon beta‐1b, interferon beta‐1a (Rebif®, Avonex®), laquinimod, mitoxantrone, natalizumab, ocrelizumab, pegylated interferon beta‐1a, rituximab and teriflunomide. 
Data collection and analysis
Two teams of three authors each independently selected studies and extracted data. The primary outcomes were disability‐worsening, relapses, occurrence of at least one serious adverse event (AE) and withdrawing from the study or discontinuing the drug because of AEs. Time to conversion to clinically definite MS (CDMS) defined by Poser diagnostic criteria, and probability to discontinue the treatment or dropout for any reason were recorded as secondary outcomes. We synthesized study data using random‐effects meta‐analyses and performed indirect comparisons between drugs. We calculated odds ratios (OR) and hazard ratios (HR) along with relative 95% confidence intervals (CI) for all outcomes. We estimated the absolute effects only for primary outcomes. We evaluated the credibility of the evidence using the GRADE system. 
Main results
We included 10 randomised trials, eight open‐label extension studies (OLEs) and four cohort studies published between 2010 and 2016. The overall risk of bias was high and the reporting of AEs was scarce. The quality of the evidence associated with the results ranges from low to very low. 
Early treatment versus placebo during the first 24 months' follow‐up 
There was a small, non‐significant advantage of early treatment compared with placebo in disability‐worsening (6.4% fewer (13.9 fewer to 3 more) participants with disability‐worsening with interferon beta‐1a (Rebif®) or teriflunomide) and in relapses (10% fewer (20.3 fewer to 2.8 more) participants with relapses with teriflunomide). Early treatment was associated with 1.6% fewer participants with at least one serious AE (3 fewer to 0.2 more). Participants on early treatment were on average 4.6% times (0.3 fewer to 15.4 more) more likely to withdraw from the study due to AEs. This result was mostly driven by studies on interferon beta 1‐b, glatiramer acetate and cladribine that were associated with significantly more withdrawals for AEs. Early treatment decreased the hazard of conversion to CDMS (HR 0.53, 95% CI 0.47 to 0.60). 
