Background
Heart failure is the end stage of heart disease, and the prevalence and incidence of the condition is rapidly increasing. Although heart transplantation is one type of surgical treatment for people with end‐stage heart failure, donor availability is limited. Implantable ventricular assist devices (VADs) therefore offer an alternative treatment to heart transplantation. Although two studies reported the beneficial effects of exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation (CR) on functional capacity and quality of life (QOL) by performing systematic reviews and meta‐analyses, both systematic reviews included studies with limited design (e.g. non‐randomised, retrospective studies) or participants with implantable or extracorporeal VADs. 
Objectives
To determine the benefits and harms of exercise‐based CR for people with implantable VADs. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, Embase, PsycINFO, Conference Proceedings Citation Index‐Science (CPCI‐S) on Web of Science, CINAHL, and LILACS on 3 October 2017 with no limitations on date, language, or publication status. We also searched two clinical trials registers on 10 August 2017 and checked the reference lists of primary studies and review articles. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) regardless of cluster or individual randomisation, and full‐text studies, those published as abstract only, and unpublished data were eligible. However, only individually RCTs and full‐text publications were included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently extracted outcome data from the included studies. We double‐checked that data were entered correctly by comparing the data presented in the systematic review with the study reports. We had no dichotomous data to analyse and used mean difference or standardised mean difference with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) for continuous data. Furthermore, we assessed the quality of evidence as it relates to those studies that contribute data to the meta‐analyses for the prespecified outcomes, using GRADEpro software. 
