Background
People with schizophrenia often experience symptoms which fail to fully respond to antipsychotic medication. Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) has been proposed as a new treatment for people with schizophrenia, especially those who experience persistent auditory hallucinations. 
Objectives
To estimate the effects of TMS alone, compared with sham TMS or with 'standard management' and any other comparison interventions in reducing psychotic symptoms associated with schizophrenia. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trials Register (June 2006, June 2008, April 2013). This register is compiled by methodical searches of MEDLINE, EMBASE, BIOSIS, CINAHL, Dissertation abstracts, LILACS, PSYNDEX, PsycINFO, RUSSMED, and Sociofile, and is supplemented with handsearching of relevant journals and numerous conference proceedings. 
Selection criteria
We included all randomised controlled trials recruiting at least five participants and comparing TMS with sham TMS or any other treatment for people with schizophrenia. 
Data collection and analysis
We extracted data independently. For dichotomous data we calculated relative risks (RRs) and their 95% confidence intervals (CIs). For continuous data, we calculated mean differences (MD) and 95% CI. We used a fixed‐effect model. We assessed overall quality of the evidence using the GRADE approach. 
Main results
We included 41 studies with 1473 participants in the review. We found significant differences in favour of temporoparietal TMS compared to sham TMS for global state measured on the CGI scale (7 RCTs, n = 224, MD ‐0.5, 95% CI ‐0.76 to ‐0.23, very low‐quality evidence) and positive symptoms measured on the PANSS scale (5 RCTs, n = 127, MD ‐6.09, 95% CI ‐10.95 to ‐1.22, very low‐quality evidence). Participants experienced significantly more headaches in the temporoparietal TMS group (10 RCTs, n = 392, RR 2.65, 95% CI 1.56 to 4.50, very low‐quality evidence). However, no more participants left the study early from the TMS group than from the sham group (very low‐quality evidence). Cognitive state was assessed using 39 different measures, and all were equivocal (very low‐quality evidence). 
