Background
Zinc deficiency is prevalent in low‐ and middle‐income countries, and contributes to significant diarrhoea‐, pneumonia‐, and malaria‐related morbidity and mortality among young children. Zinc deficiency also impairs growth. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of zinc supplementation for preventing mortality and morbidity, and for promoting growth, in children aged six months to 12 years of age. 
Search methods
Between December 2012 and January 2013, we searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, MEDLINE In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Embase, African Index Medicus, Conference Proceedings Citation Index, Dissertation Abstracts, Global Health, IndMED, LILACS, WHOLIS, metaRegister of Controlled Trials, and WHO ICTRP. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials of preventive zinc supplementation in children aged six months to 12 years compared with no intervention, a placebo, or a waiting list control. We excluded hospitalised children and children with chronic diseases or conditions. We excluded food fortification or intake, sprinkles, and therapeutic interventions. 
Data collection and analysis
Two authors screened studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias. We contacted trial authors for missing information. 
Main results
We included 80 randomised controlled trials with 205,401 eligible participants. We did not consider that the evidence for the key analyses of morbidity and mortality outcomes were affected by risk of bias. The risk ratio (RR) for all‐cause mortality was compatible with a reduction and a small increased risk of death with zinc supplementation (RR 0.95, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.86 to 1.05, 14 studies, high‐quality evidence), and also for cause‐specific mortality due to diarrhoea (RR 0.95, 95% CI 0.69 to 1.31, four studies, moderate‐quality evidence), lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI) (RR 0.86, 95% CI 0.64 to 1.15, three studies, moderate‐quality evidence), or malaria (RR 0.90, 95% CI 0.77 to 1.06, two studies, moderate‐quality evidence). 
