Background
Regimen simplification can be defined as a change in established effective therapy to reduce pill burden and dosing frequency, to enhance tolerability, or to decrease specific food and fluid requirements. Many patients on suppressive antiretroviral therapy may be considered candidates for a simplification strategy and, among them, those who have achieved virologic suppression. Several clinical trials have evaluated the efficacy of triple nucleoside combination as a simplification therapy in patients who achieved virologic suppression 
Objectives
The aim of this review is to combine randomised, controlled trials to examine whether in patients with undetectable viraemia on a Protease inhibitor (PI) based regimen simplification treatment with abacavir (ABC)‐based triple‐nucleoside combinations has similar rates of efficacy and tolerability compared with a PI regimen or simplification with a NNRTIs (efavirenz‐EFV‐ or nevirapine‐NVP) containing regimen. Studies were included if they had at least two of the three interventions, including one 3NRTI arm. 
Search methods
Electronic databases and conference proceedings were searched (1996‐2012) with relevant search terms without limits to language. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) only are included in this review. Patients population is represented by HIV‐infected adult patients treated with a PI‐containing regimen (PI or boosted PI),  with undetectable viral load. Patients on a PI‐containing regimen had three possibilities: continue the PI regimen or switch to a simplification maintenance regimen, including switch to a NNRTI (EFV or NVP) containing regimen, or switch to a triple‐NRTI regimen (ABC‐zidovudine‐lamivudine) 
Data collection and analysis
The primary outcomes were: proportion of patients discontinuing or switching antiretroviral therapy due to virologic failure or to adverse events; death (all cause) and AIDS defining illness; occurrence of myocardial infarction and cardiovascular disease. Secondary outcomes  were: proportion of patients maintaining an undetectable viral load (e.g. HIV‐RNA <50 or <400 copies/mm3); change in mean CD4+ cell count; occurrence of lipodystrophy. We applied Cochrane Collaboration tools to assess each individual study for risk for bias. 
