Background
Encapsulation of a filtering bleb following trabeculectomy may lead to elevation of intraocular pressure, prompting further medical or surgical intervention. It has been suggested that needling of an encapsulated bleb may be effective in re‐establishing drainage and lowering intraocular pressure. 
Objectives
The objective of this review was to assess the effects of needling encapsulated blebs on intraocular pressure. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Group Trials Register) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 1), MEDLINE (January 1950 to February 2012), EMBASE (January 1980 to February 2012), Latin American and Caribbean Literature on Health Sciences (LILACS) (January 1982 to February 2012), the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled‐trials.com), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic searches for trials. The electronic databases were last searched on 14 February 2012. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised and quasi‐randomised in which bleb needling was compared with any form of antiglaucoma medication in people with encapsulated trabeculectomy blebs. The primary outcome was mean intraocular pressure measured in millimetres of mercury at day one, one week, one month and at last available follow‐up. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trial quality and extracted data. Study authors were contacted for additional information. 
Main results
One trial, which randomised 25 eyes to either needling or medical treatment, met the inclusion criteria. At one day post‐treatment, mean intraocular pressure was lower in the needling group (16.28 mmHg, standard deviation 5.9) than the medical group (19.45 mmHg, standard deviation 3.75). The difference was not statistically significant. At all other follow‐up points, mean intraocular pressure was consistently higher in the needling group than the medical group, although the differences were not statistically significant. However, only one needled bleb remained successful at the end of follow‐up compared to 10 out of the 11 blebs managed conservatively. This difference was statistically highly significant. 
