Background
Pressure ulcers (PUs) are injuries to the skin and underlying tissues that occur most commonly over bony prominences, such as the hips and heels as a result of pressure and shear forces. PUs cause pain, discomfort, longer hospital stays, and decreased quality of life. They are also very costly to treat and consume substantial parts of healthcare budgets. PUs are largely preventable, and education targeted at patients and their carers is considered important. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of patient and/or lay carer education on preventing pressure ulceration in at‐risk people, in any care setting. 
Search methods
In June 2019 we searched the Cochrane Wounds Specialised Register; the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL); Ovid MEDLINE (including In‐Process & Other Non‐Indexed Citations); Ovid Embase; Ovid PsycINFO and EBSCO CINAHL Plus. We also searched clinical trials registries for ongoing and unpublished studies.  There were no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication or study setting. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that recruited people of any age at risk of pressure ulceration, and RCTs that recruited people who informally care for someone at risk of pressure ulceration. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently performed study selection, data extraction, 'Risk of bias' assessment, and GRADE assessment of the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We included 10 studies with 11 publications (2261 participants analysed). Seven targeted their intervention at people at risk of ulceration and measured outcomes on these at risk people; two targeted those at risk and their family carers and measured outcomes on the at risk people cared for by their families; and one targeted lay carers only and measured outcomes on the at risk people they cared for. There were two main types of interventions: the provision of information on prevention of pressure ulcers, and the use of different types of education programmes. 
Provision of information on the prevention of pressure ulcers 
Three studies (237 participants) reported data for this comparison: two provided information directly to those at risk and their carers, and the third provided information to lay carers. As data could not be pooled we present individual study data. The evidence for primary outcomes is of very low certainty (downgraded twice for study limitations and twice for imprecision). 
We are uncertain whether the combined use of a self‐instruction manual and one‐to‐one patient training and counselling versus a self‐instruction manual alone reduces the proportion of at risk people developing a new PU (risk ratio (RR) 0.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.14 to 1.18), or whether carer self‐instruction and one‐to‐one counselling versus self‐instruction alone reduces the proportion of at risk people developing a new PU (RR 2.05, 95% CI 0.19 to 21.70). 
We are uncertain whether the use of home‐based training, compared with routine ward‐based training, reduces the proportion of at risk people developing a new PU (RR 0.53, 95% CI 0.27 to 1.02). 
One study explored the secondary outcome patient knowledge of pressure ulcer prevention; however, as usable data were not provided, we were unable to carry out further analysis, and no effect estimate could be calculated. 
Educational programmes on the prevention of pressure ulcers 
Seven studies (2024 participants analysed) provided data for this comparison. In all studies the intervention was aimed at people at risk of ulceration. 
Risk of pressure ulceration 
One secondary report of an included study reported the primary outcome as time to PU development or occurrence and three studies and one secondary report of an included study reported this as the proportion of at risk people developing a new PU. One study reported the secondary outcome grade of PU and five studies and one secondary report of an included study reported on patient knowledge. 
There is low certainty evidence of there being no clear difference in the proportion of participants developing a new PU between use of a pressure ulcer prevention care bundle (PUPCB) and standard care: HR 0.58, 95% CI 0.25 to 1.33 (downgraded twice for imprecision). 
One secondary report of an included study explored whether individualised PU education and monthly structured telephone follow‐up changes the mean time to PU occurrence. Not all participants in this study developed a pressure ulcer, therefore the mean time to pressure ulcer occurrence could not be calculated from the data. 
We are uncertain whether the following three interventions reduce the proportion of at risk people developing a new PU as we assessed the certainty of evidence as very low: individualised PU education and monthly structured telephone follow‐up (RR 0.55, 95% CI 0.23 to 1.30), education delivery (RR 3.57, 95% CI 0.78 to 16.38), (downgraded twice for risk of bias and twice for imprecision); and computerised feedback and one‐to‐one consultations (no clear data provided), (downgraded twice for risk of bias and once for indirectness). 
Grade of pressure ulcer 
There is low certainty evidence that use of a PU prevention care bundle may make no difference to the severity of new PU development when compared with standard care. 
