Background
Stents are placed in the femoropopliteal arteries for numerous reasons, such as atherosclerotic disease, the need for dissection, and perforation of the arteries, and can become stenosed with the passage of time. When a stent develops a flow‐limiting stenosis, this process is known as "in‐stent stenosis." It is thought that in‐stent restenosis is caused by a process known as "intimal hyperplasia" rather than by the progression of atherosclerotic disease. Management of in‐stent restenosis may include performing balloon angioplasty, deploying another stent within the stenosed stent to force it open, and creating a bypass to deliver blood around the stent. The role of drug‐eluting technologies, such as drug‐eluting balloons (DEBs), in the management of in‐stent restenosis is unclear. Drug‐eluting balloons might function by coating the inside of stenosed stents with cytotoxic chemicals such as paclitaxel and by inhibiting the hyperplastic processes responsible for in‐stent restenosis. It is important to perform this systematic review to evaluate the efficacy of DEB because of the potential for increased expenses associated with DEBs over uncoated balloon angioplasty, also known as plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA). 
Objectives
To assess the safety and efficacy of DEBs compared with uncoated balloon angioplasty in people with in‐stent restenosis of the femoropopliteal arteries as assessed by criteria such as amputation‐free survival, vessel patency, target lesion revascularization, binary restenosis rate, and death. We define "in‐stent restenosis" as 50% or greater narrowing of a previously stented vessel by duplex ultrasound or angiography. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Vascular Information Specialist searched the Cochrane Vascular Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, and CINAHL databases and the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform and ClinicalTrials.gov trials registers to November 28, 2017. Review authors also undertook reference checking to identify additional studies. 
