Background
Occupational lead exposure can lead to serious health effects that range from general symptoms (depression, generalised ache, and digestive signs, such as loss of appetite, stomach ache, nausea, diarrhoea, and constipation) to chronic conditions (cerebrovascular and cardiovascular diseases, cognitive impairment, kidney disease, cancers, and infertility). Educational interventions may contribute to the prevention of lead uptake in workers exposed to lead, and it is important to assess their effectiveness. 
Objectives
To assess the effect of educational interventions for preventing lead uptake in workers exposed to lead. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE, Embase, CINAHL, and OSH UPDATE to 5 June 2020, with no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We sought randomised controlled trials (RCT), cluster‐RCTs (cRCT), interrupted time series (ITS), controlled before‐after studies (CBA) and uncontrolled before‐after studies that examined the effects of an educational intervention aimed at preventing lead exposure and poisoning in workers who worked with lead, for which effectiveness was measured by lead levels in blood and urine, blood zinc protoporphyrin levels and urine aminolevulinic acid levels. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently screened the search results, assessed studies for eligibility, and extracted data using standard Cochrane methods. We used the ROBINS‐I tool to assess the risk of bias, and GRADE methodology to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Main results
We did not find any RCT, cRCT, ITS or CBA studies that met our criteria. We included four uncontrolled before‐after studies studies, conducted between 1982 and 2004.  
Blood lead levels 
Educational interventions may reduce blood lead levels, but the evidence is very uncertain. In the short‐term after the educational intervention, blood lead levels may decrease (mean difference (MD) 9.17 µg/dL, 95% confidence interval (CI) 4.14 to 14.20; one study with high baseline blood lead level, 18 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). 
In the medium‐term, blood lead levels may decrease (MD 3.80 µg/dL, 95% CI 1.48 to 6.12; one study with high baseline blood lead level, 34 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). 
In the long‐term, blood lead levels may decrease when the baseline blood lead levels are high (MD 8.08 µg/dL; 95% CI 3.67 to 12.49; two studies, 69 participants; very low‐certainty evidence), but not when the baseline blood lead levels are low (MD 1.10 µg/dL, 95% CI ‐0.11 to 2.31; one study, 52 participants, very low‐certainty evidence). 
Urine lead levels 
In the long‐term, urinary lead levels may decrease after the educational intervention, but the evidence is very uncertain (MD 42.43 µg/L, 95% CI 29.73 to 55.13; one study, 35 participants; very low‐certainty evidence). 
