Background
Uveitis is a term used to describe a heterogeneous group of intraocular inflammatory diseases of the anterior, intermediate, and posterior uveal tract (iris, ciliary body, choroid). Uveitis is the fifth most common cause of vision loss in high‐income countries, accounting for 5% to 20% of legal blindness, with the highest incidence of disease in the working‐age population. 
Corticosteroids are the mainstay of acute treatment for all anatomical subtypes of non‐infectious uveitis and can be administered orally, topically with drops or ointments, by periocular (around the eye) or intravitreal (inside the eye) injection, or by surgical implantation. 
Objectives
To determine the efficacy and safety of steroid implants in people with chronic non‐infectious posterior uveitis, intermediate uveitis, and panuveitis. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL (which contains the Cochrane Eyes and Vision Trials Register) (Issue 10, 2015), Ovid MEDLINE, Ovid MEDLINE In‐Process and Other Non‐Indexed Citations, Ovid MEDLINE Daily, Ovid OLDMEDLINE (January 1946 to November 2015), EMBASE (January 1980 to November 2015), PubMed (1948 to November 2015), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature Database (LILACS) (1982 to November 2015), the metaRegister of Controlled Trials (mRCT) (www.controlled‐trials.com) (last searched 15 April 2013), ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov), and the World Health Organization (WHO) International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (ICTRP) (www.who.int/ictrp/search/en). We did not use any date or language restrictions in the electronic search for studies. We last searched the electronic databases on 6 November 2015. 
We also searched reference lists of included study reports, citation databases, and abstracts and clinical study presentations from professional meetings. 
Selection criteria
We included randomized controlled trials comparing either fluocinolone acetonide (FA) or dexamethasone intravitreal implants with standard‐of‐care therapy with at least six months of follow‐up after treatment. We included studies that enrolled participants of all ages who had chronic non‐infectious posterior uveitis, intermediate uveitis, or panuveitis with vision that was better than hand‐motion. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently reviewed studies for inclusion. Two review authors independently extracted data and assessed the risk of bias for each study. 
Main results
We included data from two studies (619 eyes of 401 participants) that compared FA implants with standard‐of‐care therapy. Both studies used similar standard‐of‐care therapy that included administration of prednisolone and, if needed, immunosuppressive agents. The studies included participants from Australia, France, Germany, Israel, Italy, Portugal, Saudi Arabia, Spain, Switzerland, Turkey, the United Kingdom, and the United States. We assessed both studies at high risk of performance and detection bias. 
