Background
Methadone maintenance was the first widely used opioid replacement therapy to treat heroin dependence, and it remains the best‐researched treatment for this problem. Despite the widespread use of methadone in maintenance treatment for opioid dependence in many countries, it is a controversial treatment whose effectiveness has been disputed. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effects of methadone maintenance treatment (MMT) compared with treatments that did not involve opioid replacement therapy (i.e., detoxification, offer of drug‐free rehabilitation, placebo medication, wait‐list controls) for opioid dependence. 
Search methods
We searched the following databases up to Dec 2008: the Cochrane Controlled Trials Register, EMBASE, PubMED, CINAHL, Current Contents, Psychlit, CORK [www. state.vt.su/adap/cork], Alcohol and Drug Council of Australia (ADCA) [www.adca.org.au], Australian Drug Foundation (ADF‐VIC) [www.adf.org.au], Centre for Education and Information on Drugs and Alcohol (CEIDA) [www.ceida.net.au], Australian Bibliographic Network (ABN), and Library of Congress databases, available NIDA monographs and the College on Problems of Drug Dependence Inc. proceedings, the reference lists of all identified studies and published reviews; authors of identified RCTs were asked about other published or unpublished relevant RCTs. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled clinical trials of methadone maintenance therapy compared with either placebo maintenance or other non‐pharmacological therapy for the treatment of opioid dependence. 
Data collection and analysis
Reviewers evaluated the papers separately and independently, rating methodological quality of sequence generation, concealment of allocation and bias. Data were extracted independently for meta‐analysis and double‐entered. 
Main results
Eleven studies met the criteria for inclusion in this review, all were randomised clinical trials, two were double‐blind. There were a total number of 1969 participants. The sequence generation was inadequate in one study, adequate in five studies and unclear in the remaining studies. The allocation of concealment was adequate in three studies and unclear in the remaining studies. Methadone appeared statistically significantly more effective than non‐pharmacological approaches in retaining patients in treatment and in the suppression of heroin use as measured by self report and urine/hair analysis (6 RCTs, RR = 0.66 95% CI 0.56‐0.78), but not statistically different in criminal activity (3 RCTs, RR=0.39; 95%CI: 0.12‐1.25) or mortality (4 RCTs, RR=0.48; 95%CI: 0.10‐2.39). 
Authors' conclusions
Methadone is an effective maintenance therapy intervention for the treatment of heroin dependence as it retains patients in treatment and decreases heroin use better than treatments that do not utilise opioid replacement therapy. It does not show a statistically significant superior effect on criminal activity or mortality. 
