Background
Rarer dementias include Huntington's disease (HD), cerebral autosomal dominant arteriopathy with subcortical infarcts and leukoencephalopathy (CADASIL), frontotemporal dementia (FTD), dementia in multiple sclerosis (MS) and progressive supranuclear palsy (PSP). Cholinesterase inhibitors, including donepezil, galantamine and rivastigmine, are considered to be the first‐line medicines for Alzheimer's disease and some other dementias, such as dementia in Parkinson's disease. Cholinesterase inhibitors are hypothesised to work by inhibiting the enzyme acetylcholinesterase (AChE) which breaks down the neurotransmitter acetylcholine. Cholinesterase inhibitors may also lead to clinical improvement for rarer dementias associated with neurological conditions. 
Objectives
To assess the efficacy and safety of cholinesterase inhibitors for cognitive impairment or dementia associated with neurological conditions. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Improvement Group's Specialised Register, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, CINAHL, LILACS, several trial registries and grey literature sources in August 2013. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised, double‐blind, controlled trials assessing the efficacy of treatment of rarer dementias associated with neurological conditions with currently marketed cholinesterase inhibitors. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed eligibility and quality of trials, and extracted data. We used the standard methodological procedures of the Cochrane Collaboration. 
Main results
We included eight RCTs involving 567 participants. Six studies used a simple parallel‐group design; the other two consisted of an open‐label treatment period followed by a randomised phase. All trials were well concealed for allocation and double‐blind, however the sample sizes of most trials were small. All trials used placebo as control. We performed meta‐analyses for some outcomes in patients with MS. For all other conditions, results are presented narratively. 
