Background
Scoliosis in patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) is usually progressive and is treated with surgery. However, it is unclear whether the existing evidence is sufficiently scientifically rigorous to support a recommendation for spinal surgery for most patients with DMD and scoliosis. This is an updated review, and an updated search was undertaken in which no new studies were found for inclusion. 
Objectives
To determine the effectiveness and safety of spinal surgery in patients with DMD with scoliosis. We intended to test whether spinal surgery is effective in increasing survival and improving respiratory function, quality of life, and overall functioning, and whether spinal surgery is associated with severe adverse effects. 
Search methods
On 16 June 2015 we searched the Cochrane Neuromuscular Disease Group Specialized Register, the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, and CINAHL Plus. We also searched ProQuest Dissertation and Thesis database (January 1980 to June 2015), the National Institutes of Health Clinical Trials Database (6 January 2015), and the WHO International Clinical Trials Registry Platform (17 June 2015), and checked references. We imposed no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We planned to include controlled clinical trials using random or quasi‐random allocation of treatment evaluating all forms of spinal surgery for scoliosis in patients with DMD in the review. The control interventions would have been no treatment, non‐operative treatment, or a different form of spinal surgery. 
Data collection and analysis
We used standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane Collaboration. Two review authors independently examined the search results and evaluated the study characteristics against inclusion criteria in order to decide which studies to include in the review. 
Main results
Of the 49 relevant studies we found, none met the inclusion criteria for the review because they were not clinical trials, but prospective or retrospective reviews of case series. 
