Background
Cardiogenic shock (CS) is a state of critical end‐organ hypoperfusion due to a primary cardiac disorder. For people with refractory CS despite maximal vasopressors, inotropic support and intra‐aortic balloon pump, mortality approaches 100%. Mechanical assist devices provide mechanical circulatory support (MCS) which has the ability to maintain vital organ perfusion, to unload the failing ventricle thus reduce intracardiac filling pressures which reduces pulmonary congestion, myocardial wall stress and myocardial oxygen consumption. This has been hypothesised to allow time for myocardial recovery (bridge to recovery) or allow time to come to a decision as to whether the person is a candidate for a longer‐term ventricular assist device (VAD) either as a bridge to heart transplantation or as a destination therapy with a long‐term VAD. 
Objectives
To assess whether mechanical assist devices improve survival in people with acute cardiogenic shock. 
Search methods
We searched CENTRAL, MEDLINE (Ovid), Embase (Ovid) and Web of Science Core Collection in November 2019. In addition, we searched three trials registers in August 2019. We scanned reference lists and contacted experts in the field to obtain further information. There were no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials on people with acute CS comparing mechanical assist devices with best current intensive care management, including intra‐aortic balloon pump and inotropic support. 
Data collection and analysis
We performed data collection and analysis according to the published protocol.
Primary outcomes were survival to discharge, 30 days, 1 year and secondary outcomes included, quality of life, major adverse cardiovascular events (30 days/end of follow‐up), dialysis‐dependent (30 days/end of follow‐up), length of hospital stay and length of intensive care unit stay and major adverse events. 
We used the five GRADE considerations (study limitations, consistency of effect, imprecision, indirectness, and publication bias) to assess the quality of a body of evidence as it relates to the studies which contribute data to the meta‐analyses for the prespecified outcomes 
