Background
The number of visits for antenatal (prenatal) care developed without evidence of how many visits are necessary. The content of each visit also needs evaluation. 
Objectives
To compare the effects of antenatal care programmes with reduced visits for low‐risk women with standard care. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (23 March 2015), reference lists of articles and contacted researchers in the field. 
Selection criteria
Randomised trials comparing a reduced number of antenatal visits, with or without goal‐oriented care, versus standard care. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently assessed trials for inclusion and risk of bias, extracted data and checked for accuracy. We assessed studies for risk of bias and graded the quality of the evidence. 
Main results
We included seven trials (more than 60,000 women): four in high‐income countries with individual randomisation; three in low‐ and middle‐income countries with cluster randomisation (clinics as the unit of randomisation). Most of the data included in the review came from the three large, well‐designed cluster‐randomised trials that took place in Argentina, Cuba, Saudi Arabia, Thailand and Zimbabwe. All results have been adjusted for the cluster design effect. All of the trials were at some risk of bias as blinding of women and staff was not feasible with this type of intervention. For primary outcomes, evidence was graded as being of moderate or low quality, with downgrading decisions due to risks of bias and imprecision of effects. 
The number of visits for standard care varied, with fewer visits in low‐ and middle‐ income country trials. In studies in high‐income countries, women in the reduced visits groups, on average, attended between 8.2 and 12 times. In low‐ and middle‐ income country trials, many women in the reduced visits group attended on fewer than five occasions, although in these trials the content as well as the number of visits was changed, so as to be more 'goal‐oriented'. 
Perinatal mortality was increased for those randomised to reduced visits rather than standard care, and this difference was borderline for statistical significance (risk ratio (RR) 1.14; 95% confidence interval (CI) 1.00 to 1.31; five trials, 56,431 babies; moderate‐quality evidence). In the subgroup analysis, for high‐income countries the number of deaths was small (32/5108), and there was no clear difference between the groups (RR 0.90; 95% CI 0.45 to 1.80, two trials); for low‐ and middle‐income countries perinatal mortality was significantly higher in the reduced visits group (RR 1.15; 95% CI 1.01 to 1.32, three trials). 
