Background
Obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) is a chronic anxiety disorder associated with significant morbidity, social impairment and lower quality of life. Psychological treatments are a frequently used approach for OCD. 
Objectives
To perform a systematic review of randomised trials of psychological treatments for obsessive compulsive disorder in comparison with treatment as usual. 
Search methods
We conducted an electronic search of CCDANCTR‐Studies (31/10/2006), and other databases. We searched reference lists, and contacted experts in the field. 
Selection criteria
Published and unpublished randomised trials of psychological treatments versus treatment as usual for adults with a diagnosis of OCD 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors worked independently throughout the selection of trials and data extraction. Findings were compared and disagreements were discussed with a third review author. Full data extraction, using a standardised data extraction sheet, was performed on all studies included in the review. Results were synthesised using Review Manager software. For dichotomous data, odds ratios were calculated. For continuous data, effect sizes were obtained and the standardised mean difference, with 95% confidence intervals, was calculated. Fixed and random effects models were used to pool the data. Reasons for heterogeneity in studies were explored and sensitivity analyses were performed by excluding trials of lower quality. 
Main results
Eight studies (11 study comparisons) were identified, all of which compared cognitive and/or behavioural treatments versus treatment as usual control groups. Seven studies (ten comparisons) had usable data for meta‐analyses. These studies demonstrated that patients receiving any variant of cognitive behavioural treatment exhibited significantly fewer symptoms post‐treatment than those receiving treatment as usual (SMD ‐1.24, 95% CI ‐1.61 to ‐0.87, I² test for heterogeneity 33.4%). Different types of cognitive and/or behavioural treatments showed similar differences in effect when compared with treatment as usual. The overall treatment effect appeared to be influenced by differences in baseline severity. 
