Background
Older people taking multiple medications represent a large and growing proportion of the population. Managing multiple medications can be challenging, and this is especially the case for older people, who have higher rates of comorbidity and physical and cognitive impairment than younger adults. Good medication‐taking ability and medication adherence are necessary to ensure safe and effective use of medications. 
Objectives
To evaluate the effectiveness of interventions designed to improve medication‐taking ability and/or medication adherence in older community‐dwelling adults prescribed multiple long‐term medications. 
Search methods
We searched MEDLINE, Embase, Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), PsycINFO, CINAHL Plus, and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts from inception until June 2019. We also searched grey literature, online trial registries, and reference lists of included studies. 
Selection criteria
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐RCTs, and cluster‐RCTs. Eligible studies tested interventions aimed at improving medication‐taking ability and/or medication adherence among people aged ≥ 65 years (or of mean/median age > 65 years), living in the community or being discharged from hospital back into the community, and taking four or more regular prescription medications (or with group mean/median of more than four medications). Interventions targeting carers of older people who met these criteria were also included. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently reviewed abstracts and full texts of eligible studies, extracted data, and assessed risk of bias of included studies. We conducted meta‐analyses when possible and used a random‐effects model to yield summary estimates of effect, risk ratios (RRs) for dichotomous outcomes, and mean differences (MDs) or standardised mean differences (SMDs) for continuous outcomes, along with 95% confidence intervals (CIs). Narrative synthesis was performed when meta‐analysis was not possible. We assessed overall certainty of evidence for each outcome using Grades of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). Primary outcomes were medication‐taking ability and medication adherence. Secondary outcomes included health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), emergency department (ED)/hospital admissions, and mortality. 
Main results
We identified 50 studies (14,269 participants) comprising 40 RCTs, six cluster‐RCTs, and four quasi‐RCTs. All included studies evaluated interventions versus usual care; six studies also reported a comparison between two interventions as part of a three‐arm RCT design. 
Interventions were grouped on the basis of their educational and/or behavioural components: 14 involved educational components only, 7 used behavioural strategies only, and 29 provided mixed educational and behavioural interventions. Overall, our confidence in results regarding the effectiveness of interventions was low to very low due to a high degree of heterogeneity of included studies and high or unclear risk of bias across multiple domains in most studies. 
Five studies evaluated interventions for improving medication‐taking ability, and 48 evaluated interventions for improving medication adherence (three studies evaluated both outcomes). 
No studies involved educational or behavioural interventions alone for improving medication‐taking ability. Low‐quality evidence from five studies, each using a different measure of medication‐taking ability, meant that we were unable to determine the effects of mixed interventions on medication‐taking ability. 
