Background
Pregnant women with a history of venous thromboembolism (VTE), antithrombin deficiency, or other risk factors for VTE, need heparin (unfractionated heparin (UFH) or low‐molecular weight heparin (LMWH)) prophylaxis, mainly through administering subcutaneously. Several methods of administering heparin (UFH or LMWH) subcutaneously have been introduced to prevent adverse pregnant outcomes. The effectiveness and safety of different methods administering subcutaneous heparin (UFH or LMWH) during pregnancy have not been systematically evaluated. 
Objectives
To compare the effectiveness and safety of different methods of administering subcutaneous heparin (UFH or LMWH) to pregnant women. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials Register (31 January 2013) and reference lists of retrieved studies. 
Selection criteria
All randomised controlled trials (individual and cluster) comparing the effectiveness and safety of different methods of administering subcutaneous heparin (UFH or LMWH) during pregnancy. Studies reported only as abstracts were eligible for inclusion and would have been placed in studies awaiting assessment, pending the full publication of their results. Quasi‐randomised studies and cross‐over trials were not eligible for inclusion.. 
Methods of administering subcutaneous heparin include intermittent injections versus indwelling catheters or programmable (auto) external infusion pumps, or any other devices to facilitate the subcutaneous administration of heparin (UFH or LMWH) during pregnancy. 
Data collection and analysis
If eligible trials had been identified, trial quality would have been assessed and data extracted, unblinded by review authors independently. 
Main results
No trials met the inclusion criteria for the review.
Authors' conclusions
There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of different methods of administering subcutaneous heparin (UFH or LMWH) to pregnant women. 
