Background
Beta‐blockers are commonly used in the treatment of hypertension. We do not know whether the blood pressure (BP) lowering efficacy of beta‐blockers varies across the day. This review focuses on the subclass of beta‐blockers with partial agonist activity (BBPAA). 
Objectives
To assess the degree of variation in hourly BP lowering efficacy of BBPAA over a 24‐hour period in adults with essential hypertension. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Hypertension Information Specialist searched the following databases for relevant studies up to June 2020: the Cochrane Hypertension Specialised Register; CENTRAL; 2020, Issue 5; MEDLINE Ovid; Embase Ovid; the World Health Organization International Clinical Trials Registry Platform; and ClinicalTrials.gov. We also contacted authors of relevant papers regarding further published and unpublished work. The searches had no language restrictions. 
Selection criteria
We sought to include all randomised and non‐randomised trials that assessed the hourly effect of BBPAA by ambulatory monitoring, with a minimum follow‐up of three weeks. 
Data collection and analysis
Two review authors independently selected the included trials and extracted the data. We assessed the certainty of the evidence using the GRADE approach. Outcomes included in the review were end‐point hourly systolic and diastolic blood pressure (SBP and DBP) and heart rate (HR), measured using a 24‐hour ambulatory BP monitoring (ABPM) device. 
Main results
Fourteen non‐randomised baseline controlled trials of BBPAA met our inclusion criteria, but only seven studies, involving 121 participants, reported hourly ambulatory BP data that could be included in the meta‐analysis. Beta‐blockers studied included acebutalol, pindolol and bopindolol. We judged most studies at high or unclear risk of bias for selection bias, attrition bias, and reporting bias. We judged the overall certainty of the evidence to be very low for all outcomes. 
We analysed and presented data by each hour post‐dose. Very low‐certainty evidence showed that hourly mean reduction in BP and HR visually showed an attenuation over time. Over the 24‐hour period, the magnitude of SBP lowering at each hour ranged from ‐3.68 mmHg to ‐17.74 mmHg (7 studies, 121 participants), DBP lowering at each hour ranged from ‐2.27 mmHg to ‐9.34 mmHg (7 studies, 121 participants), and HR lowering at each hour ranged from ‐0.29 beats/min to ‐10.29 beats/min (4 studies, 71 participants). When comparing between three 8‐hourly time intervals that correspond to day, evening, and night time hours, BBPAA was less effective at lowering BP and HR at night, than during the day and evening. However, because we judged that these outcomes were supported by very low‐certainty evidence, further research is likely to have an important impact on the estimate of effect and may change the conclusion. 
Authors' conclusions
There is insufficient evidence to draw general conclusions about the degree of variation in hourly BP‐lowering efficacy of BBPAA over a 24‐hour period, in adults with essential hypertension. Very low‐certainty evidence showed that BBPAA acebutalol, pindolol, and bopindolol lowered BP more during the day and evening than at night. However, the number of studies and participants included in this review was very small, further limiting the certainty of the evidence. We need further and larger trials, with accurate recording of time of drug intake, and with reporting of standard deviation of BP and HR at each hour. 
