Background
Hodgkin's disease (HD) is the most common non‐AIDS‐defining malignancy in HIV‐infected patients. Its unusually aggressive tumour behaviour includes a higher frequency of unfavourable histologic subtypes, high‐stage and extranodal involvement by the time of presentation (anal canal, stomach), and poor therapeutic outcome, in comparison with HD outside the HIV setting. The optimal therapeutic strategy is still controversial, and median overall survival is short, ranging from 12 to 18 months. Thus, there is a need to identify the efficacy and safety of different interventions for AIDS‐associated HD on overall survival and disease‐free survival in treatment‐naive adults with AIDS. 
Objectives
To assess the effects of different interventions for treating AIDS‐associated Hodgkin's disease including chemotherapy, bone marrow transplantation (BMT), and gene therapy on overall survival and disease‐free survival in treatment‐naive adults with AIDS. 
Search methods
We searched The Cochrane HIV/AIDS Group Trials Register (September 2006), which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearching of relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings. We also searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) in The Cochrane Library (Issue 3, 2006), MEDLINE (1966 to September 2006), EMBASE (1974 to September 2006) LILACS (1982 to September 2006), ISI Web of Knowledge (1993 to September 2006), and AIDSearch (1980 to December 2006). 
Date of most recent search: December 2006.
Selection criteria
We searched for published or unpublished randomised controlled trials.
Data collection and analysis
We intended to summarise data by standard Cochrane Collaboration methodologies, but no eligible randomised controlled trials were identified. 
Main results
We were unable to find any randomised controlled trials of interventions for treating AIDS‐associated HD in treatment‐naive adults with AIDS. 
Authors' conclusions
Randomised controlled trials are needed to establish the efficacy and safety of interventions for treating AIDS‐associated HD in treatment‐naive adults with AIDS. 
