Background
Arthritis remains a relatively infrequent complication of cystic fibrosis, but is a cause of significant morbidity when it does occur. Two distinct types of arthritis are described in cystic fibrosis: cystic fibrosis‐related arthropathy and hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. Management of arthritis in people with cystic fibrosis is uncertain and complex because of the underlying disease and its treatment. 
Objectives
To review the effectiveness and safety of disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs for the management of arthritis related to cystic fibrosis in adults and children. 
Search methods
We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register which comprises references identified from comprehensive electronic database handsearches of relevant journal and abstract books of conference proceedings. 
Date of most recent search: 10 July 2012.
Selection criteria
Randomised controlled trials which compared the efficacy and safety of disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs (e.g. methotrexate, gold, sulfasalazine, penicillamine, leflunomide, hydroxychloroquine and newer agents such as biologic disease modifying agents and monoclonal antibodies) with each other, with no treatment or with placebo for cystic fibrosis‐related arthropathy or hypertrophic osteoarthropathy. 
Data collection and analysis
No relevant studies were identified.
Main results
No studies were included in this review.
Authors' conclusions
Although it is generally recognised that cystic fibrosis‐related arthritis can be episodic and resolve spontaneously, treatment with analgesics and anti‐inflammatory agents may be needed. But when episodic symptoms progress to persistent disease, disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs may be needed to limit the course of the disease. It is disappointing that no randomised controlled trials to rigorously evaluate these drugs could be found. This systematic review has identified the need for a well‐designed adequately powered randomised controlled trial to assess the efficacy and safety of disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs for the management of cystic fibrosis‐related arthropathy and hypertrophic osteoarthropathy in adults and children with cystic fibrosis. However, given the infrequency of cystic fibrosis‐related arthritis and the range of symptoms and severity, randomised controlled trials may not be feasible and well‐designed non‐randomised observational studies may be more appropriate. Studies should also better define the two conditions. 
