Background
Alzheimer's disease is the most common cause of dementia in older people accounting for some 60% of cases with late‐onset cognitive deterioration. It is now thought that several neurotransmitter dysfunctions are involved from an early stage in the pathogenesis of Alzheimer's disease‐associated cognitive decline. 
The efficacy of selegiline for symptoms of Alzheimer's disease remains controversial and is reflected by its low rate of prescription and the lack of approval by several regulatory authorities in Europe and elsewhere. Reasons for this uncertainty involve the modest overall effects observed in some trials, the lack of benefit observed in several trials, the use of cross‐over designs which harbour methodological problems in a disease like dementia and the difficulty in interpreting results from trials when a variety of measurement scales are used to assess outcomes. 
Objectives
The objective of this review is to assess whether or not selegiline improves the well‐being of patients with Alzheimer's disease. 
Search methods
The Cochrane Dementia and Cognitive Impairment Group Register of Clinical Trials, was searched using the terms 'selegiline', 'l‐deprenyl', ''eldepryl" and "monamine oxidase inhibitor‐B" on 9 October 2002. This Register contains records from all major health care databases and many trials databases and is updated regularly. 
Selection criteria
All unconfounded, double‐blind, randomized controlled trials in which treatment with selegiline was administered for more than a day and compared to placebo in patients with dementia. 
Data collection and analysis
An individual patient data meta‐analysis of selegiline, Wilcock 2002 provides much of the data that are available for this review. Seven studies provided individual patient data and this was pooled with summary statistics from the published papers of the other nine studies. Where possible, intention‐to‐treat data were used but usually the meta analyses were restricted to completers' data (data on people who completed the study). 
