A study to find out if anifrolumab reduces lupus symptoms in participants with lupus.  Researchers are looking for a better way to treat lupus. Before a drug can be approved for 
patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works. 
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if anifrolumab works in a large number of 
participants with lupus. They also wanted to find out if the participants had any medical 
problems possibly related to the drug during the study.
 Lupus is a disease of the immune system. This means that the body’s natural defense 
system attacks healthy tissues. Lupus causes inflammation in the joints, in the skin 
and in other organs. Researchers think that specific proteins in the body called “type 1 
interferon” are involved in the inflammation that is caused by lupus. Anifrolumab stops the 
type 1 interferon proteins from sending signals through the body. Researchers think that 
this could reduce inflammation in patients with lupus.
 In this study, researchers wanted to find out if giving the participants anifrolumab with 
their current lupus treatment would reduce their lupus symptoms.
 The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
 • Did anifrolumab improve the participants’ lupus symptoms that were the focus of the 
study?
 • What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
. To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of men and women with moderate to severe active lupus, which was based on many different measures of lupus disease activity. They were already getting lupus treatment that did not reduce their symptoms. Patients with lupus who had other diseases that can affect the study results were not included. The participants in this study were 18 to 69 years old..  This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors or other 
study staff knew what treatment each participant received. Some studies are done this 
way because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of 
the study. When the study ended, AstraZeneca found out which treatment the participants 
took so they could create a report of the study results.
 In this study, the participants kept getting their usual lupus treatment, and also got either: 
• 300 milligrams, also called mg, of anifrolumab
 • 150 mg of anifrolumab 
• a placebo
 A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a 
placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take the 
drug are actually caused by the drug.
 Anifrolumab and the placebo were each given through a needle into a vein. This is called 
intravenous infusion, also called IV infusion. The IV infusion took at least 30 minutes.
 A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant 
received. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that 
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.  During the study, the participants visited the study site once every 4 weeks, for a total 
of 13 visits. 
At each visit, the doctors:
 • did a physical exam and checked the participants’ overall health 
• checked the participants’ skin for signs of lupus and checked their joints to see if they 
were tender or swollen
 • gave the participants anifrolumab or the placebo through IV infusion
 At some visits, the doctors did an ECG or took blood samples. Throughout the study, the doctors asked the participants to complete different questionnaires about how they were feeling.. This study helped researchers learn more about using anifrolumab in participants with lupus. Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one study. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Further clinical studies with anifrolumab are planned