Long Term Safety of Anifrolumab in Adult Subjects With Active Systemic Lupus Erythematosus. Researchers are looking for a better way to treat lupus in adults. Researchers do clinical trials to find out how treatments work and how safe they are. Lupus is a long-term disease of the immune system, which is the body’s natural defense system against things like viruses and bacteria. In people with lupus, the immune system mistakenly attacks healthy tissues of the body. This leads to symptoms such as skin rashes, tiredness, and inflammation, which causes swollen and painful joints and muscles. Lupus can also lead to more serious problems such as heart, lung, or brain damage. Researchers think that specific proteins in the body called type 1 interferons are involved in the inflammation caused by lupus. The trial treatment, anifrolumab, was designed to stop type 1 interferons from activating the immune system. Researchers think that this could reduce inflammation in people with lupus. Anifrolumab is already available in some countries as a treatment for people with lupus. In this trial, the researchers wanted to learn more about the long-term safety of anifrolumab in people with lupus.. The researchers asked for the help of males and females with lupus. The participants in this trial were 18 to 69 years old when they joined. Participants with lupus could join the trial if they had completed 1 of 2 previous clinical trials called D3461C00004 and D3461C00005. Those are known as feeder trials. Those trials looked at how well anifrolumab worked and about its safety over a short period of time in people with lupus. This trial included 42 males and 505 females in 24 countries. The participants in this trial got anifrolumab or a placebo. A placebo looks like a treatment but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who get the treatment are actually caused by the treatment. In this summary, trial treatment means anything the participants got as a part of the trial. This includes anifrolumab and the placebo. Anifrolumab is the treatment that the researchers wanted to learn more about. This was a double-blind trial. This means none of the participants, researchers, trial doctors, or other trial staff knew what treatment each participant was getting. Some trials are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of the trial. When the trial ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the participants got so they could create a report of the trial results. For participants who had gotten a placebo in the feeder trials, a computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant got in this trial. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible. This trial had 4 groups. The doses of anifrolumab were measured in milligrams, also known as mg. In Group 1, the participants had received 300 mg of anifrolumab in the feeder trials, and then continued to get 300 mg of anifrolumab in this trial. In Group 2, the participants had received 150 mg of anifrolumab in the feeder trials, and then switched to 300 mg of anifrolumab in this trial. In Group 3, the participants had received a placebo in the feeder trials, and then switched to 300 mg of anifrolumab in this trial. In Group 4, the participants had received a placebo in the feeder trials, and then continued to get the placebo in this trial.. The participants in this trial got anifrolumab or a placebo. The placebo looked like anifrolumab but did not have any anifrolumab in it. . The main question the researchers wanted to answer in this trial was: What medical problems did the participants have during this trial? The most common medical problem was the common cold, also known as nasopharyngitis. The most common serious medical problem was lupus flare ups.