An Open-Label, Multi-Centre, Study to Assess the Safety of Fixed-Dose Durvalumab + Tremelimumab Combination Therapy or Durvalumab Monotherapy in Advanced Solid Malignancies.. Researchers are looking for a better way to treat cancer of the urinary tract that has spread outside the urinary tract. Before a treatment can be approved for people to get, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is. In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about the safety of durvalumab in a large number of participants with cancer of the urinary tract that has spread. In people with cancer, the body is not able to control the growth of some cells. The extra cells can form tumors. When cancer progresses to a late stage, tumors spread to other parts of the body or grow outside the organ where they started. Normally, the immune system can help stop tumors from growing. But, in some people with cancer of the urinary tract, proteins on the tumor cells can interact with certain proteins on the immune cells. This may stop the immune cells from recognizing the tumor cells and being able to attack them. The study treatment, durvalumab, was designed to stop the tumor cells from interacting with some of these proteins.. The researchers asked for the help of men and women with cancer of the urinary tract that had spread. The participants in this study were 21 to 89 years old when they joined. Participants could take part in this study if: Xthey had a life expectancy of at least 12 weeks Xtheir cancer could not be cured by surgery Xtheir cancer had gotten worse after treatment with chemotherapy The study included 867 participants in Canada, France, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, South Korea, the United Kingdom, and the United States.. In this study, all of the participants got durvalumab. It was given slowly through a needle in a vein under the skin, also known as an “IV infusion”. This was an “open-label” study. This means the participants, researchers, study doctors, and other study staff knew what each participant was getting. The participants continued to get durvalumab for as long as the study doctors thought it was helping them or until the participants left the study. The chart below shows the treatments the researchers planned to study: 867 participants, durvalumab as an IV infusion, once every 4 weeks.. All of the participants in this study got durvalumab. Other studies with durvalumab showed that the participants in those studies had certain adverse events. The researchers wanted to learn if the participants getting durvalumab in this study also had these adverse events. These are known as “adverse events of special interest”. This study helped researchers learn more about the safety of durvalumab in participants with cancer of the urinary tract that has spread outside the urinary tract.