A study to assess the effectiveness and safety of otilimab in people with active rheumatoid arthritis who did not respond to methotrexate therapy  . Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a long-term autoimmune disease where the immune system (processes that help in fighting infections) attacks the body’s joints  e.g., hands, wrists, knees, and ankles. This leads to swelling, pain, and stiffness in the affected joints. The figure below shows the symptoms of RA. There are different types of treatments available for RA. One of these is a group of drugs called disease-modifying antirheumatic drugs or DMARDs, e.g., methotrexate (MTX). Otilimab is a type of drug that blocks the release of substances in the body which cause RA. This lowers the disease activity thus reducing joint damage and pain. Researchers in this study wanted to compare the effectiveness and safety of the study medicine, otilimab along with tofacitinib and placebo (containing no active medicine) in participants with moderate to severe RA. These participants had a history of inadequate response to MTX therapy. . A total of 1537 participants from 19 countries participated in this study. 326 Men and 1211 Women. Men and Women were included in the study if they were 18 years of age or lder. Were diagnosed with RA after 16 years of age. Had RA for 6 months or more before study start with at least 6 tender and 6 swollen joints. Had a high sensitivity c-reactive protein measurement (a feature that indicated inflammation) of 3 milligram per liter (mg/L) or more before study start. Did not respond well to MTX. Men and women were exlcuded from the study if they had: any active infections or were taking medicines for infection. Weak immunity or were diagnosed with HIV (human immunodeficiency virus) infection. Any liver, kidney, lung, heart, or autoimmune disorder. Undergone any major surgery 2 months before the study start.. This was a double-blind study, where both, the study doctors and the participants were unaware about the medicines given. The study was conducted in two parts - Period 1 (Day 1 to Month 3) and Period 2 (Month 3 to Year 1). The participants were placed in 6 groups by chance (randomisation). Participants across all the groups received oral or injectable MTX, at the same dose that they were taking before the study.  At Month 3, the 3 placebo groups were switched to active therapy. Participants in groups 1, 2, and 3 continued in the study with no change in their treatment, until year 1..  Capsules were given by mouth and injections were given under the skin (subcutaneous, SC). SC Otilimab 150 mg, SC Otilimab 90 mg and SC placebo. Placebo injection was 0.9% sodium chloride solution (salt solution). Capsule placebo was a lactose-containing capsule. . 