A study to learn about the effect of otilimab in participants with severe COVID-19 related lung disease. . Coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID-19) is a rapidly spreading disease caused by a virus. It can cause lung inflammation, which leads to difficulty in breathing, resulting in very low levels of oxygen in the blood. This condition is called COVID-19 related lung disease and can be life-threatening. Patients may need a breathing machine called a ventilator to help them breathe. Otilimab is a medicine also being tested to treat inflammation in patients with other diseases like rheumatoid arthritis. It is thought to be able to reduce lung inflammation caused by COVID-19 related lung disease.  Patients who were hospitalised with severe COVID-19 related lung disease (such as pneumonia) and were receiving standard-of-care (SoC) treatment took part in this study. The SoC treatment includes the normal hospital care and usual treatments that are given to patients with the same condition. Researchers wanted to see if otilimab would improve these participants’ recovery and chances of survival when added to SoC treatment, compared with SoC treatment alone. Researchers also assessed the safety of this medicine. . Studies have a list of requirements for participants who can enrol (inclusion criteria) and those who can’t (exclusion criteria). For this study, the main inclusion and exclusion criteria are listed below. Men and women were included in the study if they: Were 18 to 79 years old. Were hospitalised with COVID-19 related pneumonia. Required high oxygen supply through an oxygen mask, nasal tubes, breathing tube, or ventilator. Men and women were excluded from the study if they had:  Less than 48 hours left to live regardless of getting any treatment, in the opinion of the study doctor. Multiple organ failure in the opinion of the study doctor. A requirement for life support using a heart-lung machine (blood pumped from the body to a machine that adds oxygen to it and removes carbon dioxide) or kidney dialysis (a treatment that removes waste from the body and filters blood when kidneys do not work well). Taken or had planned to start taking medicines that suppress the immune system or medicines similar to otilimab within three months of Day 1. Any other untreated infection or disease(s), abnormal blood test results, or taken any treatment(s) that the study doctor thought would affect the results of the study. Overall, 793 participants received at least one dose of the study medicine. The study included 566 men (71%) and 227 women (29%). The average age was 60 years. The youngest participant was 23 years old and the oldest participant was 80 years old. . . Participants who decided to take part in the study continued to receive SoC. In addition, participants received one of the following two study medicines: • Otilimab   (or) • Placebo  Placebo, also known as a dummy medicine, looked like otilimab but did not contain actual medicine. A computer decided which study medicine the participants would receive by chance, as if by tossing a coin. Neither participants nor study doctors knew who was receiving which study medicine. This is to make sure the results of each treatment group were handled in the same way. This is called a double-blind study.   Participants received the study medicine directly through a vein on Day 1. Study doctors monitored participants daily in the hospital until they were discharged. After being discharged, the study doctors regularly contacted the participants to check on how they were doing for up to two months after they were first admitted to the hospital. . 