A study to compare the effects of feladilimab or placebo when given along with the combination of pembrolizumab and platinum chemotherapy in participants with advanced head and neck cancer. Head and neck cancer is a type of cancer that starts in the head and neck region. When the cancer spreads to the sites away from the head and neck region, it is considered metastatic. Cancer that returns or worsens after being successfully treated is considered recurrent. Cancers that are recurrent or metastatic are called advanced cancers. Immune cells have a type of protein on their surface called programmed cell death protein 1 (PD-1). Cancer cells make a protein called programmed cell death ligand protein (PD-L1) that can attach to the PD-1 protein and turn off the immune cell. Cancer medicines can attach to the PD-1 protein and block the PD-L1 protein. This blocking activity may help the immune system attack and destroy the cancer cells. Some head and neck cancer cells have the PD-L1 on their surface. These are called PD-L1 positive cancers.  People with PD-L1 positive cancers may have different amounts of the protein on their surface. The effectiveness of the PD-1 blocking medicine can depend on the amount of PDL1 protein on the cancer cells.  Participants with advanced head and neck cancer with or without PD-L1 protein on their cancer cells took part in the study. Researchers wanted to know if feladilimab along with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy improved survival and delayed the growth or return of cancer. Researchers also studied the safety of these medicines.. Studies have a list of requirements for participants who can enter (inclusion criteria) and those who cannot enter (exclusion criteria). For this study, the main inclusion and exclusion criteria are listed below. Men and women were included in the study if they: • Were 18 years or older. • Had advanced head and neck cancer. • Had their main cancer around the mouth and throat. • Were expected to live for at least three months. • Had the PD-L1 status of their main cancer available. Men and women were excluded from the study if they had: • A high risk of bleeding from their cancer. • Any major surgery within four weeks before starting the study. • Any other serious medical problems apart from cancer.  Overall, 107 participants were assigned to one of the two study group by chance (randomisation) before the decision was taken to stop study medicines. The average age was 60 years. The youngest participant was 19 years old and the eldest participant was 82 years old.. This was a double-blind study which means neither participants nor study doctors knew who was receiving which study medicine combination. At the start of the study, participants were randomised into one of the study groups as shown in the figure below. Participants were divided in a way that each treatment group had similar numbers of participants with PD-L1 positive and negative cancers. This allowed a similar mix of participants within each treatment group. . In this study, participants received feladilimab or placebo in combination with pembrolizumab and chemotherapy. 1. Feladilimab: It is a medicine that boosts the immune system’s reaction and helps immune cells attack cancer cells. This may slow down the growth or return of the cancer. It is not yet approved to treat any disease. 2. Placebo: has no active study medicine. Pembrolizumab is a medicine that helps the body to use its own immune system to treat cancer. It is approved in several countries to treat many types of cancer. Chemotherapy in this study consisted of cisplatin or carboplatin plus 5-fluorouracil. These medicines are used to treat cancer. . 