A study to find out how benralizumab works in participants with asthma.  Researchers are trying to find out how benralizumab works in the body. Before 
a treatment can be approved for people to take for different medical problems, 
researchers do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
 In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if benralizumab works in a 
number of participants with allergic asthma. They also wanted to find out if the 
participants had any medical problems during the study.
 Allergic asthma is triggered by having an allergic reaction in the lungs. The 
specific trigger that an individual person is allergic to is called an allergen. 
Allergic asthma happens when the allergen gets in the lungs and the cells in 
the immune system try to attack it which leads to inflammation. One of these 
types of cells involved in inflammation is called an eosinophil. People with 
allergic asthma may have too many eosinophils in their lungs, which can lead 
to inflammation and tightening of the airways during an asthma attack. The 
eosinophils can also cause the lung mucus to increase and become thick and 
heavy.  The inflammation, tightened airways, and mucus all make it hard to 
breathe and result in asthma symptoms.to find out how it works and how safe it is.  Researchers think that getting benralizumab regularly can help get rid of the extra 
eosinophils and other immune cells. This could help control asthma symptoms.
 In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if benralizumab affected the 
allergic response in the participants’ lungs and if it affected their breathing. The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
 > Did benralizumab affect the participants’ allergic responses in their lungs?
 > Did benralizumab affect the amount of air the participants could breathe out 
after an allergic trigger?
 > What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
 The answers to these questions are important to understand how benralizumab 
helps improve the health of people with asthma.. The researchers asked for the help of men and women with mild allergic asthma, also called allergen-induced asthma. The participants in this study were 19 to 64 years old when they joined. The participants all had asthma symptoms due to environmental allergies. These are allergies caused by triggers that are inhaled, such as plant pollens and pet dandruff or fur. The study included 46 participants in Canada..  This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, 
researchers, study doctors, or other study staff knew what treatment each 
participant was getting. Some studies are done this way because knowing 
what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of the study. 
When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the 
participants got so they could create a report of the study results. A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant 
got. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that 
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
 The participants got benralizumab or the placebo as an injection into the skin. 
They got 1 dose every 4 weeks for a total of 3 doses. The dose of benralizumab 
was 30 milligrams, also known as mg. . In this study, the participants got either benralizumab or a placebo. A placebo 
looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a 
placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who 
get the drug are actually caused by the drug.
. This study helped researchers learn more about how benralizumab works in the 
body of participants with asthma.
 Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work 
best and are safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one 
study. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Further clinical studies to understand how benralizumab works in people with 
asthma are ongoing