An early bactericidal activity, safety and tolerability of GSK3036656 in subjects with drug-sensitive pulmonary tuberculosis. Tuberculosis (TB) is a serious infection caused by bacteria that can affect the lungs and other important parts of the body. When these bacteria affect the lungs, it is called pulmonary TB.  Although the current treatments are very successful in treating pulmonary TB, treatment of drug-sensitive pulmonary TB takes at least 6 months to complete. Drug-sensitive means that the medicine is able to kill the bacteria. As this treatment has side effects, most people do not complete the treatment. As a result, the bacteria can become resistant meaning that the medicines cannot kill the bacteria anymore. This condition is becoming more common and can be very difficult to treat. Therefore, new medicines are needed to shorten the time it takes to treat pulmonary TB. Participants with drug-sensitive pulmonary TB took part in this study. Researchers wanted to assess how well GSK3036656 works to decrease the TB-causing bacteria in these participants. Researchers also assessed the safety of this medicine. . Studies have a list of requirements for participants who can enter (inclusion criteria) and those who cannot enter (exclusion criteria). For this study, the main inclusion and exclusion criteria are listed below. Men were included in the study if they: Were between the age of 18 and 65. Had a chest X-ray showing confirmed TB. Had at least one sputum sample positive for TB-causing bacteria.  Were able to produce enough volume of sputum. Men were excluded from the study if they had: Any medical problem other than TB. Poor health condition where the treatment cannot be delayed. Received any other medicines that killed the TB-causing bacteria, within two weeks before entering the study. . This was an open-label study, which means the participants and study doctors knew which treatment they received. As shown in the study design figure, participants either received GSK3036656 or Rifafour. Participants were assigned to each group by chance, this is called randomisation. Three times as many participants were included in the GSK3036656 group compared with the Rifafour group. Participants were further divided into groups based on the dose of GSK3036656 they were given. Some medicines have to be given at a higher dose on the first day of treatment in order to make sure there is enough amount of medicine in the blood. This is called a loading dose. After which, a lower dose of medicine is given to maintain the levels of the medicine in the blood. This is called a maintenance dose.  Participants in the GSK3036656 groups took GSK3036656 capsules as a loading dose on Day 1 and as a maintenance dose from Day 2 to 14. Participants in the Rifafour group took Rifafour tablets from Day 1 to Day 14. Sputum from participants was taken daily from the start of the study (baseline) till Day 14 and sent to the laboratory. Sputum is a thick phlegm produced by lungs during an infection. The sputum was added to culture media in the laboratory to allow the bacteria multiply. Bacteria grow in a group of cells to form colonies. The number of bacteria that can give rise to colonies is calculated by counting the number of colony forming units (CFUs) in sputum.  . GSK3036656 and Rifafour are the two medicines that were studied. GSK3036656 is a medicine being studied for the treatment of tuberculosis. It is not yet approved for use in people. Rifafour is an approved medicine that is given as a standard treatment to people newly diagnosed with tuberculosis.. 