Can a dementia medicine (memantine) help people with autism spectrum disorder?
BackgroundAutism spectrum disorder (autism) is a condition that begins in childhood. Core symptoms include persistent difficulties with social communication (e.g. difficulties with back‐and‐forth conversations, communication without words, and in developing and maintaining relationships), and repetitive and restricted interests and behaviours (e.g. repetitive mannerisms, restricted interests and behaviours, resistance to change and sensory sensitivities). Around 1% to 2% of children have autism. Autistic people often have other conditions such as attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD), anxiety, language impairments (e.g. difficulties understanding and using grammar) and intellectual disability. Autism can have negative impacts on quality of life, school achievement and social relationships. Memantine is a medication traditionally used to treat dementia, but some studies suggest that it may decrease core autistic symptoms. If memantine is being used to change the core symptoms of autism, it is important to assess whether it works and is safe. This review combines the research evidence on the use of memantine in autism. 
Review questionDoes memantine change the core symptoms of autism and related behaviours? 
Search dateThe evidence is current to 14 February 2022. 
Study characteristicsWe found three studies with 204 people that had evaluated the effectiveness of memantine in autism. All studies were randomised controlled trials, meaning participants were randomly allocated to receive either the treatment or a dummy pill (placebo). This is the best design for assessing the effectiveness of treatments. All three studies included children diagnosed with autism spectrum disorder, with an average age of 9.40 years. We found no studies in adults. The children received memantine (for 12 weeks in two studies and for 24 weeks in one study), and their behaviour was assessed before treatment and immediately after treatment. 
Study funding sourcesOne study was sponsored and funded by a laboratory that makes memantine (Forest). The study sponsor helped to design the study, collect information, analyse and interpret the information, and take the decision to publish the results. The authors of the other two smaller studies said they did not receive any funding; though in one of these studies, Forest Pharmaceuticals provided the medicine for free. 
Key resultsIt is unclear if memantine makes any difference to the core symptoms of autism. Additionally, there may be no difference between memantine and placebo in the occurrence of side effects, language ability, memory, adaptive behaviour or the autism‐related behaviours of hyperactivity and irritability. 
Limitations of the evidenceWe are not confident about the evidence for core symptoms of autism because it comes from only three small studies; because the studies included different types of people and delivered the medicine in different ways; and because the studies did not always provide information about everything we were interested in. Additionally, we have little confidence in the evidence on side effects and language because it comes from only two small studies; and we have little confidence in the evidence on intelligence, memory, adaptive behaviour, hyperactivity and irritability, because it comes from only one small study. 
