Newer generation antidepressants for depression in children and adolescents: a network meta‐analysis 
How well do newer formulations of antidepressants work for children and adolescents with clinical depression? 
Children and adolescents (6 to 18 years) with depression (also called ‘major depressive disorder’) experience a range of negative impacts in all areas of their lives and have an increased risk of suicide, suicidal thinking and suicide attempts. Antidepressants have been shown to reduce symptoms of depression, but can also increase the risk of suicide‐related outcomes. 
Who will be interested in this research? 
The research in this Cochrane Review will interest:
‐ people who decide policy, and influence decisions about the prescription of antidepressant medicines to children and adolescents; 
‐ people who prescribe these medicines to children and adolescents;
‐ children and adolescents with depression; and
‐ those who support and care for them (including their parents and caregivers and clinicians who provide treatment). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out how well newer formulations (called ‘new generation’) antidepressants work to improve depression in children and adolescents aged 6 to 18 years. New generation antidepressants are those that have been developed recently. They are sometimes referred to as ‘second‐‘ and ‘third‐generation’ antidepressants; they do not include older formulations (tricyclic antidepressants or monoamine oxidase inhibitors). 
We wanted to know how these antidepressants affect:
‐ symptoms of depression;
‐ recovery: no longer meeting diagnostic criteria for major depressive disorder;
‐ response or remission: scores on a scale indicating an important reduction in depression or no longer experiencing depression; 
‐ ability to function in daily life;
‐ suicide‐related outcomes; and
‐ whether they cause any unwanted effects in children and adolescents.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested new generation antidepressants on children or adolescents (or both) who had been diagnosed with a major depressive disorder. We identified 26 such studies. We then assessed the trustworthiness of those studies, and synthesized the findings across the studies. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
Most newer antidepressants probably reduce depression symptoms better than a placebo (a 'dummy' treatment that does not contain any medicine but looks identical to the medicine being tested). However, the reduction is small and may not be experienced as important by children and adolescents, their parents and caregivers, or clinicians. When different medications are compared against each other, there may be only small and unimportant differences between most of them for the reduction of symptoms. 
Our findings reflect what happens on average to individuals, but some individuals may experience a greater response. This might lead to recommendations being made for the use of antidepressants for some individuals in some circumstances. Our findings suggest that sertraline, escitalopram, duloxetine and fluoxetine can be used if medication is being considered. 
The impact of medication on depression symptoms should be closely monitored by those prescribing the medication, especially as suicide‐related thinking and behaviour may be increased in those taking these medications. Close monitoring of suicide‐related behaviours is vital in those treated with new generation antidepressants. 
What should happen next? 
The studies that provided this evidence largely excluded children and adolescents who: 
‐ were already thinking about suicide and wanting to take their own lives (i.e. had suicidal ideation); 
‐ were self‐harming;
‐ had other mental health conditions; and
‐ had psychosocial difficulties.
Future research should aim to understand the impacts of these medicines in children and adolescents with these problems, who are more typical of those who request clinical services. 
