Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin‐norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for preventing tension‐type headache 
Tension‐type headache is a common type of headache that can significantly impair people's quality of life. Individuals who experience frequent or severe headaches may benefit from medications taken before the pain starts. Two classes of medication, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin‐norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), typically used to treat depression, are evaluated in this review. 
This is an update of a previous review that included studies on migraine and tension‐type headache. The original review has been split into two separate reviews: this update addresses only studies on tension‐type headache, while a second focuses on migraine. When we updated this review (November 2014), we identified two new studies. Six studies were already included in the previous version of the review. Overall, we analysed a total of 412 adults participants. All the studies had a small number of participants and were conducted over a period of two to four months. Only a few were of high quality. 
Results suggest that SSRIs or SNRIs are no better than placebo (sugar pill) in reducing the number of days with tension‐type headache. There were no differences in minor side effects between participants treated with SSRIs or SNRIs versus those treated with placebo. SSRIs and SNRIs do not seem to offer advantages when compared to other active treatments, specifically the tricyclic antidepressant, amitriptyline. The participants treated with SSRIs or SNRIs suffered fewer minor side effects than those who took amitriptyline, however the number of people who stopped taking one drug or the other due to side effects was approximately equal. These results are based on poor quality, small, short‐term trials (no more than four months). We did not find a study comparing SSRIs or SNRIs with other medications (e.g. botulinum toxin) or non‐drug therapies (e.g. psycho‐behavioural treatments, manual therapy, acupuncture). 
