Exercise training for adults receiving dialysis treatments
What is the issue? 
People undergoing dialysis treatments are at higher risk of cardiovascular disease and depression, have a lower quality of life and limited survival than the general population. Furthermore, many people undergoing dialysis have difficulty performing daily activities because they lack the physical capacity and strength to do so. Multiple trials have assessed the potential for exercise training to improve the condition of adults undergoing dialysis, but no consensus has been reached. 
What did we do? 
We searched the medical literature for all randomised trials that assessed structured exercise programs in people undergoing dialysis. We then assessed the quality of those studies and combined their results to draw conclusions regarding the effect of exercise training to improve aspects of physical and mental health that are important to patients undergoing dialysis. 
What did we find? 
We found 89 studies involving 4291 participants. The exercise training programs lasted from eight weeks to two years and most often took place three times a week during the dialysis treatment. We could not determine the impact of exercise training on death, cardiovascular events (such as a heart attack) or mental well‐being. Moderate certainty evidence suggested that exercise training of any type is likely to improve depressive symptoms in adults undergoing dialysis, particularly when the exercise was maintained for longer than four months. Moderate quality evidence also suggested that exercise training may improve people's capacity to perform activities and tasks through the improvement of their capacity to walk and the strength and endurance of their legs. Exercise training may also improve fatigue and the physical aspects of quality of life, but the quality of the evidence was low. We could not conclude on the effect of exercise training on a person's mental well‐being. 
ConclusionsExercise training for people undergoing maintenance dialysis is likely to improve depression and their capacity to perform activities and tasks. Exercise training may also improve fatigue and pain sightly. Exercise training may improve the physical aspects of quality of life, but it is unclear whether it improves a person's mental well‐being. It is unclear whether exercise training reduces the number of deaths or cardiovascular events. 
