What is the diagnostic accuracy of optical coherence tomography (OCT), an imaging test, for the detection of skin cancer in adults? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are several different types of skin cancer. Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms, and it is important that it is recognised early so that it can be removed. If it is not recognised (also known as a false‐negative test result), treatment can be delayed, and this risks the melanoma spreading to other organs in the body, which may lead to eventual death. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) are usually localised (i.e. limited to a certain part of the body) skin cancers, although cSCC can spread to other parts of the body and BCC can cause disfigurement if not recognised early. Diagnosing a skin cancer when it is not actually present (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery and other investigations and can cause stress and anxiety to the patient. Making the correct diagnosis is important, and mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate optical coherence tomography (OCT) is for diagnosing skin cancer. Researchers in Cochrane included five studies to answer this question. Two studies were concerned with the diagnosis of melanoma and three with the diagnosis of BCC. 
What was studied in the review? 
A number of tools are available to skin cancer specialists which allow a more detailed examination of the skin compared to examination by the naked eye alone. Currently, a dermoscope is used by most skin cancer specialists, which magnifies the skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) using a bright light source. OCT magnifies the surface of a skin lesion to the level of that seen using a microscope using near‐infrared light. It is quick to perform but is more expensive compared to dermoscopy and requires specialist training. Review authors examined how useful OCT is to help diagnose skin cancers when used after visual inspection or visual inspection plus dermoscopy. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included five studies: two studies with 97 participants with 133 skin lesions suspected of being melanoma, and three studies with 305 participants with 396 lesions suspected of being BCC of which one (50 lesions) also analysed cSCCs (nine lesions). 
The studies investigating the accuracy of OCT for diagnosing melanoma were small and too different from each other to allow a reliable estimate of the accuracy of OCT for melanoma to be made. Similarly, only one small, low‐quality study investigated the accuracy of OCT for diagnosing cSCC. 
For identifying BCC, two studies showed the effects of skin specialists using OCT after visual inspection alone, or visual inspection with dermoscopic examination. These two studies indicated that in theory, if OCT were to be used in a group of 1000 people with skin lesions that were particularly difficult to diagnose, of whom 600 (60%) actually had BCC, then: 
‐ an estimated 662 people would have an OCT result confirming that a BCC was present and of these 93 (14%) would not actually have had a BCC (false‐positive result); 
‐ of the 338 people with an OCT result indicating that no BCC was present, 31 (9%) would actually have a BCC (false‐negative result). 
Compared to making a diagnosis of BCC using visual inspection plus dermoscopy, the addition of OCT in this group would reduce the number of false‐positive results by 87 (thus reducing unnecessary surgical procedures) and would miss 53 fewer BCCs. 
How reliable are the results of the studies of this review? 
In all included studies, the diagnosis of skin cancer was made by lesion biopsy (OCT/dermoscopy positive) (a biopsy involves taking a sample of body cells and examining them under a microscope), and the absence of skin cancer was confirmed by biopsy (OCT/dermoscopy negative)*. This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether people really had skin cancer. However, the small number of studies included in this review, and variability between them, reduced the reliability of findings. Included studies also had important limitations, in particular study participants were from more restricted groups than would be eligible for an OCT scan in practice (e.g. all studies included people with skin lesions that had already been selected for surgical removal), while the way in which OCT was used may not reflect real‐life situations. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Studies were conducted in Europe and the US only. Average age (reported in only two studies) was 46 years for melanoma and 63 years for BCC. The percentage of people with a final diagnosis of melanoma was 23% and 27% (in two studies), ranged from 58% to 61% for BCC (three studies), and was 18% for cSCC (one study). For the diagnosis of BCC, the results apply to people with 'pink' and non‐pigmented skin lesions that the clinician considers particularly difficult to diagnose by the naked eye alone. 
What are the implications of this review? 
Not enough research has been done on using OCT in detecting skin cancers. The results of this review suggest that OCT might help to diagnose BCC when it is difficult to distinguish it from benign skin lesions, but it is not yet clear whether it can adequately distinguish between BCC, cSCC, and melanoma skin cancers. More studies are needed comparing OCT to dermoscopy and to other microscopic techniques (such as reflectance confocal microscopy) in well‐described groups of people with suspicious skin lesions. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for and used studies published up to August 2016.
*In these studies biopsy or clinical follow‐up were the standard comparisons.
