Ayurvedic treatments for diabetes mellitus:
People with diabetes and other chronic diseases often use complementary and alternative medicines. This review examines the efficacy and safety of the use of various Ayurvedic treatments for diabetes mellitus. We found seven trials which included 354 participants (172 on treatment, 158 on control, 24 could not be classified). All these studies included adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus. Six studies tested five different types of herbal mixtures (proprietary drugs) and only one tested 'whole system' Ayurvedic treatment. The duration of treatment ranged from three to six months. One study each of Diabecon, Inolter and Cogent DB (proprietary herbal mixtures) found significantly lower glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1C) levels at the end of the treatment period compared to controls. Two studies of Diabecon, and one study of Cogent DB (proprietary herbal mixtures) found significantly lower fasting blood sugar levels at the end of the study period in the treatment group. No deaths were observed in these trials and side effects did not differ significantly between intervention and control groups. One study of Pancreas tonic reported no significant change in health‐related quality of life. No study reported on or was designed to investigate diabetic complications, death from any cause and costs. Despite positive results in some studies, and absence of serious side effects, firm conclusions cannot be drawn due to weak methods and small number of participants in the evaluated studies. Further research is needed to assess the efficacy of these treatments. Ayurvedic physicians generally use a mixture of various herbs or proprietary preparations along with diet, exercise and mode of living. The treatments are usually individualised taking into account the balance of three 'doshas'. It is possible that the interventions in the trials analysed have not replicated actual Ayurvedic practice but only assessed some components individually. 
