Dipeptidyl‐peptidase (DPP)‐4 inhibitors and glucagon‐like peptide (GLP)‐1 analogues for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Review question 
Are the glucose‐lowering medicines, DPP‐4 inhibitors (e.g. linagliptin or vildagliptin) and GLP‐1 analogues (e.g. exenatide or liraglutide) able to prevent or delay the development of type 2 diabetes and its associated complications in people at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes? 
Background 
DPP‐4 inhibitors and GLP‐1 analogues are widely used to treat people with type 2 diabetes. People with moderately elevated blood glucose are said to be at an increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes (often referred to as 'prediabetes'). It is currently not known whether DPP‐4 inhibitors or GLP‐1 analogues should be prescribed for people with raised blood glucose levels who do not have type 2 diabetes. We wanted to find out whether these medicines could prevent or delay type 2 diabetes in people at increased risk. We also wanted to know the effects on patient‐important outcomes such as complications of diabetes (e.g. kidney and eye disease, heart attacks, strokes), death from any cause, health‐related quality of life (a measure of a person's satisfaction with their life and health) and side effects of the medicines. 
Study characteristics 
Participants had to have blood glucose levels higher than considered normal, but below the glucose levels that are used to diagnose type 2 diabetes mellitus. We found seven randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 2702 participants. The duration of the treatments varied from 12 weeks to 160 weeks. One study investigating liraglutide dominated the evidence (2285/2702 participants). The participants in this study were overweight or obese. 
This evidence is up to date as of January 2017.
Key results 
DPP‐4 inhibitors did not reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes compared with placebo (a dummy medicine). In the big study investigating the GLP‐1‐analogue liraglutide, given in a dose used for obese people (3.0 mg), the development of type 2 diabetes was delayed: 26/1472 (1.8%) participants randomised to liraglutide compared with 46/738 (6.2%) participants randomised to placebo developed type 2 diabetes after 160 weeks. On the other side, 970/1472 (66%) participants randomised to liraglutide compared with 268/738 (36%) participants randomised to placebo switched back to normal glucose levels. This study was extended for another 12 weeks without treatment and five additional participants developed diabetes in the liraglutide group, compared with one participant in the placebo group. After the 12 weeks without treatment, 740/1472 (50%) participants in the liraglutide group compared with 263/738 (36%) participants in the placebo group had glucose levels considered as normal. This means that to keep chances high to prevent type 2 diabetes in people at risk one probably needs to continuously take this drug. Of note, serious adverse events (e.g. defined as hospitalisation or a hazard putting the participant at risk, such as an interaction with another medicine) happened more often following liraglutide treatment (230/1524 (15%) participants in the liraglutide group and 96/755 (13%) participants in the placebo group) and it is unclear whether taking this drug is safe in the long term. 
We detected neither an advantage nor a disadvantage of DPP‐4 inhibitors or GLP‐1 analogues in relation to non‐fatal heart attacks, non‐fatal strokes or heart failure. Our included studies did not report on other complications of diabetes such as kidney or eye disease. The effects on health‐related quality of life were inconclusive. In the included studies, very few participants died and there was no apparent relation to treatment. 
Future studies should investigate more patient‐important outcomes like complications of diabetes and especially the side effects of the medications, because we do not know for sure whether 'prediabetes' is just a condition arbitrarily defined by a laboratory measurement, is in fact a real risk factor for type 2 diabetes mellitus and whether treatment of this condition translates into better patient‐important outcomes. 
Quality of the evidence 
All included trials had deficiencies in the way they were conducted or how key items were reported. For the individual comparisons, the number of participants was small, resulting in a high risk of random errors (play of chance). 
