Convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy for lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia 
Review Question 
What are the effects of convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy in men with bothersome urinary symptoms because of an enlarged prostate? 
Background 
Prostate enlargement is common in older men, and can cause bothersome urinary symptoms, such as having to pass their water (voiding) often, a weak stream while voiding, or dribbling. If lifestyle changes and medications don't help, a variety of surgical procedures, including transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP), can improve these symptoms. They may also cause unwanted effects, such as problems with ejaculation or erections. Recently, a new procedure called 'convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy' has become available. It is unclear how it compares to other treatments, such as TURP. 
Study characteristics  We found a single study, with 197 men, that compared convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy to a sham procedure (men were made to believe they received treatment, while in reality, they did not), funded by the device company. The men's average age was 62.9 years, and most had a moderate degree of bothersome urinary symptoms. 
We found no studies that compared convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy to another form of active treatment, such as TURP that men with an enlarged prostate and bothersome symptoms might otherwise choose. 
Key results 
Compared to a sham procedure, and with a three‐month follow‐up, convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy may improve urinary symptoms (low certainty of evidence). Convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy also likely improves quality of life (moderate certainty of evidence). We are very uncertain whether serious unwanted side effects are more common or not (very low certainty of evidence). Men's erections and ejaculations may be similar in men who have convective radiofrequency water vapour thermal therapy and those who receive the sham procedure (low certainty of evidence). 
Findings of this review are up to date until 18 February 2020.
Certainty of the evidence 
We judged the certainty of the evidence for the outcomes to be moderate, low or very low. Reasons for not being so confident had to do with the study design and the study size. 
