Anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor for neovascular glaucoma
What was the aim of this review? To compare treatment with and without anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) medications for people with neovascular glaucoma (NVG). 
Key message It is uncertain whether treatment with anti‐VEGF medications is more beneficial than treatment without anti‐VEGF medications for people with NVG. More research is needed to investigate the long‐term effect of anti‐VEGF medications compared with, or in addition to, conventional treatment. 
What did we study in this review? VEGF is a protein produced by cells in your body, and produces new blood vessels when needed. When cells produce too much VEGF, abnormal blood vessels can grow in the eye. NVG is a type of glaucoma where the angle between the iris (coloured part of the eye) and the cornea (transparent front part of the eye) is closed by new blood vessels growing in the eye, hence, the name 'neovascular'. New blood vessels can cause scarring and narrowing, which can eventually lead to complete closure of the angle. This results in increased eye pressure since the fluid in the eye cannot drain properly. In NVG, the eye is often red and painful, and the vision is abnormal. High pressure in the eye can lead to blindness. 
Anti‐VEGF medication is a type of medicine that blocks VEGF, therefore, slowing the growth of blood vessels. It is administered by injection into the eye. It can be used early stage, when conventional treatment may not be possible. Most studies report short‐term (generally four to six weeks) benefits of anti‐VEGF medication, but long‐term benefits are not clear. 
What were the main results of this review? We included four studies enrolling a total of 263 participants with NVG. In one study, results beyond the treatment period of 1 week could not be evaluated. In another study, results were uncertain due to the limitation of study design. 
The last two studies reported different results for lowering eye pressure; one study showed inconclusive results, and the other study showed that anti‐VEGF medications were more effective. The certainty of the evidence in these studies was low, due to limitations in the study designs and inconsistency of results. Therefore, available evidence is insufficient to recommend the routine use of anti‐VEGF medication in individuals with NVG. 
How up to date is the review? We searched for studies that were published up to 22 March 2019. 
