Initial antibiotic treatment for coverage of 'atypical' pathogens for community‐acquired pneumonia in hospitalized adults 
Pneumonia is a serious lung infection and is usually treated with antibiotics. Bacteria which cause community‐acquired pneumonia (CAP, pneumonia contracted outside healthcare settings) are traditionally divided into 'typical' and 'atypical', each dictating a different antibiotic treatment. Atypical bacteria include, Legionella pneumophila (L. pneumophila), Mycoplasma pneumoniae (M. pneumoniae) and Chlamydia pneumoniae (C. pneumoniae). The main 'typical' agent causing CAP is Streptococcus pneumoniae (S. pneumoniae). It is usually not possible to determine which of the many potential agents is the cause of CAP, so that antibiotic treatment is empirical, customarily covering both typical and atypical bacteria. While typical coverage is essential, the necessity of the atypical coverage has not been proven. In the previous version of this review we showed that there was no advantage to the atypical arm. Given the persisting inconsistency between current guidelines for treatment of pneumonia and the available evidence, we undertook to update this systematic review. 
This Cochrane review looked at trials comparing antibiotic regimens with atypical coverage to those without, limited to hospitalized adults with CAP. We included 28 trials, involving 5939 patients. For the regimens tested, no advantage was found for regimens covering atypical bacteria in the major outcomes tested ‐ mortality and clinical efficacy. There was no significant difference between the groups in the frequency of total adverse events, or those requiring discontinuation of treatment. However, gastrointestinal events were less common in the atypical arm. 
There are limitations to this review in that a single study compared the addition of the atypical antibiotic to a typical antibiotic, the major question in clinical practice; most compared a single atypical antibiotic to a single typical antibiotic. Seventeen of the 27 trials were open label, 21 of the 27 studies were sponsored by pharmaceutical companies of which all but one was conducted by the manufacturer of the atypical antibiotic. 
