Behavioural and cognitive behavioural therapy for obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD) in individuals with autism spectrum disorder (ASD) 
Aim of the review 
The aim of the review is to see if cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) can help people who have OCD who also have ASD. 
Background 
People who have been given a diagnosis of ASD tend to have certain things in common. They often understand social interactions and communication differently to other people. People with ASD may also be less flexible in their thinking than other people, which may make it more difficult for them to use psychological therapies in the way that they are usually presented. The opinions of people with ASD are valuable in helping clinicians decide which research areas related to ASD should take priority. 
Someone who has been diagnosed with OCD has certain symptoms which, to some extent, affect how they are able to get on with their lives. Someone with OCD has persistent thoughts, although they don't want the thoughts and often think that the thoughts are unreasonable. These thoughts are often worries about themselves or someone else being harmed or about something not being perfect or just right. Sometimes the person with OCD feels as if they have to think thoughts or do actions repeatedly to 'make things right', even though they often really know that they don't need to. The repeated actions might be something like washing their hands. 
Research has shown that people with ASD are more likely to develop OCD. People may have certain genes that make them more likely to develop both ASD and OCD, or it may be that the way people with ASD tend to think makes them more likely to have OCD. 
Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) has been used for a long time to treat OCD. CBT is usually carried out by visiting a therapist, but it can be delivered in different ways, such as online. CBT involves talking about the repeated thoughts that occur and helping the person manage and reduce them, and also involves trying to carry out compulsive actions less often. Because people with ASD sometimes have a different way of thinking and communicating, clinicians have wondered if CBT would be as useful to treat OCD in people with ASD as it is in people who have OCD but don't have ASD. Other researchers have devised ways to change the way that CBT is delivered to people with ASD to help them to get the most out of the treatment, and this is called 'adapted CBT'. Studies have shown that adapted CBT is useful for some anxiety disorders that occur in ASD. However, not as many studies have looked at how adapted CBT might be useful for OCD in people with ASD. 
Search 
We searched for randomised controlled trials of delivery of CBT to people with OCD who also had ASD. A randomised controlled trial is a trial where the participants are randomly allocated to CBT or another treatment group so that the people running the trial have no say about and do not know to which group the participants belong. The other treatment group is called the control group. In these studies, the people in the control group do not receive CBT, but they may have sessions with their therapists that do not include CBT, or they may be on a waiting list. If meeting with your therapist or waiting for time to pass were just as helpful as CBT, for example, then the results would be less likely to show a difference between the outcomes of the treatment group and the control group. Conversely, if CBT was more effective, then we might expect to see the CBT group doing better than the control group. Therefore, at the end of each trial, when the results in the treatment group are compared to the results in the control group, it gives information about how effective CBT might be for people with OCD and ASD. The evidence in this review is current to August 2020. 
Conclusion 
We found that there was only one published randomised controlled trial of delivery of CBT to people with OCD and ASD that met our search criteria. The control group in this trial was given a treatment called 'anxiety management' which helped the participants to manage anxiety but did not help them to deal specifically with repeated thoughts and actions, as CBT does. This study aimed to see if either anxiety management or CBT was better at treating OCD in people with ASD, but the study did not find a difference in response between the two treatments. 
