Growth factor‐supplemented culture media for women undergoing assisted reproduction
Review question 
Does culture media containing the growth factor GM‐CSF (granulocyte macrophage colony‐stimulating factor) improve the chances of a pregnancy and live‐born baby, and reduce the risk of miscarriage, twin or triplet pregnancy, premature birth, birth defects, genetic problems in the baby, and stillbirth? 
Background 
Assisted reproduction includes processes whereby a woman's eggs and a man's sperm are combined to achieve fertilisation outside of the body. Embryos are placed in a solution called culture medium to support the growing embryo until it can be replaced into the woman's uterus. Culture medium supplemented with GM‐CSF is widely available in clinics and is often offered as an 'add‐on' to an in vitro fertilisation (IVF) cycle in an effort to improve the success rates of treatment. Using GM‐CSF‐supplemented culture medium can make IVF more expensive. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to October 2019. We obtained data from three randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) of 1532 infertile women undergoing IVF or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI), a specialised form of IVF whereby the sperm is injected into the egg. We compared GM‐CSF‐supplemented culture media versus culture media not supplemented with GM‐CSF for those undergoing assisted reproduction. 
What the review found 
Low‐quality evidence reveals that we are uncertain whether GM‐CSF‐containing culture media makes any difference to the live‐birth rate when compared to using culture media not containing GM‐CSF. This suggests that if the rate of live birth associated with culture media not containing GM‐CSF is 22%, the rate with the use of GM‐CSF‐containing culture media would be between 21% and 30%. Low‐quality evidence also reveals that we are uncertain whether GM‐CSF‐containing culture media makes any difference to miscarriage when compared to using culture media not containing GM‐CSF. This suggests that if the miscarriage rate associated with culture media not containing GM‐CSF is 4%, the rate with the use of GM‐CSF‐containing culture media would be between 2% and 5%. Low‐quality evidence for pregnancy, birth defects, and genetic problems with the baby, and very low‐quality evidence for twin or triplet pregnancies, and premature birth, reveals that we are uncertain whether GM‐CSF‐containing culture media makes any difference to these outcomes when compared to culture media not containing GM‐CSF. Two studies looked at stillbirth, but as no stillbirths occurred in either study, we were unable to analyse this outcome. 
Overall conclusions 
Due to the very low to low quality of the evidence, we cannot be certain whether GM‐CSF is any more or less effective or harmful than culture media not supplemented with GM‐CSF. It is important that independent information on the available evidence is made accessible to those considering using GM‐CSF‐supplemented culture media. In the meantime, more large studies are needed to increase the certainty of our conclusions. 
