Antioxidants to prevent respiratory decline in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy
Review question 
What are the effects (benefits and harms) of antioxidants for preventing breathing problems becoming worse in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD)? 
Background 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy is an inherited condition where boys show signs of muscle weakness in early childhood that become worse over time. The muscles used in breathing become involved, which leads to shortness of breath and the need for artificial ventilation (a machine to support breathing). Treatment with antioxidants has been proposed to slow down the loss of muscle strength and the decline in breathing. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the evidence up to 23 March 2021. We included two studies in boys with DMD whose breathing was affected. Both studies compared the antioxidant medicine idebenone with a dummy medicine. One study included 66 participants between 10 and 18 years of age. The participants in this study were not receiving corticosteroids (medicines shown to be beneficial in DMD). The other study involved 255 children with DMD who were also taking corticosteroids. This study was stopped early for lack of benefit. The full results of the study are not yet available. 
Study funding sources 
The studies were sponsored by Santhera Pharmaceuticals, the maker of idebenone.
Key results 
Idebenone may result in slightly less of a decline in forced vital capacity (a measure of lung capacity), but probably has little or no effect on quality of life in patients with worsening breathing. Idebenone may result in less of a decline in the ability to force air out of the lungs and airways (based on tests of forced expiratory volume in the first second and peak expiratory flow). Idebenone was associated with fewer serious side effects than the dummy drug and has little or no effect on non‐serious side effects. Idebenone may have little or no effect on muscle function (arm strength). We found no studies that looked at hospitalisation due to respiratory infection. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall certainty of the evidence was low. 
