Non‐pharmacological interventions for preventing clotting of extracorporeal circuits during continuous kidney replacement therapy 
What is the issue? 
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is a major problem in people with severe illness. In cases of severe AKI, kidney replacement therapy/dialysis (KRT) using circuits is necessary. Continuous kidney replacement therapy is performed continuously over 24 hours. Clotting of the CKRT circuit can interfere with this treatment. To prevent this, a variety of non‐pharmacological (not using medication) interventions have been studied. We aimed to summarise current evidence regarding the efficacy of non‐pharmacological interventions for preventing clotting of extracorporeal circuits during CKRT. 
What did we do? 
We searched for available evidence from the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Specialised Register up to 25 January 2021. Our review summarised the results of 20 randomised studies involving a total of 1143 people. 
What did we find? 
We found that the quality of the 20 included studies was low, and the number randomised was small. The majority of the included studies did not report death as an outcome. We found that continuous venovenous haemodiafiltration (CVVHDF), as compared with continuous venovenous haemofiltration (CVVH), may prolong circuit lifespan. In addition, pre‐dilution haemofiltration, as compared with post‐dilution haemofiltration, a longer catheter placing the tip at the right atrium, as compared with a shorter catheter placing the tip in the superior vena cava, and surface‐modified double lumen catheter, as compared with standard double lumen catheter, may extend the circuit lifespan. However, higher blood flow compared to standard blood flow rate might not affect circuit lifespan. Overall, the data was limited and of very low certainty. 
Conclusions 
We found that the effects of non‐pharmacological interventions in people with AKI receiving CKRT remain unclear. There is a need for studies assessing CKRT circuit lifespan as well as other clinically important outcomes. 
