Corneal collagen cross‐linking for thinning of the transparent front part of the eye ('keratoconus') 
Review question  Is corneal collagen cross‐linking (CXL) a good treatment for slowing down the progression of keratoconus? 
Background  Keratoconus is a condition where the transparent front of the eye (cornea) gets thinner and begins to bulge. This leads to vision problems, usually short‐sightedness (distant objects appear blurred). The condition is more common in children and young adults and can deteriorate over time. Initially glasses and contact lenses can help. If the disease progresses, the only option may be a corneal transplant. 
CXL is a new treatment for keratoconus. The eye doctor removes the outer layer of the cornea, puts in vitamin B2 eye drops, and then treats the eye with ultraviolet A light radiation. This can be done in outpatients and takes about an hour. 
Study characteristics  The searches are current to August 2014. We found three randomised controlled trials, which were done in the United States, the United Kingdom, and Australia. A total of 219 eyes were randomly allocated to treatment with CXL or no treatment. In all three studies the surgery was done in the same way. None of the studies included children. 
Key results  Eyes treated with CXL were less likely to have problems with progression of bulging compared to eyes that were not treated. However, the studies were small and there were some concerns about the way they were done. It is therefore difficult to say exactly how much the treatment helped. None of the studies reported the risk of eyesight getting worse but, on average, treated eyes had better vision (about 10 letters better) compared to untreated eyes. None of the studies reported on a change in quality of life for the participant. The main adverse effects were inflammation and swelling; this occurred in approximately one in 10 participants. 
Quality of the evidence  We judged the quality of the evidence to be very low because of problems in the way the studies were done and reported and the small number of eyes included. 
