Tea tree oil for Demodex blepharitis
What was the aim of this review?To examine the effects of tea tree oil, an essential oil derived from an Australian tree, which can be applied in many different forms (eyelid wipes, eyelid shampoo, oil massages, etc.) on Demodex blepharitis. Demodex blepharitis is an inflammation of the eyelid caused by Demodex mites (frequently referred to as eyelash mites). 
Key messagesWe are uncertain if tea tree oil is better compared to other treatments. Other factors such as dosage, ocular hygiene, and patient compliance likely affect treatment outcomes; however, more and better‐designed studies are needed to confirm these findings. 
What did we study in this review?Blepharitis causes symptoms such as eye itching, burning, dryness, irritation, watering, or blurry vision, which lead people to seek medical attention. This study aimed to understand the ability of tea tree oil to improve symptoms or to treat Demodex blepharitis (or both) in comparison to no treatment or other forms of treatment containing no tea tree oil. 
What were the main results of this review?This review included six studies with 562 participants (1124 eyes). They were men and women between the ages of 39 and 55 years. The included studies were conducted in the US, Korea, China, Australia, Ireland, and Turkey. Trial designs greatly varied, which limited analyses and the confidence in the results. Most studies included in this report had a high degree of bias. It is uncertain if tea tree oil (concentration ranging from 5% to 50%) is helpful for reducing the number of Demodex mites in people with Demodex blepharitis in short‐term cases. While not fully addressed in the reviewed literature, people should be educated on how to properly apply tea tree oil products because patient compliance and method of application likely affects efficacy. None of the studies in this review reported any side effects directly related to the treatment; however, one study did report irritation around the eyes on using tea tree oil, which was resolved on re‐educating the person on the application technique. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?Cochrane Review authors searched for trials that had been published before 18 June 2019. 
