Metal implants used to fix broken bones in the hip joint in older adults
This review assessed evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs, on the relative benefits and harms of different metal implants used to treat one type of hip fracture in older adults (aged 60 years or over). 
Background 
A hip fracture is a break at the top of the leg bone. We included people with a break just below the ball and socket joint. These types of broken hip are common in older adults whose bones may be fragile because of a condition called osteoporosis. They often happen after a fall from a standing or sitting position. A common way of mending this break is to fix the broken parts of bone with metal implants. During an operation, the surgeon may insert a smooth pin or screw through the two parts of broken bone. A smooth pin is not threaded like a screw but may have extra features such as a fold‐out hook. Alternatively, the surgeon may use a 'fixed angle plate' which sits on the outer edge of the broken bone and is attached to the bone with screws or pins. 
Search date 
We searched for RCTs (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), and quasi‐RCTs (in which people are put into groups by a method which is not randomised, such as date of birth or hospital record number), published up to 6 July 2020. 
Study characteristics 
We included 38 studies, involving 8585 adults with 8590 hip fractures. The average age of study participants ranged from 60 to 84 years; 73% were women, which is usual for people who have this type of hip fracture. 
Key results 
Smooth pins compared with fixed angle plates (four studies, 1313 participants): we are uncertain whether there is a difference between these implants in improving a person's ability to walk independently (with no more than one walking stick), in the number of people who die early (within four months of surgery) or up to 12 months after surgery, and in how many people need additional surgery (e.g. because of deep infection around the implant). 
Screws compared with fixed angle plates (11 studies, 2471 participants): we found no evidence of difference between these implants in hip function (ability to use the hip), health‐related quality of life (HRQoL), death at 12 months, and additional surgery. We are uncertain whether there is a difference between these implants in independent walking, and early deaths. 
Screws compared to smooth pins (seven studies, 1119 participants): we found no evidence of difference between these implants in deaths at 12 months. We are uncertain whether there is a difference between these implants in early deaths and additional surgery. 
Screws or pins compared with fixed angle plates (15 studies, 3784 participants): we found no evidence of difference between these implants in deaths at 12 months, or additional surgery. We are uncertain whether there is a difference between implants in independent walking and early death. We found no additional evidence for hip function or HRQoL. 
No studies in the review reported activities of daily living or delirium.
Certainty of the evidence 
Although there were some large studies, most of the evidence for each outcome came from only a few participants. Many older studies were not well reported. It was not possible to hide from the surgeons what type of fixing was used, which might affect a surgeon's decision on whether someone needed additional surgery. Sometimes, we found differences between the findings of individual studies that we could not explain. 
For these reasons, we assessed the evidence for the outcomes as either low‐ or very low‐certainty evidence. This means we had limited confidence or very little confidence in the results. 
Conclusions 
There may be little or no difference between screws and fixed angle plates in hip function, HRQoL, deaths at 12 months, and additional surgery, and between screws and pins in deaths at 12 months. But we are uncertain of the effects for other outcomes, including those for smooth pins versus fixed angle plates, because the evidence was very low‐certainty. More well‐designed RCTs on metal implants will be helpful. 
