The use of additional medication during cataract surgery to improve the continued success of a pre‐existing operation (trabeculectomy) 
Why is this question important?Glaucoma and cataract are a global problem that can impact a person's economic and social circumstances. Vision loss from glaucoma is permanent, as the increased eye pressure that occurs in glaucoma damages the optic nerve which carries signals from the eye to the brain. The primary aim of treatment for glaucoma is to reduce this pressure, hence slowing down any progressive damage to vision. 
Although medical and laser treatments are effective in treating glaucoma, an operation known as a trabeculectomy is required when these treatments do not stop progression of damage to vision. A small hole is cut in the white of the eye to allow excess fluid to drain from the eye. When a person with a trabeculectomy undergoes cataract surgery, an additional medication is often used to stop the eye healing too much and creating scar tissue, which can block the drainage hole and cause the trabeculectomy to fail. 
In this review, we looked at patients with a functioning trabeculectomy who were undergoing cataract surgery and who received additional medication (5‐fluorouracil, mitomycin C, or anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor therapy) versus those who did not receive any additional medication. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?We searched for randomised controlled trials (studies in which people are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups), because these studies provide the strongest evidence about the effects of a given treatment. We planned to combine the results of the included studies to arrive at an answer to our research question. 
What did we find?We found no randomised controlled trials that met our inclusion criteria. 
What does this mean?We do not know whether an additional medical treatment during cataract surgery improves the chances of the drainage hole remaining open, as there is no evidence at present. It would be helpful if more studies were conducted in this area in future. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to April 2021. 
