The usefulness of protocols for reducing the time newborn infants spend on mechanical ventilation in the neonatal intensive care unit 
Review question 
Are protocols useful for reducing the time newborn infants spend on mechanical ventilation in the neonatal intensive care unit?  Background 
Mechanical ventilation is used to help newborns to breath when they are too sick or born too premature to breath on their own. However, mechanical ventilation is not without risk, and can cause (permanent) damage to the lungs. For example, the pressure needed to fill the lungs with air may destroy the very fragile air sacs, and result in scaring of the lungs. For this reason, it is important to recognize when a newborn is mature and strong enough to start breathing for himself/herself, and to reduce (wean) the ventilator support. There is, unfortunately, no current agreement on the best way to wean newborns off the ventilator. Researchers have studied the usefulness of standardized protocols to guide the process of weaning off the ventilator in adults and children. In adults, 17 studies of weaning protocols have shown benefit in helping the doctors and nurses wean adults off the ventilator in a safe and timely manner. In children, three studies of weaning protocols have shown they are beneficial in reducing time on the ventilator, but the studies were too few to show harms. As yet, we do not know if weaning protocols in neonates provide benefits or harms. However, these standardized protocols have supplied us with firm evidence for their usefulness in weaning from mechanical ventilation in the care of children.  Study characteristics 
The purpose of this review was to look at weaning protocol studies in newborn infants to see if we could draw conclusions on their usefulness for weaning practice in neonatal care.  Key results  We found no studies that involved newborn infants before the 28th day of life. We found two studies with a subpopulation of newborns, but we were not able to extract the data from this subgroup out of the total group studied.  Quality of evidence 
There is currently no evidence comparing protocolized and non‐protocolized weaning in newborn infants in the neonatal intensive care unit. 
