Surgical and medical interventions for abdominal aortic graft infections
Background 
Abdominal aortic graft infections are a serious complication following aortic aneurysm surgery. They can be managed in two ways: either with surgery or medical management. Surgery is currently the mainstay of treatment and is usually performed by two methods, one of which involves removing and replacing the infected graft, and the other bypassing the infected graft. Medical management commonly involves a long‐term course of antibiotics. Medical management avoids the risk of potential complications of surgery, but requires use of antibiotics for several months, or even lifelong. There is currently no agreement on which intervention (surgical or medical) is the most effective in managing abdominal aortic graft infections. In emergency or complex situations such as graft rupture, surgical management is the only option, whilst for those unfit for surgery, medical management is the preferred option. However, in non‐emergency situations, it is often personal preference that influences the healthcare provider's decision‐making. This review aimed to assess and compare the effects of surgical and medical interventions for abdominal aortic graft infections. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) to December 2019. We found no trials that met our inclusion criteria. Hence there is currently insufficient evidence to draw conclusions relating to the effects of surgical and medical interventions for abdominal aortic graft infections. 
Conclusion 
Multicentre randomised controlled trials are required to identify the most effective method of treating aortic graft infection. By doing this, 'gold standard' guidelines can be formulated so that all patients can receive the same level of treatment without regard for where they are being treated. 
