Predicting relapse or recurrence of depression
What is the aim of this review? 
Relapse and recurrence (becoming unwell again after making an improvement) are common in depression and lead to increased disability and decreased quality of life for patients. Relapse is a re‐emergence of the initial episode of depression after some initial improvement, whereas recurrence is the onset of a new episode of depression after recovery. Outcomes, such as relapse and recurrence, can sometimes be predicted while people are well, using information available at the time. A mathematical calculation can be performed to assess an individual person's risk; this calculation is known as a 'prognostic model' or a prediction tool. In most health services, including the National Health Service (NHS) in the UK, resources such as doctors and therapists need to be used in the best way possible, for the people who will gain the most benefit from them. If accurate prediction tools are available, the information can be used to identify the most 'high risk' patients and make sure they receive additional support to try to prevent a relapse or a recurrence. 
The aim of this review was to identify studies that have attempted to develop a prediction tool for relapse or recurrence of depression in adults. We were interested in studies that had attempted to make this prediction while patients were well. We also included tools that predicted the chance of patients staying well. If we had found multiple studies that tested the same prediction tool, we planned to combine these to work out a better summary of how well that tool worked. 
Key messages 
We identified 10 prediction tools (over 11 studies) for relapse or recurrence. These were either not proven to be good at predicting relapse/recurrence, or the studies had problems with how they were carried out, meaning that none of the prediction tools were at a stage where they could be used in the real world. Further work is needed to improve prediction of relapse or recurrence of depression. 
What was studied in the review? 
We collected and analysed the results of 11 relevant studies. We were interested in several things: how researchers had defined relapse and recurrence (for example, whether they had used clinical interviews or self‐report questionnaires to diagnose depressive symptoms); what information was gathered to help make predictions; the techniques used by the researchers to help develop the tools; and how well the tools predicted. We were also interested in whether the tools were tested in a separate group of participants, which is essential to ensure that the model can predict accurately in patients in the real world. 
Finally, we assessed the studies to determine how confident we could be in the results, given the approaches taken by researchers (this is called 'risk of bias') and how relevant the studies were to our review (this is called 'applicability'). 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 11 studies. Ten of these developed different models and one study tested one of the models developed in a previous study. It was not possible to combine results for any particular tool. 
Ten of the 11 studies were rated at high risk of bias. This means that we cannot be confident in the results that were presented, due to some issues with the way the studies were conducted. The most common issue was that there were not enough participants included in the studies. Other common problems involved the statistical approaches used by the researchers. 
One study was at low overall risk of bias, which means that we can be more confident in trusting the results. However, this tool did not make accurate predictions about relapse or recurrence. 
We found no studies that could be used in clinical practice; further work is needed to develop tools for predicting relapse or recurrence of depression. 
How up‐to‐date is the review? 
The literature search for this review was completed in May 2020.
