Internal iliac artery revascularisation versus internal iliac artery occlusion for endovascular treatment of aorto‐iliac aneurysms 
Background 
An aorto‐iliac aneurysm is a dilatation (aneurysm) of the aorta, the main large blood vessel in the body, which carries blood out from the heart to all organs and iliac arteries (distal branches of the aorta). The aneurysm can grow and burst (rupture), which leads to severe bleeding and is frequently fatal; an estimated 15,000 deaths occur each year from ruptured aortic abdominal aneurysms in the USA alone. To avoid this complication, the aorto‐iliac aneurysm should be repaired when the maximum diameter of the aorta reaches 5 cm to 5.5 cm, or when the maximum diameter of the common iliac arteries reaches 3 cm to 4 cm. 
Endovascular repair of aorto‐iliac aneurysms is one approach that is used to manage this condition: a tube (stent‐graft) is placed inside the aorto‐iliac aneurysm, so that blood flows through the stent‐graft and no longer into the aneurysm, excluding it from the circulation. To achieve a successful deployment of the stent‐graft, a good seal zone (fixation zone) is needed in the aorta (proximal) and in the common iliac arteries (distal). However, in 40% of patients, the distal seal zone in the common iliac arteries is inadequate. In these cases, most commonly the stent‐graft is extended to the external iliac artery and the internal iliac artery is blocked (occluded). However, this obstruction (occlusion) is not without harms: the internal iliac artery supplies blood to the pelvic organs (rectum, bladder, and reproductive organs) and the pelvic muscles, and occlusion is associated with complications in the pelvic area such as buttock claudication (cramping pain in the buttock during exercise), sexual dysfunction, and spinal cord injury. 
New endovascular devices and techniques such as iliac branch devices have emerged to maintain blood flow into the internal iliac artery. These special stent‐grafts position the distal seal zone within the external iliac artery, and a side branch of the graft allows for revascularisation of the internal iliac artery, while excluding the aneurysm from the circulation, promoting an adequate distal seal zone, and maintaining pelvic circulation. This may also preserve the quality of life of treated individuals and may reduce serious complications including spinal cord ischaemia, ischaemic colitis, and gluteal necrosis. 
This review aimed to assess the effects of internal iliac artery revascularisation compared with internal iliac artery occlusion during endovascular repair of aorto‐iliac aneurysms. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We searched for evidence that directly compared internal iliac artery revascularisation versus internal iliac artery occlusion for endovascular treatment of aorto‐iliac aneurysms. Our searches up to 28 August 2019 did not identify any randomised controlled trials (clinical studies in which people are randomly (by chance alone) put into one of several intervention groups) that met our criteria. Studies are needed to help vascular and endovascular surgeons choose the best option for endovascular repair of aorto‐iliac aneurysms and isolated iliac aneurysms with an inadequate distal fixation zone. 
Conclusion 
We found no RCTs that compared internal iliac artery revascularisation versus internal iliac artery occlusion for endovascular treatment of aorto‐iliac aneurysms. High‐quality studies that evaluate the best strategy for managing the endovascular repair of aorto‐iliac aneurysms with inadequate distal seal zones in the common iliac artery are needed. 
