Screening women for gestational diabetes in pregnancy based on whether they are considered at risk, and in different settings 
What is the issue? 
What are the effects of screening all women for gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), compared with only screening those who are 'at risk'? What are the effects of screening women for GDM in different settings (such as in the community versus the hospital)? This review updates a Cochrane Review, first published in 2010, and subsequently updated in 2014. 
Why is this important? 
GDM is a form of diabetes that can develop during pregnancy, and can increase the risk of complications for mothers and their babies. Women with GDM are more likely to develop pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure and protein in the urine) and require a caesarean section. For babies, potential problems include being large for gestational age (growing larger than they normally would), or having hypoglycaemia (low blood sugar) after birth. Although GDM usually resolves following birth, mothers and their babies are at risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the future. 
Treating GDM can improve health outcomes. Women often do not know they have GDM. Screening to identify and treat GDM in pregnant women may therefore improve outcomes. The two main approaches are 'universal' where all women undergo screening; and 'selective' or 'risk factor'‐based where only those women 'at risk' are screened. The risk factors for GDM include certain ethnicities, being older, overweight or obese, having had a previous large baby, or a family history of GDM or type 2 diabetes. It possible to screen for GDM in different settings, such as in the community (e.g. a general practice clinic) or in hospital. The ideal screening method for GDM that leads to the best health outcomes for mothers and their babies remains unclear. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (January 2017) and included two trials involving 4523 women and their babies. Both trials were conducted in Ireland and were at a moderate to high risk of bias. We could not combine the data from these trials because they looked at different interventions and comparisons. One compared ‘universal’ screening with ‘risk factor’‐based screening for GDM. The other compared screening women at their general practitioners' clinic (primary care) versus at the hospital (secondary care). 
In one trial (with information available for 3152 women), more women were diagnosed with GDM in the group of women who received ‘universal’ screening, compared with the group of women with ‘risk factor’‐based screening (low‐quality evidence). The trial did not report on outcomes relating to the mothers, including high blood pressure disorders of pregnancy, caesarean birth, perineal trauma, weight gain in pregnancy, postnatal depression, and type 2 diabetes. The trial did not report outcomes relating to the babies including being born large‐for‐gestational age, death (before or shortly after birth), death or a serious complication, hypoglycaemia, or adiposity, type 2 diabetes, and disability in childhood or adulthood. 
In the second trial (with information available for 690 women), screening at the general practitioner's clinic versus the hospital did not make a clear difference to the number of women diagnosed with GDM (low‐quality evidence), high blood pressure (low‐quality evidence), pre‐eclampsia (low‐quality evidence), or the number who had a caesarean birth (low‐quality evidence). This trial did not report perineal trauma, weight gain in pregnancy, postnatal depression, or type 2 diabetes. Screening at the general practitioner's clinic versus at the hospital did not make a clear difference to the number of babies born large‐for‐gestational age (low‐quality evidence), death (before or shortly after birth), death or a serious complication (low‐quality evidence), or hypoglycaemia (very low‐quality evidence). Childhood or adulthood adiposity, type 2 diabetes, and disability were not reported in the trial. 
