Antibiotic treatment for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis in people with advanced liver disease 
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review? 
To find out the best available antibiotic for spontaneous bacterial peritonitis (fluid collection in the tummy (abdomen), infected with bacteria) in people with advanced liver disease (liver cirrhosis, or late stage scarring of the liver with complications). The abnormal buildup of fluid in people with liver cirrhosis is called ascites. Sometimes, this fluid may get infected with bacteria, with no obvious source of infection. This is called 'spontaneous bacterial peritonitis'. The main treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis is antibiotics, but it is unclear which antibiotic is best for treating it. The authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 12 randomised clinical trials (participants receive the treatment based on methods similar to a coin toss; this is to ensure that the people who receive the different treatments are similar in all aspects except the treatment, so that any differences in the results between the treatments can be attributed to the treatment rather than differences in the type of people who received the treatment). During the analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane techniques, which allows comparison of two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques, that allows comparison of many treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network meta‐analysis' or 'multiple treatment comparisons'). The aim is to gather reliable evidence on the relative benefits and harms of the different antibiotics. 
Date of literature search November 2018. 
Key messages None of the studies were conducted without flaws, and because of the very low certainty in the results, the authors cannot suggest which antibiotic, given alone or in combination to remove the bacteria from one's tummy, is better or worse than other antibiotics in the treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. 
The funding source was unclear in 10 studies; industrial organisations funded two studies. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review studied people, of any sex, age, and origin, with advanced liver disease due to various causes, and who had developed spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. People were administered different antibiotics for the treatment of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis. The authors excluded studies with liver transplanted participants and bacterial peritonitis due to other causes. The participants' age, when reported, ranged from 42 to 60 years. The number of females, when reported, ranged from 18 to 42 out of 100. The administered antibiotic groups were cephalosporins, penicillins, and quinolones. The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious complications, time to liver transplantation (replacement of a diseased liver with a healthy one), time until disappearance of spontaneous bacterial peritonitis, and disappearance of symptoms. 
