Giving less oral or intravenous fluid to newborn infants with breathing difficulty (transient tachypnea of the newborn) 
Review question 
Does fluid restriction (i.e. giving a lesser quantity of fluids by mouth to the stomach or through the veins) in babies with rapid breathing at birth due to delayed clearance of normal fetal lung fluid (a condition called "transient tachypnea of the newborn") reduce the duration of treatment with oxygen? 
Background 
Transient tachypnea (abnormally rapid breathing) of the newborn (TTN) is characterized by a high respiratory rate (more than 60 breaths per minute) and signs of respiratory distress (difficulty breathing). It typically appears within the first two hours of life in babies born at, or after, 34 weeks' gestational age. Although transient tachypnea of the newborn usually improves without treatment, it might be associated with wheezing in late childhood. The idea behind using fluid restriction for transient tachypnea of the newborn consists of reducing fluid in small cavities within the lungs called the alveoli and improving breathing difficulties. In the first days after birth, these babies may receive fluids directly into the mouth (colostrum or milk), to the stomach (milk or solutions containing dextrose solution), or through the veins (solutions containing dextrose solution). This review reports and critically analyzes available evidence on the benefits and harms of fluid restriction in the management of transient tachypnea of the newborn. 
Study characteristics 
We identified and included four studies (317 babies in total) comparing the use of restricted versus standard fluid administration. We found no ongoing studies; however, one trial is awaiting classification. Evidence is current to December 6, 2019. 
Key results 
The very limited available evidence cannot answer our review question. Only two small studies (172 babies) reported the duration of treatment with oxygen ‐ the primary outcome of this review ‐ and we are uncertain whether fluid restriction decreases or increases treatment duration. Three studies reported the incidence of the need for a breathing machine, and we are uncertain about any differences between restricted and standard fluid administration. The length of hospital stay was shorter by 22 hours for infants with fluid restriction; however, this was reported in only one trial (80 babies) of low methodological quality, and we are uncertain about this finding. 
