Preventing venous thromboembolism in women during pregnancy, childbirth and after birth 
We set out to determine from randomised controlled trials the benefits and harms of treatments during pregnancy, childbirth, and after birth to prevent deep vein clots in women who are at increased risk. 
What is the issue? 
A blood clot can form in a deep vein, usually in the legs. This is known as deep vein thrombosis (DVT). If part of the clot breaks off it can be carried in the blood to the lungs and block blood vessels there. This is called a pulmonary embolism (PE), and can cause death, although this is rare. Together these are known as venous thromboembolism (VTE) disease. A women's clotting system is more active during pregnancy to protect her from excessive bleeding during birth. Some women are at a higher risk of VTE during pregnancy and around the time of childbirth including women with previous VTE, thrombophilia (a condition which makes people more likely to develop clots) and following a caesarean birth. 
Why is this important? 
Women at increased risk of VTE during pregnancy and in the six weeks following childbirth are commonly given treatments to prevent blood clots. Treatments vary due to lack of clear guidelines. The treatments to prevent VTE include heparin type drugs, aspirin and the wearing of compression stockings to improve blood flow in the legs. Some of the treatments can potentially harm women, for example, by increasing blood loss after childbirth or interfering with wound healing. 
What evidence did we find? 
This is an update of a Cochrane Review published in 2014. We searched for new evidence in October 2019. Twenty‐nine randomised controlled studies, involving 3839 women, are now included. The studies were published from 1975 to 2016 and were mainly carried out in high‐income countries. They included women at increased risk of VTE who were pregnant, in childbirth, and after the birth. Treatments assessed included different types and doses of heparin (of low molecular weight heparin and unfractionated heparin), and compression stockings or devices. No deaths occurred. The reported findings were supported by very low‐certainty evidence. 
Starting treatment during pregnancy (with or without treatment after childbirth): we looked at the occurrence of symptomatic VTE and adverse effects that caused women to stop treatment. Any benefits of heparin were unclear when compared with no treatment or a placebo (assessed in up to four studies with 476 women). Similarly, for different types of heparin (assessed in up to four studies with 404 women), different doses of low molecular weight heparin (in one study with 144 women), and for compression stockings compared with no stockings (in one study with 44 women). 
