Polyunsaturated fatty acids for prevention and treatment of diseases of the heart and circulation 
Review question 
We reviewed randomised trials (participants have an equal chance to be assigned to either treatment) examining effects of increasing intake of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) on deaths and diseases of the heart and circulation (cardiovascular diseases), including heart attacks and stroke. 
Background 
We eat PUFA in our usual food, but quantities of PUFA eaten vary. There is some evidence that increasing the amount of PUFA we eat can reduce our blood cholesterol and make us less likely to develop cardiovascular disease, particularly if PUFAs are eaten instead of saturated fats (fats from animal sources such as meat and cheese). But eating more PUFA may increase our body weight, and omega‐6 fats (one component of PUFA) may worsen cardiovascular risk by increasing inflammation. Evidence on the benefits or harms of increasing PUFA intake on diseases of the heart and circulation, or on other health outcomes, is inconclusive. 
Trial characteristics 
Evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to 27 April 2017. We included 49 trials randomising 24,272 participants, for one to eight years. These trials assessed effects of eating more, compared to less PUFA, on diseases of the heart and circulation, and deaths. Twelve trials were very trustworthy (had low risk of bias overall). Participants were men and women, some with existing illnesses and some not. Trials took place in North America, Asia, Europe and Australia, and sixteen were funded only by national or charitable agencies. 
Key results 
Increasing PUFA probably makes little or no difference (neither benefit nor harm) to our risk of death (moderate‐quality evidence), and may make little or no difference to our risk of dying from cardiovascular disease (low‐quality evidence). However, increasing PUFA probably slightly reduces our risk of heart disease events and of combined heart and stroke events (moderate‐quality evidence). Fifty three people would need to eat more PUFA to prevent one person experiencing a heart disease event, and 63 people to prevent one person experiencing a heart or stroke event. Increasing PUFA may very slightly reduce risk of death due to heart disease, as well as stroke, but harm is possible (low‐quality evidence). PUFA probably slightly reduces fats circulating in the blood (triglycerides, moderate‐quality evidence but without effects on other lipids or adiposity). The evidence mainly comes from dietary‐advice trials of men living in high‐income countries. 
