Accuracy of different non‐invasive methods for identifying Helicobacter pylori 
Why is it important to know whether someone has Helicobacter pylori? 
Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is a type of bacteria which may be present in the stomach of some people. H pylori is believed to cause a number of cancers, including stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer, and throat cancer. H pylori is also linked with other diseases including stomach ulcers, heart burn, and a bloated feeling. If H pylori is found in an individual, appropriate treatment can be started. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To compare the accuracy of three different types of test for H pylori. These are: urea breath tests, blood tests (the specific blood test is called serology), and stool tests (in faeces). 
What was studied in this review? 
There are two types of urea breath test which use two different forms of carbon known as 13C and 14C, as well as multiple versions of serology and stool tests. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 101 studies which included 11,003 people who were tested for H pylori. Of these 11,003 participants, 5839 (53.1%) had H pylori infection. All the studies used one of the three tests listed above and compared these test results with the diagnosis given by endoscopic biopsy. Endoscopic biopsy involves obtaining tissue from the stomach using a thin flexible tube introduced through the mouth and testing for the presence of H pylori under the microscope. It is currently the most accurate available test, however it causes physical discomfort to the patient, with associated risks for harm. This is in contrast to the alternative non‐invasive tests in this review which are significantly less uncomfortable and have minimal or no risk of harm, making them desirable alternatives if they can be shown to be as accurate at diagnosing H pylori as endoscopic biopsy. Most of the studies included participants with heart burn or similar problems in the stomach and excluded participants who had previously undergone partial removal of the stomach and those having treatment for H pylori. 
Thirty‐four studies (4242 participants) used serology; 29 studies (2988 participants) used stool antigen test; 34 studies (3139 participants) used urea breath test‐13C; 21 studies (1810 participants) used urea breath test‐14C; and two studies (127 participants) used urea breath test but did not report the type of carbon used. Studies varied in the limit they used before saying a test was positive for H pylori infection and the type of stains used to examine the biopsy material. When we looked at all the data we found that urea breath tests were more accurate than blood and stool tests. The results mean that, on average, if 1000 people are tested, there will be 46 people without H pylori who will be misdiagnosed as having H pylori. Also, there will be 30, 42, 86, and 89 people with H pylori infection for whom the diagnosis of H pylori infection will be missed by urea breath test‐13C, urea breath test‐14C, serology, and stool antigen test, respectively. When we looked at the seven studies which compared urea breath test‐13C and serology, or urea breath test‐13C and stool antigen tests in the same participants, the results were uncertain and we cannot tell which test is more accurate. 
