The role of aerobic physical exercise for adults with haematological malignancies
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether aerobic physical exercise can improve health, or play a supporting role for adult patients suffering from haematological malignancies. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 18 relevant studies, of whom 14 reported our pre‐defined patient‐relevant outcomes. 
Key messages 
Aerobic physical exercise probably has a positive effect on fatigue and depression of patients with haematological malignancies. Evidence related to mortality, quality of life, and serious adverse events is still unclear. 
What was studied in the review? 
Haematological malignancies are tumours of the blood‐forming system, such as lymphomas, leukaemias, myelomas, myelodysplastic syndromes and myeloproliferative diseases. These diseases represent approximately seven per cent of new cancer diagnoses worldwide. Treatment strategies include wait‐and‐watch approaches, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, immunotherapy and stem cell transplantation, as well as supportive care to prevent, control or treat complications and side effects.  Although these patients have to endure long phases of therapy and immobility, which has a negative effect on their physical performance level, it is still common practice to recommend rest and to avoid intensive exercise.  There are several studies and approaches that try to establish another strategy and to include physical exercise, especially aerobic physical exercise, into the treatment strategy of haematological malignancies. In detail, these exercise programmes consist of aerobic, resistance and flexibility components, partly home‐based. Some prefer it to be integrated in daily living. A common method is also the use of tools such as bicycle ergometers or stretch bands as well as walking exercises. Aerobic physical exercise might improve oxygen supply to muscles and tissues of the body. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors of this review update identified nine new trials which could be added to the nine trials of the first version of this review. Of these 18 trials, 14 trials provided sufficient data to be meta‐analysed. Although six trials reported how many participants died during the study period or during the first 100 days, there is no evidence for differences in this outcome between the exercise group and the control group. 
Eight trials measured quality of life, physical functioning and anxiety and did not show any evidence for a difference between additional exercise and usual care. There might be a benefit for the exercise group in terms of fatigue and depression. 
