Prevention of occlusion of small veins in the liver after blood‐forming stem cell transplantation 
Review Question 
We reviewed evidence about the effects of medications to prevent blockage of small veins in the liver (veno‐occlusive disease or VOD) in people who undergo blood‐forming stem cell transplantation (HSCT). 
Background 
People undergoing HSCT can develop VOD, a severe complication which may lead to their death. Various medications with different mechanisms of action have been tried to prevent VOD. These prophylactic measures include heparin, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH), danaparoid, ursodeoxycholic acid, prostaglandin E1 (PGE1), glutamine, antithrombin III, defibrotide and fresh frozen plasma (FFP). Many transplant centres routinely administer these preventive measures, especially for people at high risk. 
Study Characteristics 
We included 14 randomised controlled trials (RCTs). Four trials (612 participants) compared ursodeoxycholic acid with or without additional treatment versus placebo or no treatment or the same additional treatment. Two trials (259 participants) compared heparin with no treatment. Two trials (106 participants) compared low molecular weight heparin with placebo or no treatment. One trial (360 participants) compared defibrotide with no treatment. One trial (34 participants) compared glutamine with placebo. Two trials (383 participants) compared fresh frozen plasma with or without additional treatment versus no treatment or the same additional treatment. One trial (30 participants) compared antithrombin III with heparin versus heparin alone. One trial compared heparin (47 participants) with LMWH (46 participants) and prostaglandin E1 (47 participants). No trial investigated the effects of danaparoid. The RCTs included participants of both genders with a wide age range and disease spectrum undergoing HSCT. The evidence is current as of January 2015. 
Key Results 
Ursodeoxycholic acid may reduce the occurrence of VOD, deaths from all causes and deaths due to VOD, but there was no evidence of a difference in overall survival. There was no evidence of difference in occurrence of VOD between treatment and control groups for heparin, LMWH, defibrotide, glutamine, FFP, antithrombin III, between heparin and LMWH, between heparin and PGE1, and between LMWH and PGE1. There was no evidence of difference in survival between treatment and control groups for heparin and defibrotide. There were no data on survival for trials of LMWH, glutamine, FFP, antithrombin III, between heparin and LMWH, between heparin and PGE1, and between LMWH and PGE1. There were no data on quality of life for any trials. Eleven trials reported adverse effects. There was no evidence of a difference in adverse events among treatment groups, except for one trial showing that defibrotide resulted in more adverse events compared with no treatment. 
Quality of the Evidence 
The quality of evidence for all outcomes was low to very low, because of high risk of bias in study design, results inconsistent across studies and imprecision of results. 
Conclusion 
There is low or very low quality evidence that ursodeoxycholic acid may reduce the incidence of hepatic VOD, overall mortality and mortality due to VOD in people undergoing HSCT. However, the most effective treatment is not well‐defined. There is insufficient evidence to support the use of heparin, low molecular weight heparin, defibrotide, glutamine, FFP, antithrombin III, and prostaglandin E1. Further high‐quality research is needed. 
