Nutritional supplementation for older people after hip fracture
Background and aim 
Older people with hip fractures are often malnourished at the time of their fracture and many have poor food intake while in hospital. Malnutrition may hinder recovery after hip fracture. We reviewed the effects of nutritional interventions in older people recovering from hip fracture. 
Search results 
We searched the scientific literature up to November 2015 and include 41 studies including 3881 participants. All nutritional interventions were started within one month of hip fracture. The studies had flaws in their methods that may affect the validity of their results. Some evidence was very low quality which means we are very unsure of the results. 
Key results 
Eighteen studies examined the use of additional oral feeds that provided energy from sources other than protein, protein, some vitamins and minerals. There was low‐quality evidence that these multinutrient oral feeds may not reduce mortality but that they may reduce the number of people with complications (e.g. pressure sore, infection, venous thrombosis, pulmonary embolism, confusion). There was very low‐quality evidence that oral multinutrient feeds may reduce unfavourable outcome (death or complications) and that they did not result in increased vomiting and diarrhoea. 
Four studies examined nasogastric tube feeding, where liquid food is delivered via a tube inserted into the nose and passed down into the stomach, with non‐protein energy, protein, some vitamins and minerals. These studies provided very low‐quality evidence that tube feeding, which was poorly tolerated, did not seem to make a difference to mortality or complications. Unfavourable outcome was not recorded and there was insufficient evidence on adverse events. 
One study provided very low‐quality evidence that nasogastric tube feeding followed by oral feeds may not affect mortality or complications. It reported that tube feeding was poorly tolerated. 
One study provided very low‐quality evidence that giving feed into a vein initially and then by mouth may not affect mortality but may reduce complications. However, we were surprised that this intervention was being used in people who seemed to be able to take nutrition orally. 
Increasing protein intake in an oral feed was tested in four studies. These provided low‐quality evidence of no clear effect on mortality or complications and very low‐quality evidence for a reduction in unfavourable outcome. 
Studies testing intravenous vitamin B1 and other water soluble vitamins, oral 1‐alpha‐hydroxycholecalciferol (vitamin D), high dose bolus vitamin D, different oral doses or sources of vitamin D, intravenous or oral iron, ornithine alpha‐ketoglutarate versus an isonitrogenous peptide supplement, taurine versus placebo, and a supplement with vitamins, minerals and amino acids, provided low‐ or very low‐quality evidence of no clear effect on mortality or complications, where reported. 
One study, evaluating the use of dietetic assistants to help with feeding, provided low‐quality evidence that this may reduce mortality but not the numbers of people with complications. 
