Venous cutdown versus the Seldinger technique for placement of totally implantable venous access ports 
Background 
Totally implantable venous access ports (TIVAPs) provide patients with a safe and permanent access to a vein. They are often used in patients who need continuous administration of intravenous drugs, such as those receiving chemotherapy. TIVAPs are also used when regular intravenous medications, transfusion of blood products, or parenteral nutrition needs to be given, or if regular periodic blood sampling is required. There are two methods for the insertion or implantation of a TIVAP: the surgical venous cutdown technique is an open surgical procedure where the cephalic vein is opened and accessed, and the Seldinger technique uses a percutaneous access (through the skin without having to surgically prepare the vein) of either the subclavian or the internal jugular (IJ) vein. We examined the available evidence from randomised controlled trials for the effectiveness and safety of different TIVAP techniques, comparing them in terms of success rate and complications. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We included nine studies with a total of 1253 participants in the review (current until August 2015). Five studies compared the Seldinger technique (subclavian vein) with the venous cutdown technique (cephalic vein). Two studies compared the Seldinger (IJ vein) versus the venous cutdown (cephalic vein) technique. One study compared a modified Seldinger (cephalic vein) with the venous cutdown (cephalic vein) technique, and one study compared the Seldinger (subclavian vein) with the Seldinger (IJ vein) technique. The Seldinger technique had a higher success rate than the venous cutdown technique. For the Seldinger technique, the majority of trials used the subclavian vein for venous access, with only two trials reporting use of the IJ vein. In those trials using the Seldinger technique with subclavian access, more participants experienced catheter complications than those who had been exposed to the venous cutdown technique. However, there was no difference in overall complication rates between the Seldinger and venous cutdown techniques. Comparisons between a modified Seldinger technique (using the cephalic vein) and the venous cutdown technique (also using the cephalic vein) and between the Seldinger (subclavian vein access) and Seldinger (IJ vein access) techniques were limited by small sample sizes, therefore a definitive conclusion cannot be drawn for these comparisons and further studies are recommended. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the included trials was moderate. The methods used for randomisation were inadequate in four of the nine included studies, but an analysis excluding these trials did not alter the outcome. The nature of the interventions, either venous cutdown or Seldinger techniques, meant that it was not feasible to blind the participant or personnel, therefore we judged this to be at low risk of bias. The great majority of participants in the included trials were cancer patients at tertiary centres, and the outcomes were applicable to the typical clinical scenario. For all outcomes, when comparing venous cutdown and Seldinger technique, serious imprecision was evident by wide confidence intervals in the included trials. The quality of the overall evidence was therefore downgraded from high to moderate. Due to the limited number of included studies we were unable to assess publication bias. 
