Strength training or aerobic exercise training for muscle disease
Review question 
What are the effects (benefits and harms) of strength training and aerobic exercise training in people with muscle disease? 
Background 
Strength training, which is performed to improve muscle strength and muscle endurance, or aerobic exercise programmes, which are designed to improve aerobic (cardiovascular) fitness, might optimise physical fitness and muscle strength in people with muscle disease. The number of training studies in people with muscle diseases is increasing steadily. This is an updated review that includes nine newly added studies. 
Study characteristics 
The review includes three trials of strength training in people with facioscapulohumeral muscular dystrophy (FSHD) and myotonic dystrophy (136 participants), five trials of aerobic exercise (cardiovascular training) in people with dermatomyositis and polymyositis (14 participants), Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD; 30 participants) and FSHD (111 participants), and six trials of strength training combined with aerobic exercise in people with mitochondrial myopathy (18 participants), myotonic dystrophy type I (35 participants), dermatomyositis and polymyositis (68 participants), and FSHD (16 participants). 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
The findings of this review should be interpreted with caution due to the variable quality of the included studies, variation in exercise interventions, and outcomes measured. It was not possible for participants to be blinded (unaware of whether or not they were in the exercise group). We have, at best, low confidence in the results because of the small numbers of people included in the studies, a variability in results across studies, differences in populations and interventions across studies, and some issues regarding the conduct and design of the studies, in addition to the lack of blinding. 
We have little confidence in findings that strength training has little or no effect on dynamic strength (during movement) of the elbow flexors and ankle dorsiflexors or on isometric (static contraction) strength of elbow flexors and ankle dorsiflexors in people with FSHD; and that the combination of strength training and aerobic exercise may have a positive effect on right and left knee extensor strength but no effect on right and left hip flexor strength in people with juvenile dermatomyositis. (Flexors are muscles that tend to bend the joint and extensors straighten or extend the joint). 
We have very little confidence in findings that in people with myotonic dystrophy type 1 there may be a slight improvement in isometric wrist extensor strength and little or no effect on hand grip force, pinch grip force or isometric wrist extensor strength after strength training; that participants with dermatomyositis, polymyositis and juvenile dermatomyositis may experience a positive effect of the combination of strength training and aerobic exercise on dynamic strength of right and left knee extensors; that people with dermatomyositis and polymyositis may have a positive effect of aerobic exercise training on aerobic capacity; and that there may be a slight decrease in aerobic capacity after aerobic exercise training in people with juvenile dermatomyositis. 
We found evidence that was too uncertain for conclusions to be drawn regarding the effect of strength training on shoulder muscle strength, pectoralis major muscle strength and anterior arm muscle strength in mitochondrial myopathy, the effect of aerobic exercise training in people with mitochondrial myopathy, in the effect of aerobic exercise training on maximal workload in people with FSHD, and on the number of arm and leg revolutions in a six‐minute cycle test in boys with DMD. 
We have limited or very little confidence in findings of the absence of adverse events (side effects) in most studies. Additional high‐quality studies with a high number of participants is needed. 
