Drainage tube placement after lymph gland removal from the armpit for breast cancer
Breast cancer is one of the most common malignancies in women, accounting for a large number of deaths worldwide each year. Sometimes, an essential part of breast cancer management includes an operation to remove the lymph nodes in the armpit, called an 'axillary dissection', sometimes also known as 'axillary lymphadenectomy'. This operation may be needed if the cancer has spread (metastasised) to the armpit. One consequence of removing some, or all, of these lymph nodes is that a collection of fluid called a seroma can develop in the armpit. This can be uncomfortable and may require drainage (also known as aspiration). Other complications include risks of infection, bleeding and arm lymphoedema. One strategy that is widely used to try to minimise these complications is the insertion of a plastic drainage tube into the armpit during surgery that allows any fluid collecting in the armpit to drain away. However, debate is ongoing amongst surgeons regarding the value of such drains because they can cause pain and discomfort and may delay discharge from hospital. 
This Cochrane review aims to determine whether drain tube insertion reduces complication rates or is associated with any risks or harms. We analysed seven randomised controlled trials including 960 participants that compared drain insertion with no drainage after axillary lymphadenectomy for the treatment of breast cancer. We found that the chance of getting a seroma if a drain was inserted was less than if no drain was inserted (0.46 times less likely), and that the number of aspirations required (using a needle to drain seroma fluid in the outpatient clinic) was lower (on average, 0.79 fewer per participant). These benefits must be balanced against a longer average hospital stay of 1.47 days in the drained population, although increasingly patients can be discharged with their drain in place, to be removed at a later date. Risk of infection, volume of fluid aspirated and rates of lymphoedema (arm swelling) or haematoma (bruising) did not differ between drained and undrained participants. 
