Post‐exposure prophylaxis vaccine to prevent varicella (chickenpox)
Review question 
This review assessed how useful the varicella (also known as chickenpox) vaccine is in preventing chickenpox when given to children or adults who have never been immunised or previously had chickenpox, but who receive the vaccine within a short time following exposure to a person infectious with chickenpox. Varicella is a highly contagious viral infection characterised by a widespread pustular rash, fever and generally feeling unwell. We identified three trials involving 110 healthy children who were siblings of household contacts. 
Background 
Although many cases of chickenpox are mild, complications such as secondary bacterial infection, neurological complications and other problems occur in at least 1% of cases, usually resulting in hospitalisation. The virus that causes chickenpox also remains dormant in sensory nerve roots after infection and can reactivate later in life as a painful blistering rash known as herpes zoster or shingles. 
Chickenpox can be prevented by vaccination with live attenuated varicella vaccine. However, many countries have not yet funded routine population‐based immunisation programmes and exposure to chickenpox remains commonplace. Even in highly vaccinated populations, outbreaks can occur, particularly in childcare and school settings. 
Key results 
The question of how to prevent chickenpox occurring in an adult or child who has been in contact with a person with the disease has led to trials of varicella vaccines in this setting. This review assessed published studies up to March 2014 and found that three separate trials investigated the effectiveness of giving varicella vaccine as post‐exposure prophylaxis following household exposure of non‐immune children to siblings with varicella compared to a placebo. Overall, 13 of 56 (18%) vaccine recipients developed varicella compared with 42 of 54 (78%) placebo (or no vaccine) recipients. These studies support giving varicella vaccine to a child, particularly if given within three days of contact with a chickenpox case. Although mild chickenpox may still occur in some cases, the vaccine is likely to prevent moderate to severe cases of chickenpox. 
Quality of the evidence 
The number of participants in these three trials was small and is a limitation of this review. The quality of the included studies varied, which also limits confidence in the results. There have been no trials of this type undertaken in adults, and none of the trials commented on adverse events following immunisation, such as fever or injection site reactions. 
