Routine or selective carotid artery shunting for carotid endarterectomy (and different methods of monitoring in selective shunting) 
Question 
We investigated how shunting would affect stroke, death, and other complications, and how the different monitoring methods for selective shunting would impact on these outcomes in people undergoing carotid endarterectomy under general anaesthesia. 
Background 
About 20% of strokes result from narrowing of the carotid artery (the main artery supplying blood to the brain). Carotid endarterectomy is an operation to remove this narrowing and therefore reduce the stroke risk. However, there is a 2% to 3% operative risk of causing a stroke. The use of a silicon tube, or shunt, as a temporary bypass can reduce the length of time that blood flow to the brain is interrupted during the operation. This may reduce the perioperative stroke risk but could also result in arterial wall damage and therefore increase the stroke risk. Shunt surgery falls into three categories. First, in routine shunting, the surgeon inserts a shunt in every patient. Second, in selective shunting, the surgeon only uses a shunt in patients with an inadequate blood supply to the brain following clamping; various cerebral monitoring techniques, such as ultrasound for predicting who needs a shunt, have been used in this policy. Third, in no shunting, surgeons do not employ shunts at all. 
Study characteristics 
Six trials were analysed in this updated review, involving a total of 1270 participants. Three trials compared routine shunting with no shunting, one trial compared routine shunting versus selective shunting, and another two trials compared different methods of monitoring in selective shunting. We have not yet identified any trials that compared selective shunting with no shunting. All the included trials assessed shunting used in people undergoing endarterectomy under general anaesthetic. Overall, the participant ages ranged from 40 to 89 years and there were more male than female participants. Where reported, participants were followed up for no longer than 30 days. 
Key results 
A very limited number of trials suggested that routine shunting compared to no shunting in patients undergoing carotid endarterectomy under general anaesthesia resulted in a lower stroke‐related death within 30 days of surgery, less stroke rate within 24 hours of surgery and ipsilateral rate reduction within 30 days of surgery. More trials are needed. 
