Length of stay in hospital for people with severe mental illness
Since the 1960s, in North America and most of Europe, large psychiatric hospitals have been closed and small local hospital units established. Medical opinion as to whether people with mental illness should stay in hospital for months and years or just a few weeks has changed. Care in the community has been helped by the advent of medication for people with mental illness. Consequently, in the developed world, hospital stays are now relatively short and large psychiatric hospitals or asylums have almost disappeared. However, there is still some doubt about whether short admissions are good because the person does not get institutionalised, or harmful because the causes and symptoms of the illness are not completely addressed. This is further complicated because there are patients who have short but frequent admissions (‘revolving door patients’) in contrast to others who despite treatment stay in hospital for a long time (‘new long stay patients’). 
The review aims to determine what length of stay in hospital is the most helpful and is now based on a 2012 search. Six randomised trials are included that compare short stay in hospital with either long stay in hospital or standard care. No differences were found between groups in readmission to hospital, mental state, leaving the study early, risk of death and people lost to follow‐up. There was a significant difference favouring short‐stay hospitalisation for social functioning. There was limited information that suggested that short‐stay hospitalisation does not encourage a ‘revolving door’ pattern of admission to hospital and disjointed or poor care. 
This should reassure people with mental illness coming into hospital that a short stay (of less than 28 days) means they are no more likely to be readmitted, to leave hospital abruptly, or to lose contact with services after leaving hospital than if they received long‐stay care. Short‐stay patients are also more likely to leave hospital on their planned discharge date and possibly have a greater chance of finding employment. For psychiatrists, policy makers and health professionals it is important to know that short‐stay hospitalisation does not lead to a ‘revolving door’ pattern of admission to hospital and poor or fragmented care. 
