Early birth compared with waiting for birth in babies who are thought to be coping poorly towards the end of pregnancy 
What is the issue? 
What care should be given to babies who are thought to be coping poorly towards the end of pregnancy (beyond 37 weeks)? A baby may be in this situation because the placenta is no longer functioning well and this means the baby may be short of nutrition or oxygen. We asked in this Cochrane review if it is better to induce labour or do a caesarean section (both ways of ensuring the baby is born earlier) rather than letting the pregnancy continue until labour starts by itself. 
Why is this important? 
Sometimes, when a healthy pregnant woman gets towards the end of pregnancy, there may be signs that her baby may be having difficulty coping. Some of these babies are born sick, very occasionally they do not survive, or they have problems in their later development. Several factors may indicate problems. A baby may not be growing normally and so is smaller than expected (this is termed intrauterine growth restriction ‐ IUGR). The baby may show decreased movements, which may indicate the placenta is no longer functioning well. Fetal heart monitoring (known as cardiotocography or CTG) may show up a possible problem. Ultrasound can also measure amniotic fluid and blood flow in order to assess the baby’s well‐being. 
Induction of labour or caesarean section might help these babies by taking them out of the uterus. But intervening early in this way may mean that these babies’ lungs are not mature enough to deal well with the outside world, and they might be better to continue inside the uterus. It is not clear which option is best for mothers and babies. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found three trials involving 546 pregnant women and their babies at term (search – 31 May 2015). All three trials looked at using induction of labour for an early birth. Two trials looked at babies thought to have growth restriction and one trial looked at babies thought to have a small volume of amniotic fluid (oligohydramnios). All three trials were of reasonable quality and most of the evidence comes from the largest trial which compared babies who were growth restricted. There is no information about funding sources for these trials. 
Overall, we found no major differences between these two strategies in terms of the babies’ survival, the numbers of very sick babies nor in the numbers of babies with problems in development. 
We looked at many other outcomes, too, including how many caesarean sections there were, and how many operative vaginal births (with forceps or ventouse). However, we cannot be sure there are no real major differences because the numbers of women and babies included were too small. There were more inductions of labour in the early birth group. 
What does this mean? 
There is not enough evidence from trials to guide clinical practice regarding earlier birth versus waiting for birth in healthy women towards the end of pregnancy who are carrying babies who may be coping poorly. Further large trials are needed. We also need research into better tests to identify babies who are not coping well towards the end of pregnancy. Women should discuss their specific circumstances with their caregivers when coming to a decision. 
