How effective is pelvic floor muscle training undertaken during pregnancy or after birth for preventing or treating incontinence? 
Review question 
To assess whether performing pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) during pregnancy or after birth reduces incontinence. 
Background 
More than one‐third of women experience unintentional (involuntary) loss of urine (urinary incontinence) in the second and third trimesters of pregnancy, and about one‐third leak urine in the first three months after giving birth. About one‐quarter of women have some involuntary loss of flatus (wind) or faeces (anal incontinence) in late pregnancy, and one‐fifth leak flatus or faeces one year after birth. Managing incontinence after pregnancy is not only important for the individuals themselves but can also have considerable costs to individuals and for healthcare systems. 
PFMT is commonly recommended by health professionals during pregnancy and after birth to prevent and treat incontinence. The muscles are strengthened and kept strong with regular PFMT. Muscles are contracted several times in a row, more than once a day, several days a week and continued indefinitely. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence is current to 7 August 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included 46 trials involving 10,832 women from 21 countries. The studies included pregnant women or women who had delivered their baby within the last three months, and who reported leakage of urine, faeces, both urine or faeces, or no leakage. They were allocated randomly to receive PFMT (either to try to prevent incontinence or as a treatment for incontinence) or not, and the effects were compared. 
Study funding sources 
Twenty‐five studies were publicly funded, one of which received grants from both public and private sources. Three studies received no funding and 18 did not declare their funding sources. 
Key results 
Pregnant women without urine leakage who did PFMT to prevent leakage: women probably report less urine leakage in late pregnancy and the risk is slightly less at three to six months after childbirth. There was not enough information to determine whether these effects continued beyond the first year after the baby's birth. 
Women with urine leakage, pregnant or after birth, who did PFMT as a treatment: there is no evidence that doing PFMT during pregnancy reduced leakage in late pregnancy or in the year following childbirth. 
Women with or without urine leakage (mixed group), pregnant or after birth, who did PFMT to either prevent or treat leakage: women who began exercising during pregnancy probably have slightly less leakage in late pregnancy which may continue up to six months after birth. There is no evidence of effect at one year following birth. For women who started exercising after delivery, the effect on leakage one year after birth was uncertain. 
