Drug management for acute tonic‐clonic convulsions (fits), including convulsive status epilepticus in children 
Review question 
This review aimed to assess whether the use of different anticonvulsant drugs, given by different routes of administration, have an impact on how quickly an acute tonic‐clonic‐convulsion (fit) can be stopped. The review also investigated whether different anticonvulsant drugs were accompanied by less frequent or different serious side effects. 
Background 
Tonic‐clonic convulsions and convulsive status epilepticus are medical emergencies. In children, the first anticonvulsant drug is usually given in the Accident and Emergency (A&E) Department of a hospital. This drug may be administered in a number of ways, including into a vein (intravenously), into the mouth and between the cheeks (buccally), into the nostrils (intranasally) or into the rectum (rectally). The first‐choice drug should be effective, work rapidly and not be associated with any serious adverse effects. Research is important to try and find the most effective and the safest anticonvulsant drug in this clinical situation. 
Study characteristics 
We carried out a review of all available and relevant evidence on the effectiveness and safety of anticonvulsant drugs used in the first‐line treatment of tonic‐clonic convulsions in children who attended hospital A&E departments. This review examined data from 18 randomised controlled trials (RCTs); RCTs provide the most reliable evidence. They investigated the use of different anticonvulsant drugs and given by different routes. 
Key Results 
The review included 18 RCTs involving 2199 children, and investigated many different anticonvulsant drugs, doses of the drugs and routes of administration of the drugs. The studies also had some differences in their designs, their settings and the populations of children included, in terms of their ages and their clinical situation (such as how long their convulsion had been going on when they were recruited into the trial). 
Analysis of two trials found no clear evidence of a different effect between intravenous lorazepam and intravenous diazepam in stopping a tonic‐clonic convulsion taken to an Emergency Department. There is uncertainty about whether buccal midazolam is more effective than rectal diazepam as the first management of a tonic‐clonic convulsion or convulsive status epilepticus when intravenous access is unavailable. There is no good evidence that the intranasal route is as effective as the intravenous route. Consequently there is no evidence that it can be used as an alternative route of administration. 
