Crisis intervention for people with severe mental illnesses
The move from hospital to community‐based care can be a frightening and difficult experience for people with severe mental illness (SMI). People with mental health problems may not have networks of support such as family, friends and carers. They often have no one they know personally to help them when they go home. To complicate matters, people with SMI can have critical downturns in their mental health creating a revolving‐door of care, where service users are discharged from hospital when considered stable and well, only to go back into hospital again when their mental health becomes worse during an acute episode or crisis. Crisis‐intervention and homecare packages have been developed as a possible solution to these problems. 
Crisis care, where support is provided during a crisis for service users, either in their home or a community setting, was found by this review to provide a package of support that was worthwhile, acceptable and less expensive than standard care. Furthermore, crisis care avoided repeat admission to hospital; improved the mental state of services users more than standard care; was more acceptable and satisfactory to service users and placed less burden on families and carers. There were no differences in death rates between crisis intervention and standard care. 
The review, however, looks at only eight studies. The methods of most of these studies were considered poor and there was no definitive description of crisis intervention or crisis care for studies included before 2006, meaning there was a lack of focus on crisis care in its pure form. Most studies excluded service users with alcohol or drug misuse, and those who were a danger of being harmful to themselves or others. The authors of the review suggest more studies are needed to create a stronger evidence base. Crisis care may be currently delivered without sound and good quality evidence. For example, no data or information were available on carer input, concordance or the willingness of service users to take medication and the number of relapses experienced by service users. Finally, despite reports of staff 'burn‐out', staff satisfaction with crisis care was not assessed. 
This plain language summary has been prepared by Ben Gray, Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation (. http://mcpin.org/). 
