Treatments for acute guttate psoriasis, excluding drugs aimed at treating infection caused by Streptococcus bacteria 
Review question 
The aim of this review was to find out how well different non‐antistreptococcal treatments (i.e. drugs not aimed at eradicating streptococcal infection) work for treating acute guttate psoriasis or an acute guttate flare of chronic psoriasis in adults and children, and how safe they are when compared against placebo (an identical but inactive treatment) or another treatment. This was important because there is a lack of information and evidence about the best way to treat guttate psoriasis. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found one study. 
Background 
Psoriasis is a chronic skin disease characterised by patches of red, flaky skin covered with scales (known as plaques). Approximately 2% of people have psoriasis. Guttate psoriasis is a type of psoriasis that is characterised by smaller lesions and is more common in children and young people. Treatments for guttate psoriasis aim to clear the skin of lesions for as long as possible, and include topical (applied to the skin) or oral (taken by mouth) medicines; phototherapy (i.e. ultraviolet light therapy); and biological medicines (whereby a living organism creates the active substance). It is not known which of these treatments work best at clearing lesions in guttate psoriasis and whether they are safe. 
Study characteristics 
We found one relevant study that compared the effects of giving injections into the vein of two different lipid (fat) emulsions twice daily for 10 days: one emulsion (two or more liquids that are often unmixable) was derived from fish oil, and the other was derived from soya oil. Participants were followed for a total of 40 days. The study was conducted in Germany in 21 adults (18 men and 3 women) aged 21 to 65 years, with a mean of involved skin surface of 25%, who were in hospital with acute guttate psoriasis. The study was funded by the company that produces the oil emulsions. 
