Are anti‐seizure medications effective and safe treatments for Lennox‐Gastaut syndrome?
Why is this question important? 
Lennox‐Gastaut syndrome (LGS) is a severe type of epilepsy that mainly affects children. The main symptom in LGS is frequent and multiple types of seizures. Seizures are caused by sudden and uncontrolled surges of abnormal electrical activity in the brain. The seizures are difficult to treat with anti‐seizure medications (ASMs). Many different ASMs are given to try and stop the seizures. Two or three ASMs are often given at the same time, which is known as polypharmacy. It is unclear which medications are most effective. Most people with LGS also have learning and behavioural difficulties. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
We searched the medical literature for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) analysing the effects of anti‐seizure medications (ASMs) for treating LGS. We included any RCT that compared ASMs, whether as monotherapy or add‐on (adjunctive) therapy, with placebo (pretend treatment), no treatment or another kind of treatment. We then compared the results of the RCTs we found, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. We rated our confidence in the 'certainty' of evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
Study characteristics 
This review included 11 trials (1277 participants, including children, adolescents and adults). The trials lasted between about 11 weeks and 112 weeks after randomisation. None of the included trials compared one ASM on its own with another treatment. Two trials compared add‐on cannabidiol regimens (cannabis‐based medicine) with add‐on placebo regimens (396 children, adolescents and adults ). One trial compared an add‐on cinromide regimen with an add‐on placebo regimen (56 children and adolescents only). One trial compared an add‐on clobazam regimen with an add‐on placebo regimen (238 participants). One trial compared an add‐on felbamate regimen with an add‐on placebo regimen (73 participants). Two trials compared add‐on lamotrigine regimens with add‐on placebo regimens (186 participants). Two trials compared add‐on rufinamide regimens with add‐on placebo regimens (197 participants). One trial compared an add‐on rufinamide regimen with another ASM regimen (37 participants). One trial compared an add‐on topiramate regimen with an add‐on placebo regimen (98 participants). 
Most of the evidence in this review related to people from middle‐ or high‐income countries and, where reported, participants of white ethnicity. 
Results and certainty of the evidence 
We found high‐certainty evidence that add‐on lamotrigine increased the number of participants with at least 50% reduction in the average number of reported seizures. We also found low‐certainty evidence that add‐on lamotrigine may have reduced the number of participants with adverse events leading to study discontinuation when compared to add‐on placebo. 
