Early developmental intervention programmes provided post hospital discharge to prevent motor and cognitive impairment in preterm infants 
Review question: In preterm infants, do early developmental intervention programmes provided post hospital discharge compared with standard medical follow‐up better improve cognitive and motor development at infancy (zero to < three years), preschool age (three to < five years), school age (five to < 18 years) and adulthood (≥ 18 years)? 
Background: Preterm infants (babies born before 37 weeks) are at risk for developmental problems, including cognitive and motor delays. Cognitive development refers to thinking and learning abilities, and motor development refers to the ways children move, such as by sitting, crawling and walking. Early developmental interventions aim to reduce cognitive and motor problems; however, the benefits of these programmes are not clear. 
Study characteristics: Twenty‐five studies met the inclusion criteria (3615 randomly assigned participants). Only 12 of these studies were randomised controlled trials with appropriate allocation concealment. Variability was noted with regard to focus and intensity of the intervention, participant characteristics and length of follow‐up. 
Key findings: Evidence suggests that early developmental interventions improve cognitive outcomes up to preschool age. Evidence also indicates that early developmental interventions improve motor outcomes during infancy; however, these effects are small. Little evidence was found of an effect on long‐term cognitive or motor outcomes (up to school age). The early developmental intervention programmes described in this review had to begin within the first 12 months of life, had to focus on the parent‐infant relationship and/or infant development and, although they could begin while the baby was still in hospital, had to include a component that was delivered post discharge from hospital. The early developmental intervention programmes included in this review vary by content and by frequency and focus of the intervention. 
