Home‐based specimen collection in the management of chlamydia and gonorrhoea infections
Review question: Cochrane authors reviewed evidence about the effects of self‐collected specimens at home compared with specimens collected at clinic on the clinical management of chlamydia and gonorrhoea infections. 
Background: Chlamydia and gonorrhoea are common sexually transmitted infections (STI). Management of these infections might be easier to achieve if people can collect specimens at home and send or take them to a laboratory, rather than having to go to a clinic. 
Search date: This evidence is up to May 2015. 
Study characteristics: We searched the available literature for trials in which people were invited either to collect specimens at home or to attend a clinic for collection of specimens. We found 10 relevant trials in total. Three trials (including 1566 people) provided data to assess the proportion of people who completed testing, diagnosis and treatment. All trials gave information about the percentages of people who took self‐collected specimens for detection of chlamydia and gonorrhoea infections at home and those who took the test at a clinic. Nine studies reported percentages related to positive test results. 
Funding sources: Trials in this review were funded by governmental or non‐governmental organisations. 
Key results: There was no evidence of a difference between home‐based and clinic‐based specimen collection in the proportion of people who completed testing, diagnosis and treatment. In the home‐based group 45 infections were detected and treated in a total of 778 people invited to collect specimens at home. In the clinic‐based group 51 infections were detected and treated in a total of 788 people invited to attend a clinic. We could not combine data from individual studies looking at the number of participants tested because the proportions varied widely. A lower number of participants diagnosed in the home‐based compared with the clinic‐based group was documented. The potential harms of testing with home‐collected specimens were not evaluated in any trial. 
Quality of the evidence: The GRADE quality for the main outcomes was moderate (index case management, positive test prevalence) or low (proportion of individuals tested). The quality of evidence was downgraded because of methodological limitations in the studies. 
Conclusions: Home‐based specimen collection could result in similar levels of index case management for Chlamydia trachomatis or Neisseria gonorrhoeae infection when compared with clinic‐based specimen collection. The safety of home‐based specimen collection compared with clinic‐based specimen collection have not been evaluated. 
