Can cognitive behavioural therapy reduce harmful sexual behaviour in adolescents?
Background 
About one out of every 1000 young people aged 12 to 17 years old engages in harmful sexual behaviour like making other children engage in sexual activities. Some are convicted of a sexual offence. Many treatment programmes include cognitive‐behavioural techniques, tailored to individual needs. Cognitive‐behavioural therapy (CBT) is based on the theory that changing the way people think helps change behaviour. It has been used for adults, but it is not known if it works for adolescents with harmful sexual behaviour. 
Review question 
Is CBT better at reducing adolescent harmful sexual behaviour than no treatment or alternative treatment? We looked at evidence about the effect of CBT on offending rates and adverse events such as self‐harm. We also examined participants' emotional and psychological well‐being, as well as their sexual attitudes and behaviour. 
Search date 
In June 2019, we searched many databases for randomised controlled trials comparing CBT to no treatment or other treatments. Randomised controlled trials use a random method (like tossing a coin) to decide whether people get different treatments or no treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We found four small studies including a total of 115 young men exhibiting harmful sexual behaviour. In two studies, participants were aged 12 to 18 years old. In the other two studies the male participants were simply described as "adolescents". 
Three studies were conducted in the USA and one in South Africa. Studies were short. One lasted two months; two lasted three months; one lasted six months. We do not know who funded these studies. 
Two studies (39 participants) compared CBT to no treatment or treatment as usual. One study (16 participants) compared CBT to a sexual education programme. One study compared CBT (19 participants) with mode deactivation therapy (explicit, systematic, goal‐oriented approach to address problematic emotions, behaviours and thoughts) (21 participants) and social skills training (social skills development and role playing) (20 participants). In three studies, CBT was delivered in a residential setting by someone working there. In the fourth, it was provided in community by a licensed therapist studying for a PhD. 
Key results 
One study (59 participants) examined whether CBT reduced harmful sexual behaviour, or made participants less likely to offend. It provided very low‐certainty evidence showing CBT reduced sexual aggression at post‐intervention. This was similar to other treatments of mode deactivation therapy and social skills training. No studies examined whether it had unintended consequences such as self‐harm. 
One study (59 participants) found little to no difference in how CBT improved psychological well‐being compared with other treatments (very low‐certainty evidence). One study (18 participants) showed CBT meant the young men understood how their behaviour had effected their victims, compared to the no‐treatment group (very low‐certainty evidence). One study (21 participants) measured this, but reported no usable data. 
Two studies examined whether CBT improved the kind of thinking associated with harmful sexual behaviour (sexual attitudes and behaviour). One of these (21 participants) compared CBT with treatment as usual. It found no evidence that it made a difference. Another study (16 participants) compared CBT with sexual education. It found CBT improved some types of cognitive distortions. One study (18 participants) reported no significant difference between CBT and receiving no treatment on general cognitive distortions about sexual behaviour (very low‐certainty evidence). 
Certainty of the evidence 
We cannot tell whether CBT reduces harmful sexual behaviour in male adolescents. The four studies had very small sample sizes. Overall, there is very low‐certainty evidence that group‐based CBT may improve victim empathy compared to no treatment, and may improve cognitive distortions compared to sexual education, but not treatment as usual. The very low‐certainty of this evidence means that the results are likely to change when further studies are carried out. No studies looked at the impact of CBT on girls with harmful sexual behaviour. It was difficult to assess how well the studies were conducted. Available reports did not provide enough information or were rated at high risk of bias in some sections. More, better quality randomised controlled trials of individual and group‐based CBT are needed, particularly outside North America. Evaluations need to also include more diverse participants. 
