Interventions for tophi in gout
Background 
Gout is caused by urate crystals forming within or around joints.
Inflammation can lead to pain, redness, warmth and swelling of the affected joints, making it difficult to touch or move. Some of the reasons why people develop gout include their genetic makeup, being overweight, ingesting certain medications (e.g. cyclosporine), impaired kidney function and lifestyle habits such as drinking excessive amounts of alcohol and sugar sweetened drinks. 
Tophi are nodules that develop in people with uncontrolled chronic gout. Tophi can become infected, cause pain and lead to reduced function. Tophi can be treated with urate‐lowering drugs (e.g. benzbromarone, probenecid, allopurinol, febuxostat, pegloticase, lesinurad), surgical removal or other interventions. 
Study characteristics 
This is a summary of a Cochrane Review on interventions for the management of tophi. The literature was searched up to 28 August 2020. We reported five studies on pharmacological interventions. Participants were from a wide range of countries, including the USA, Canada, Mexico, South Africa, Australia, New Zealand, and locations in Europe. All studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
Key results 
Comparing biweekly pegloticase to placebo (fake treatment) (1 study; 79 participants) 
Resolution of tophi 
33 more people out of 100 had resolution of one or more tophi after six months' treatment with pegloticase biweekly (every 2 weeks) compared with placebo (16% better to 50% better). 
40 out of 100 people had tophi resolution with pegloticase.
7 out of 100 people had tophi resolution with placebo.
Total adverse events: 
1 more person out of 100 had an adverse event with pegloticase compared with placebo (9% fewer to 7% more). 
95 out of 100 people had an adverse event with pegloticase.
94 out of 100 people had an adverse event with placebo.
Comparing monthly pegloticase to placebo (1 study; 79 participants) 
Resolution of tophi 
14 more people out of 100 had resolution of one or more tophi after six months' treatment with pegloticase monthly compared with placebo (1% worse to 29% better). 
