Supervised exercise therapy vs home‐based exercise therapy vs walking advice for patients with leg pain while walking (intermittent claudication) 
Background 
Intermittent claudication is a cramping leg pain that occurs during walking and is relieved by a short period of rest. It is caused by inadequate blood flow to the muscles of the leg due to atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). Exercise therapy provides significant symptomatic benefit for patients with intermittent claudication. Patients are recommended to walk at least three times a week by themselves. However, they can also participate in a formal supervised exercise program that involves walking on a treadmill or complete a structured home‐based exercise program with an observation component (e.g., exercise logbooks, pedometers). 
Study characteristics and key results 
We included 21 trials in which a total of 1400 participants with intermittent claudication (65% male, mean age 66 years) had been assigned to supervised exercise therapy, home‐based exercise therapy, or walking advice (search last run December 2016). The overall methodological quality of included trials was moderate to good. However, some trials had enrolled only small numbers of participants. Trials lasted from six weeks to two years. 
This review shows that patients participating in a supervised exercise program improve their walking ability to a greater extent than those completing a home‐based exercise program or just following walking advice. After three months, the maximal walking distance for participants following the supervised exercise program was 120 or 210 meters farther than the maximal walking distance for those who followed a home‐based exercise program or received walking advice, respectively. To put these increases in context, a US football field is roughly 90 meters (or 100 yards) long. Before participating in the exercise program, the maximal walking distance of participants was 290 meters with a pain‐free walking distance of 140 meters, so this improvement is likely to have a positive impact on their lives. Results of the home‐based exercise program were similar to those reported for walking advice. 
