Physical activity to improve exercise capacity in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether physical activity interventions (including exercise) have any effect on exercise capacity, health‐related quality of life and lung function in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). This is an update of a previously published review. 
Background 
CF affects many systems in the body, but mainly the lungs. It causes shortness of breath and limits the amount of exercise people with CF can tolerate. The progress of lung disease leads to a low ability to exercise and to physical inactivity, which in turn affects health and health‐related quality of life. We looked for studies where people with CF engaged in a physical activity intervention (including endurance‐type activities such as walking, jogging, swimming and cycling; or resistance training; or combinations of both) compared to a control group with no intervention (usual care). 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 3 March 2022.
Study characteristics 
We included 24 studies (875 participants) in this review. The number of people in each study ranged from nine to 117. Some studies included only children, others only adults, and some both children and adults. The studies included people with a wide range of disease severity. The studies used differing levels of supervision in their active training programmes: in 12 studies, participants were supervised; in 11 studies, participants were partially supervised; and in one study, participants were not supervised at all. The active training programme lasted up to and including six months in 14 studies, and longer than six months in the remaining 10 studies. Of the 24 included studies, seven added on a follow‐up period (when all participants reverted to usual care, but were still allowed to exercise if they wished). The quality of the included studies varied widely. 
Key results 
This systematic review shows that physical activity interventions for longer than six months probably improve exercise capacity in people with CF. When compared with no activity, physical activity interventions may make little or no difference to lung function and health‐related quality of life. 
