Treatment for the first time men and women get genital herpes (first‐episode genital herpes) 
Review question  The aim of this research was to look at the positive and adverse effects of treatments, on the duration of symptoms, in people who have their first episode of genital herpes. 
Background  Genital herpes is caused by the herpes simplex virus (HSV) that is primarily sexually transmitted (skin‐to‐skin contact). First‐episode genital herpes is the first time a person experiences the symptoms of genital herpes. The main feature of genital herpes are painful skin lesions. Treatment is based around viral suppression in order to decrease the length and severity of the symptoms. 
Study characteristics We included 26 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) trials with 2084 participants that looked at treatments for first‐episode genital herpes versus placebo or another treatment. The trials all included people who were having their first episode of genital herpes and were conducted in various countries around the world. Three of the trials included only women, and in all the trials the participants had had symptoms for eight days or less. Fifteen of the 26 trials were funded by a pharmaceutical company.  Key results  The evidence is current to April 2016. The evidence shows that oral and intravenous acyclovir may be effective in reducing the number of days of symptoms in someone with first‐episode genital herpes. Oral valaciclovir showed a similar length of symptom duration as acyclovir. We did not find enough evidence to support the use of topical treatments. There was also no evidence that any of the treatments reduced the time between episodes for people with genital herpes. The evidence presented here is mostly of low quality. The studies included were mainly conducted in the 1980s and at this time the brief way studies were reported does not allow us to adequately judge the quality of the included studies.  Quality of the evidence  The evidence provided by this review is of low quality. Although there are 26 included studies, the meta‐analyses created in this review at the most, had three included studies. This was mainly due to the low number of studies that looked at each different type of antiviral. It was also unclear as to how well the included studies were conducted, as the methods for each of the individual studies did not report enough detail to judge each study's quality, inconsistence and this also affected the overall quality of the review. 
