Fresh versus frozen embryo transfers for assisted reproduction
Review question 
Is a freeze‐all strategy in IVF and ICSI treatments safe and effective in comparison to conventional IVF and ICSI treatment? 
Background 
Conventionally, in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatments consist of a fresh embryo transfer directly after ovarian hyperstimulation, which is used in order to retrieve oocytes in the IVF/ICSI procedure. In the conventional IVF/ICSI treatment fresh embryo transfer is possibly followed by one or more frozen embryo transfers in subsequent cycles when enough embryos are available. Alternatively, one can opt to 'freeze all' suitable embryos, and transfer frozen embryos in subsequent cycles only, which is also known as the 'freeze all' strategy. In the "freeze all" strategy all embryos are frozen to be transferred at later time point when the ovaries are not stimulated. Therefore, this method could reduce the risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS, an overreaction to fertility drugs) as OHSS is more severe when pregnancy occurs. Furthermore, studies have suggested that a woman's hormonal response to fertility drugs could affect the lining of the womb making it difficult for an embryo to implant. Thus, it could be beneficial to freeze the embryos and transfer them later when the lining of the womb is not affected by fertility drugs. 
In the past decade, an increasing number of clinics have applied the 'freeze all' strategy as a standard treatment strategy in their practice. In practice, the 'freeze all' strategy and the conventional strategy can vary technically. 
We compared the effectiveness and safety of these treatment strategies in women undergoing assisted reproductive technology. 
Study characteristics 
We examined all research published in the scientific literature up to 23 September 2020. 
We included 15 randomised controlled trials (experiments where each person has an equal chance of being chosen to receive the treatment or a comparator) in the review. We were able to combine and analyse the results of eight trials, with a total of 4712 women.  
