Treatments for erosive lichen planus affecting mucosal sites
Erosive lichen planus (ELP) is a condition that affects the mouth, oesophagus (food pipe or gullet), and anogenital region. It is caused by an over‐active immune system. It is often more painful and debilitating than the non‐erosive types of lichen planus. Depending on the site involved, affected individuals may experience pain, and difficulty eating; passing urine; or having sexual intercourse. Treatment is difficult and aimed at controlling symptoms, rather than cure. Several creams and tablets have been used with varying results. 
This review looked at the effectiveness of treatments for ELP and included 15 studies, with 473 participants with ELP. All involved oral, but not genital, disease. Many studies were excluded either because they were not randomised controlled trials (where participants are divided into two groups at random) or because they recruited participants with all types of lichen planus, rather than just the erosive subtypes. All of these studies recruited small numbers of participants (12 to 94) and used a variety of different assessment methods and timings; hence, it was not possible to combine or compare results between studies directly. 
We found only weak evidence for the effectiveness of any of the treatments for oral ELP. None of the studies involved genital or oesophageal disease; hence, no evidence was found for the treatment of these conditions. One small study found that 0.025% clobetasol propionate (a very potent topical steroid) administered as a spray significantly reduced pain when compared to ointment. In another study, a significant difference in pain was seen in the small subgroup of 11 ELP participants, favouring ciclosporin solution over 0.1% triamcinolone acetonide in orabase (a potent topical steroid). In a study involving 45 ELP participants, aloe vera gel was 6 times more likely to result in at least a 50% improvement in pain symptoms compared to placebo. In a study involving a small subgroup of 8 ELP participants, a significant difference was seen for an improvement in the severity of the disease in favour of the ciclosporin group when compared to the vehicle. 
