Blood and urine tests for the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis (sudden inflammation of pancreas) 
Background 
The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen (tummy) that secretes several digestive enzymes (substances that break down the food we eat) into the pancreatic ductal system, which empties into the small bowel. The pancreas also contains the islets of Langerhans, which secrete several hormones such as insulin (which helps regulate blood sugar). Acute pancreatitis is sudden inflammation of the pancreas, which can lead to damage of the heart, lungs, and kidneys and cause them to fail. Acute pancreatitis usually manifests as upper abdominal pain radiating to the back. However, there are several potential causes of upper abdominal pain. It is important to determine if someone with abdominal pain has acute pancreatitis or another illness in order to start appropriate treatment. Blood tests such as serum amylase and serum lipase, as well as urine tests such as urinary trypsinogen‐2 and urinary amylase, can be used to determine if someone with abdominal pain has acute pancreatitis. It is usually the case that a patient is considered to have acute pancreatitis only when amylase or lipase levels are three times the upper limit of normal. With regard to urinary trypsinogen‐2, a level of more than 50 ng/mL of trypsinogen‐2 in the urine is considered an indication of acute pancreatitis. With regard to urinary amylase, there is no clear‐cut level beyond which someone with abdominal pain is considered to have acute pancreatitis. At present it is unclear whether these tests are equally effective or if one of the tests is better than the other in the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis in people with sudden‐onset abdominal pain. We determined to resolve this question by performing a literature search for studies reporting the accuracy of the above mentioned blood and urine tests. We included studies reported until 20 March 2017. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 10 studies reporting information on 5056 people with abdominal pain that started suddenly. The studies included pancreatitis due to all causes. 
Quality of evidence 
All of the studies were of unclear or low methodological quality, which may result in arriving at false conclusions. We excluded the study that contributed approximately two‐thirds of the participants included in this review from the results of the analysis presented below due to concerns about whether the participants included in the study are typical of those seen in the emergency department. 
Key results 
The accuracy of serum amylase, serum lipase, and urinary trypsinogen‐2 in making the diagnosis of acute pancreatitis was similar. About a quarter of people with acute pancreatitis fail to be diagnosed as having acute pancreatitis with these tests. The patient should be admitted and treated as having acute pancreatitis, even if these tests are normal, if there is a suspicion of acute pancreatitis. As about 1 in 10 patients without acute pancreatitis may be wrongly diagnosed as having acute pancreatitis with these tests, it is important to consider other conditions that require urgent surgery, even if these tests are abnormal. The diagnostic performance of these tests decreases even further with the progression of time, and additional investigations should be performed if there is a suspicion of acute pancreatitis. 
