Phyllanthus species versus antiviral drugs for chronic hepatitis B virus infection
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection causes significant mortality, morbidity, and it is an economic burden worldwide. Although the current approved therapies show beneficial effects, response to treatment is not satisfactory, patients are at high risk of developing viral resistance, and serious adverse events occur. The objective of this review was to evaluate the benefits and harms of phyllanthus species compared with commonly used antiviral drugs for patients with chronic HBV infection. In a previous Cochrane Hepato‐Biliary Group systematic review we have compared phyllanthus species versus placebo or no intervention. In that review, we were unable to find convincing evidence to support the use of phyllanthus species for patients with chronic hepatitis B. 
The findings of this review are based on five randomised clinical trials with 290 patients. Phyllanthus was tested versus antiviral drugs, including lamivudine, interferon alpha, thymosin, or thymosin alpha 1 for three months to 12 months. The primary findings of this review are that phyllanthus seemed to have a superior effect on clearance of serum HBeAg at the end of treatment in conventional meta‐analysis, but not when trial sequential analysis was applied. Phyllanthus had no significant effect on clearance of serum HBsAg, serum HBV DNA, or HBeAg seroconversion when compared with antiviral drugs. No data were identified on mortality or morbidity, adverse events, quality of life, or liver histology. However, the findings in our review are inconclusive due to the small numbers of patients and outcomes, risk of bias, and the study design. We need more randomised trials to confirm or reject the potential effects of phyllanthus. We advocate that phyllanthus is primarily assessed against placebo. This can be done in randomised clinical trials in which all patients receive antiviral drugs that are known to offer more benefit than harm and the patients are then randomised to phyllanthus versus placebo. If the effect of phyllanthus versus placebo is unequivocally demonstrated in such trials, it may be prudent to assess the effects of phyllanthus versus other antiviral drugs superior to placebo in such trials. The quality of trials regarding conduct and report should also be taken into account. 
