Low vision rehabilitation for better quality of life in visually impaired adults
What was the aim of the review? The aim of this review was to find out if low vision rehabilitation can improve quality of life (QOL) for vision impaired people. Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 44 studies. 
Key messages  Low vision rehabilitation does not appear to have an important impact on health‐related QOL however the evidence is very low‐certainty. There is low‐certainty evidence that some low vision rehabilitation interventions, particularly psychological therapies and methods of enhancing vision, may improve vision‐related QOL in people with sight loss compared to usual care. 
What was studied in the review? A person who is vision impaired has problems with their eyesight. If the vision loss cannot be corrected by glasses or contact lenses, or otherwise treated, then low vision rehabilitation may help to improve quality of life for people with vision impairment. 
There are different types of low vision rehabilitation and these include:
• Psychological therapies and group programmes to help people adapt to permanent vision loss and improve well‐being. • Methods of enhancing vision such as teaching the use of magnifying devices, or other technologies, or teaching skills to improve the use of residual vision in daily life. • Multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes, which may include the use of magnifying devices and psychological therapies, as well as other services, including at patients’ homes. • Other less common types of rehabilitation services such as balance training or home safety programs. 
What were the main results of the review? Cochrane Review authors identified 44 studies of low vision rehabilitation and QOL. 
Most of these studies took place in vision rehabilitation services in high‐income countries. Many of the participants in these studies were older and had a diagnosis of macular degeneration. The studies considered psychological therapies and group programmes, methods of enhancing vision as well as multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes. In these studies, vision impaired people completed questionnaires about their general health, their vision, or other aspects of well‐being. 
Compared to people with vision loss who received no low vision rehabilitation:
• People with vision loss receiving psychological therapies and/or group programmes may experience: 
⇒ no improvement in health‐related QOL (very low‐certainty); ⇒ some improvement in vision‐related QOL (low‐certainty). 
• People with vision loss receiving methods of enhancing vision may experience:
⇒ some improvement in vision‐related QOL (very low‐certainty); ⇒ (there were no data available on health‐related QOL). 
• People with vision loss receiving a multidisciplinary rehabilitation programme may experience: 
⇒ little or no improvement in health‐related QOL (very low‐certainty); ⇒ some improvement in vision‐related QOL, particularly if an intensive programme is used (very low‐certainty). 
Compared to people with vision loss who received usual care:
• People with vision loss receiving psychological therapies and/or group programmes may experience: 
⇒ little or no improvement in either health‐related QOL (very low‐certainty) or vision‐related QOL (low‐certainty). 
• people with vision loss receiving methods of enhancing vision may experience:
⇒ little or no improvement in health‐related QOL (very low‐certainty); ⇒ some improvement in vision‐related QOL (moderate‐certainty). 
• People with vision loss receiving a multidisciplinary rehabilitation programme may experience: 
⇒ little or no improvement in either health‐related QOL (very low‐certainty) or vision‐related QOL (low‐certainty). 
There was some evidence that psychological therapies had a positive impact on self‐esteem (very low‐certainty) and depression (moderate‐certainty evidence) 
There was no evidence to suggest any harms (adverse effects) of rehabilitation but data were limited. 
How up‐to‐date is the review? Cochrane Review authors searched for studies published up to 18 September 2019. 
