Tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy versus no surgery for obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing in children 
Review question 
This review compared the benefits and harms of surgical removal of the tonsils (tonsillectomy) with or without removal of the adenoids (adenoidectomy) against non‐surgical management in children with disturbed sleep caused by breathing problems due to blockage of the upper airways (called obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing; oSDB). We included any studies in which children were randomly allocated to surgery or no surgery published up to March 2015. 
Background 
oSDB can occur in both children and adults. It ranges in severity from simple snoring to obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS), where episodes of complete blockage of the upper airways and restricted breathing can cause oxygen levels in the blood to drop, waking the child from sleep. Enlargement of the tonsils and adenoids is thought to be the most common cause in children. As such, tonsillectomy with or without adenoidectomy ((adeno)tonsillectomy) is considered a valuable first‐line treatment for most children. 
Study characteristics 
We included three studies, with a total of 562 children. Two were at moderate to high risk and one at low risk of bias. We did not combine the results of the studies because the trials differed substantially; they evaluated three different groups of children: those with mild to moderate OSAS (453 children aged five to nine years; CHAT trial), those who had symptoms and signs suggestive of oSDB (29 children aged two to 14 years; Goldstein) and children with Down syndrome or mucopolysaccharidosis and mild to moderate OSAS (80 children aged six to 12 years; Sudarsan). The studies compared: adenotonsillectomy versus no surgery (CHAT trial and Goldstein) or adenotonsillectomy versus a breathing mask (continuous positive airway pressure; CPAP) during sleep (Sudarsan). 
Key results 
In the largest trial with lowest risk of bias (CHAT trial), at seven months, mean scores for disease‐specific quality of life and/or symptoms were lower (meaning better quality of life or fewer symptoms) in children receiving adenotonsillectomy than in those managed by watchful waiting. 
In the Sudarsan trial, the mean OSAS quality of life score at 12 months did not differ significantly between the adenotonsillectomy and CPAP groups. The mean modified Epworth Sleepiness Scale score did not differ at six months, but was lower in the surgery group at 12 months. 
Adverse events 
In the CHAT trial, 15 children experienced a serious adverse event: 6/194 (3%) in the adenotonsillectomy group and 9/203 (4%) in the control group. No major complications were reported by Goldstein. In the Sudarsan trial, 2/37 children (5%) developed a postoperative bleed in the surgery group and 1/36 (3%) in the CPAP group developed a rash due to the breathing mask. 
Secondary outcomes 
In the CHAT trial, at seven months, mean scores for general quality of life were higher in children receiving adenotonsillectomy than those managed by watchful waiting. 
In the CHAT trial, at seven months, more children in the surgery group had normalisation of overnight sleep study findings than those assigned to watchful waiting. At six months, sleep study recordings were similar between groups in the Goldstein trial and resolution of OSAS based on overnight sleep study findings did not significantly differ between the adenotonsillectomy and CPAP groups in the Sudarsan trial. 
In the CHAT trial, at seven months, neurocognitive performance and attention and executive function scores were similar in both groups. 
In the CHAT trial, at seven months, mean scores for caregiver‐reported ratings of behaviour were lower (meaning better behaviour) in children receiving adenotonsillectomy than in those managed by watchful waiting. However, teacher‐reported ratings of behaviour did not significantly differ. 
