Drugs for discoid lupus erythematosus
Background 
Discoid lupus erythematosus (DLE) is a form of skin inflammation which occurs particularly on sun‐exposed skin and can cause scarring. All forms of cutaneous lupus erythematosus are most common in women of childbearing age, which is important because some treatments, including thalidomide and acitretin, can cause birth defects, and hydroxychloroquine may cause damage to the eye or ear. As the chronic nature and scarring of DLE can have psychological impact, and some treatments may produce serious adverse effects, we felt it was important to combat uncertainty and identify the best and safest treatment. The evidence is current to September 2016. 
Review question 
We aimed to identify the best treatment for people with DLE, to reduce the risk of scarring and possible psychological effects. We searched for all possible drug treatments, including topical agents (steroids and pimecrolimus or tacrolimus) and oral agents, such as hydroxychloroquine, retinoids, methotrexate, azathioprine, lenalidomide, and biological agents. Potentially, any of these interventions could have been compared with placebo or with any other intervention. We excluded surgery, laser, photoprotection, phototherapy, and other forms of physical therapy as we did not consider them drug treatments. We hoped to find evidence for effective treatment, without serious adverse effects. 
Study characteristics 
We identified five studies, involving 197 people (aged between 17 and 82). Participants were recruited from Europe, Scandinavia, Iran, and the United States. Most of the skin lesions were recorded on the face, ear, and scalp. The duration of disease ranged from one month to 16 years. Treatments included steroid creams of different potencies (fluocinonide and betamethasone cream, both potent steroids; and hydrocortisone, a low‐potency steroid); oral hydroxychloroquine; oral acitretin; tacrolimus cream; pimecrolimus cream; and salbutamol cream. The tacrolimus and salbutamol trials used placebo in the control arm. 
Key results 
In a trial involving 78 participants, fluocinonide cream 0.05% appeared nearly three times as effective as hydrocortisone cream 1% in terms of complete clearing of the DLE (27% versus 10%). The percentage of people who had a reduction in the redness of at least 50% of their sores was not reported, nor was patient satisfaction. Skin irritation occurred in three people using hydrocortisone and one person developed acne; burning occurred in two people using fluocinonide. Adverse events did not stop any participants continuing to apply the creams. 
Hydroxychloroquine 400 mg and acitretin 50 mg appear to work equally well in terms of complete resolution (50% versus 46%, respectively). Marked improvement in redness may be less in the acitretin group (42% versus 68%), but neither drug has been compared with placebo. Patient satisfaction was not measured. Adverse events, more common in the acitretin group, were reported as minor, although four people stopped treatment due to dry lips and gastrointestinal symptoms. 
Pimecrolimus cream 1% (an anti‐inflammatory cream) was compared with betamethasone (steroid) 0.1% cream in a small 8‐week study involving 10 people, but none of the review primary outcomes were reported; nor were adverse effects. 
A longer study using a similar type of cream, tacrolimus 0.1%, compared with placebo did not report the primary outcomes. Slight burning and itching was reported in five participants applying tacrolimus, and a herpes simplex infection came back in one participant. A few people reported burning or irritation after the use of tacrolimus cream, but not sufficient to cause withdrawal. 
R‐salbutamol 0.5% topical cream was compared with placebo cream in a trial of 37 people, but the primary outcomes of this review were not reported. There were only minor adverse events reported in each group: 15 in the placebo group and 24 in the salbutamol group. 
