Inhaling antibiotics to treat temporary worsening of lung infection in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
What evidence is there for using inhaled antibiotics to treat exacerbations (flare ups) of lung infection in people with cystic fibrosis? 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a serious genetic disorder that results in abnormally sticky mucus in several parts of the body. In the lungs this sticky mucus can lead to repeated infections. An exacerbation makes the symptoms of infection more severe. Antibiotics are an essential part of treatment and may be given by mouth (orally), by needle into the blood stream (intravenously) or by inhaling the drug. We wanted to learn if inhaling antibiotics improved general health compared to the other methods. This might mean that people with cystic fibrosis could avoid hospitalisation for intravenous antibiotics and some side effects of intravenous treatment. Inhaling the antibiotics would also be easier for people who have difficulty with access to their veins. This is an updated version of the review. 
Search date 
We last looked for evidence on 7 March 2022.
Study characteristics 
We found five trials comparing different ways of giving antibiotics when treating exacerbations in a total of 183 people with cystic fibrosis. Two trials compared inhaled antibiotics alone to intravenous antibiotics alone (77 participants) and three trials compared a combination of inhaled and intravenous antibiotics to intravenous antibiotics alone (106 participants). In all trials, the inhaled antibiotics were compared to the same antibiotics given intravenously. The numbers of participants in each trial ranged from 16 to 62. 
Key results 
Inhaled antibiotics alone versus intravenous antibiotics alone 
One trial (18 participants) reported a perceived improvement in lifestyle in both groups, but neither trial reported on time off work or school. Both trials measured lung function, but neither reported any difference between treatment groups. One trial (18 participants) reported no difference in the need for additional antibiotics and the second trial (59 participants) reported on the length of time until the next exacerbation ‐ there was no difference between inhaled or intravenous antibiotics for either outcome. Only one trial (18 participants) measured adverse events and sputum microbiology, but did not find any difference between treatments for either outcome. 
