Is urgent‐start peritoneal dialysis safe for patients with chronic kidney disease?
What is the issue? 
Peritoneal dialysis is a form of kidney replacement therapy in which the lining of the abdomen is used as a filter for dialysis. The dialysis fluid is introduced via a tube which is placed into the abdomen, called a peritoneal dialysis catheter. Traditionally, dialysis is delayed for two weeks after catheter placement, in order to allow proper wound healing. However, some studies reported that patients with chronic kidney disease who urgently need to start dialysis within two weeks of catheter insertion (urgent‐ start peritoneal dialysis) experienced comparable outcomes to others who commenced dialysis more than two weeks after catheter insertion (conventional‐start peritoneal dialysis). 
What did we do? 
We conducted a systematic review to examine the complications and outcomes of patients with chronic kidney disease who started peritoneal dialysis urgently within two weeks of insertion of peritoneal dialysis catheter. 
What did we find? 
We identified 16 studies (2953 participants) examining the outcomes of urgent versus conventional start peritoneal dialysis. When we compared results from patients who initiated dialysis two weeks after catheter insertion, patients who initiated dialysis urgently were more likely to have leakage of dialysis fluid outside the abdominal cavity into the skin near the exit site of peritoneal dialysis catheter. The differences in infection of the lining of the abdomen (peritonitis), infection at the exit point of the peritoneal dialysis catheter (exit‐site infection), mechanical complications of peritoneal dialysis (including catheter blockage, catheter malposition and catheter readjustment), patients remaining on peritoneal dialysis (technique survival), and death between patients who started dialysis urgently and those who waited for two weeks after catheter insertion remain unclear. 
Conclusions 
In patients with chronic kidney disease who require dialysis urgently without ready‐to‐use dialysis access in place, peritoneal dialysis may increase dialysate leak. However, the overall risks of infectious and other non‐infectious complications between urgent‐start peritoneal dialysis and conventional‐start peritoneal dialysis remains unclear. 
