Propionyl‐L‐carnitine for intermittent claudication
Background 
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), most often due to systemic atherosclerosis, affects 4% to 12% of the population aged 55 to 70 years and up to 20% of people over 70 years of age. Peripheral arterial disease tends to be more common in men overall, but woman have more asymptomatic PAD. Approximately 10% to 35% of those affected with PAD report intermittent claudication. Intermittent claudication is characterized by pain in the legs or buttocks that occurs with exercise and subsides with rest. Compared with age‐matched controls, people with intermittent claudication have a six‐fold increased risk of cardiovascular mortality. Treatment should include all measures of prevention for cardiovascular disease, which include cessation of smoking, exercise, and treatment for hypertension, diabetes, and cholesterol. Antiplatelet medications and statins are given to reduce the risk of cerebrovascular and coronary events. 
To improve symptoms of claudication, regular (supervised) exercise and smoking cessation are the mainstay in the management of intermittent claudication. Drug treatments can include, besides antiplatelets and lipid‐lowering agents, vasoactive agents to improve blood flow, reduce pain, and improve walking distance. A minority of people with intermittent claudication undergo endovascular intervention or vascular surgery. Many pharmacological agents have been advocated for treating intermittent claudication, but none have gained worldwide acceptance. Few show some mild to moderate improvement in walking performance and are prudently proposed in the guidelines. Propionyl‐L‐carnitine (PLC) is a drug that may alleviate symptoms of PAD through a metabolic pathway, thereby improving exercise performance. 
Key results 
A search for relevant articles on propionyl‐L‐carnitine for treatment of intermittent claudication identified 12 relevant trials that matched our inclusion criteria (current until July 2021). In 11 studies, participants received either 1 gram to 2 grams oral PLC (9 studies) or intravenous propionyl‐L‐carnitine (3 studies) per day or placebo. One study compared propionyl‐L‐carnitine with L‐carnitine. Studies comparing PLC against other interventions such as exercise, other medication, endovascular intervention, or vascular surgery were not identified. 
Maximum walking distance (or absolute claudication distance (ACD)) is the distance walked during a standardized test at which the participant stops walking due to muscular cramps. Pain‐free walking distance (or initial claudication distance (ICD)) is the distance walked during a standardized test until the start of pain. ACD and ICD were the outcomes of the review parameters and showed moderate improvement: for ACD, participants on propionyl‐L‐carnitine walked 50.86 meters or 26% farther than participants on placebo; for ICD, participants on propionyl‐L‐carnitine walked 32.98 meters or 31% farther than participants on placebo. Propionyl‐L‐carnitine participants showed improvement in ankle brachial index of 0.09 over placebo participants. Improvement in quality of life was also greater in the propionyl‐L‐carnitine group; however, this was based on the findings of only one study. Adverse events of propionyl‐L‐carnitine were similar to those of placebo and mainly consisted of nausea, gastric intolerance, and flu‐like symptoms. Propionyl‐L‐carnitine seemed to be a well‐tolerated and safe drug. 
