Progestogen for preventing miscarriage
What is the issue? 
Early pregnancy loss, also known as miscarriage, generally occurs in the first trimester. For some women and their partners, miscarriages can happen several times, also known as recurrent miscarriages. While there are sometimes causes for miscarriages that are found, often no clear reasons can be found. The hormone called progesterone prepares the womb (uterus) to receive and support the newly fertilized egg during the early part of pregnancy. It has been suggested that some women who miscarry may not make enough progesterone in the early part of pregnancy. Supplementing these women with medications that act like progesterone (these are called progestogens) has been suggested as a possible way to prevent recurrent miscarriage. 
Since publication of the 2018 update of this review, we have been advised that one study (by Ismail 2017) is currently the subject of an investigation by the Journal of Maternal‐Fetal & Neonatal Medicine. We have now moved this study from 'included studies' to 'Characteristics of studies awaiting classification' until the outcome of the investigation is known. 
Why is this important? 
Having miscarriages can be both physically and emotionally difficult for women and their partners. Finding a therapy to help reduce recurrent miscarriages could help them avoid a miscarriage and have a live baby. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 6 July 2017 and identified a total of 13 trials that enrolled a total of 2556 women with a history of recurrent miscarriages. These trials found that giving progestogen medication to women with recurrent miscarriages early in their pregnancy may help lower the rates of miscarriage in that pregnancy from 27.5% to 20.1%. We believe that these findings are based on evidence of only moderate quality, so we cannot be certain about the results. We did not find that giving the progestogen medication by mouth, as a shot (injection), or in the vagina, was any better than any of the other ways. We also found that the trials showed that giving progestogen to women with prior recurrent miscarriages made the chances of having a live baby in the current pregnancy slightly higher. We are uncertain about the effect on the rate of preterm birth because the evidence is very low‐quality. We did not find evidence of improvement in other outcomes such as newborn death, stillbirth, low birthweight, or newborn birth defects for women given progestogens. 
