Prophylactic anastomotic drainage for colorectal surgery
Background 
We designed this review to compare drainage with non‐drainage in people having colorectal surgery (a procedure that is used to repair damage to the colon, rectum, anus and muscle of the lower belly) with bowel anastomosis (where two ends of the bowel are joined to each other). Elective colorectal surgery (where surgery is planned in advance rather than carried out as an emergency) often involves removal of part of the large bowel for a variety of diagnoses with subsequent anastomosis. There is the option for the surgeon to place a drain at the time of surgery to prevent leakage from the anastomosis. This is called a prophylactic drain. Cochrane review authors assessed the evidence for the routine use of prophylactic drain placement after the formation of colorectal anastomoses. 
Study characteristics 
We included three clinical trials involving 908 participants. The trials were conducted in Germany and France. All trials compared routine anastomotic drainage versus no anastomotic drainage after elective colorectal surgery. The evidence was current to February 2015. 
Key results 
This review showed no apparent difference in anastomotic leak, death, radiological (x‐ray) evidence of anastomotic leak, wound infection or need for re‐operation. We found insufficient evidence to support the use of routine prophylactic drains after elective colorectal anastomosis. We based our conclusion on limited evidence with relatively small numbers of participants; this means that it is difficult to detect differences between treatment groups that may be present. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was low, making it impossible to draw firm conclusions about the use of routine prophylactic drains after elective colorectal anastomosis. Additional studies are needed to strengthen the conclusion drawn by this systematic review and to provide further analysis using modern colorectal surgery. We found no new evidence since the previous version of our systematic review of 2004. 
