Aflibercept for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration
Review question  How well does aflibercept work, and how safe is it for the treatment of individuals with neovascular age‐related macular degeneration compared with other currently used treatments (ranibizumab and bevacizumab) or no treatment? 
Background  One cause of loss of sight in the center of the eye is a disease called age‐related macular degeneration (AMD). AMD causes blindness in many older people in developed countries. Around the world, nearly 9% (one in 11) of people 45 to 85 years of age are estimated to have AMD. About 10% of people with AMD develop a type of AMD called neovascular (wet) AMD, which results from new blood vessels that develop in an inner layer of the eye called the choroid. If a patient with this type of AMD is not treated, the affected eye may lose sight and may develop other problems related to blindness. 
New blood vessels grow when they are signaled by a protein called vascular endothelial growth factor A (VEGF‐A). Medicines that block this protein, called anti‐VEGF drugs, are injected into the eye and have been shown to reduce fluid in the back of the eye while causing new blood vessels to slow down growth or to shrink. Ranibizumab and bevacizumab were the most commonly used anti‐VEGF drugs from 2006 to 2011, when aflibercept became available. Aflibercept was created to bond more strongly with VEGF; therefore, aflibercept acts longer after an injection, so patients should need fewer injections of aflibercept than of ranibizumab or bevacizumab. 
Study details  We found two trials that enrolled a total of 2457 participants with neovascular AMD. These trials were similar in most respects, but they were conducted at different locations. One was completed only in North America, and the other took place in many countries in many parts of the world. Both trials compared injections of aflibercept into the eye versus ranibizumab injections and were funded by the company that makes aflibercept. No trial was found that compared aflibercept versus bevacizumab injections into the eye. We last searched for trials on November 30, 2015. 
Key results  Participants treated with aflibercept or ranibizumab experienced similar improvements in visual acuity one year after the start of treatment. Serious vision loss did not occur in many eyes given either treatment and did not occur more often with either aflibercept or ranibizumab. Serious adverse effects in the eye were reported rarely in both aflibercept and ranibizumab groups. The incidence of serious adverse health effects, such as internal bleeding, stroke, and high blood pressure, was comparable between aflibercept and ranibizumab groups; however, such reported events were few. Thus, we are uncertain about possible differences in adverse effects reported among individuals given aflibercept or ranibizumab. 
Quality of the evidence  The two identified trials were well designed, and we judged the quality of evidence as high for vision‐related outcomes. A judgement of high quality means that we believe future research is very unlikely to change our conclusions. Because of uncertainty regarding adverse effects due to the small number of occurrences, we judged the quality of evidence for adverse effects as moderate. A judgement of moderate quality means that we believe future research may have an important impact on our conclusions. 
