Calcium channel blockers for people with chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis
What is the issue? People with long‐term kidney disease or chronic kidney disease (CKD) often develop high blood pressure (hypertension), and those with advanced CKD need dialysis when their kidneys are no longer unable to function. Treatment for hypertension is often challenging for people with advanced CKD undergoing dialysis. Several medications are used to treat high blood pressure including calcium channel blockers (CCBs). 
We wanted to find out whether the use of CCBs in people with CKD undergoing haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis had any added benefits over other medications used to treat hypertension or placebo (no active treatment) in lowering the blood pressure, risk of death and undesired effects. 
What did we do? We searched the literature up to April 2020 to identify all studies that assessed the use of CCBs in adults and children with hypertension and CKD undergoing haemodialysis or peritoneal dialysis. Each study was assessed for possible bias on several pre‐determined domains. We pooled the results of studies that reported on the same outcomes for similar comparisons and reported the overall effects. We applied a system called "GRADE" to assess the quality of the evidence that we found. 
What did we find? We included 13 studies randomising 1459 adults undergoing haemodialysis. We did not find any studies in children and there were no studies in patients undergoing peritoneal dialysis. Patients were randomised to CCBs, other medications used to treat hypertension, or placebo or standard care. Some studies were short‐term (over few months) and heart‐related complications were not assessed. The benefit of CCBs over other medications was unclear, possibly due to the small number of participants and the overall number of events. When compared to placebo or no treatment CCBs may decrease blood pressure before haemodialysis, although the quality of the evidence was low. 
Conclusions The benefits of CCBs over other medications to treat hypertension could not be determined, while CCBs may lower blood pressure compared to placebo or usual care. 
