Combining antipsychotic medication for the treatment of schizophrenia
Background 
Antipsychotic medication was introduced in the 1950s to reduce or alleviate the symptoms of schizophrenia, such as the psychotic states of hearing voices, visual hallucinations and strange thoughts such as paranoia (feeling singled‐out or put upon by others). Medication for mental illness also helped to establish care in the community, because people could take medication in their homes or by regularly visiting the hospital. But this also led to new issues such as the effectiveness of different medication (taken alone or in combination) and compliance (the willingness of service users to take their medication without being supervised). 
The range of antipsychotic medication available is wide and their effectiveness can also vary from individual to individual. In addition, not all patients fully respond to a single antipsychotic, and in these situations, a combination of antipsychotics are often prescribed. The evidence for the benefits of taking one or more antipsychotics in combination is often unclear. There are also differing profiles of typical (first generation) and atypical (second generation) antipsychotics adding to a confusing array of terminology and dilemma of what is the best medication for service users. 
Searches 
This review investigates the effects of different antipsychotic combinations compared with single antipsychotics for people with schizophrenia. Searches for randomised controlled trials have now been run by the Information Specialist of the Cochrane Schizophenia Group in 2010, 2012 and 2016. Sixty‐two trials, reporting useable data, are included in the review. 
Main results 
The review of available evidence found that combinations of antipsychotics may be more effective in treating symptoms of schizophrenia compared with taking one antipsychotic. In particular, combination treatments that included clozapine and typical antipsychotic in both groups were found to be effective. Few studies reported on this central issue of relapse rates (service users becoming unwell again), but this was because most of the studies were of short length (whereas schizophrenia is a long‐term health problem that requires studies of an equally long duration). No real differences were found between combinations of antipsychotics and single antipsychotics for preventing relapse and roughly equal numbers of people discontinued their treatment. There was also no difference between combination therapy and monotherapy regarding hospital admission and/or occurrence of serious adverse events. Numbers leaving the studies early were similar. Clinically meaningful data for quality of life were not reported. 
Conclusions 
These results show that there may be some clinical benefit for combination therapy in that more people receiving a combination of antipsychotic showed an improvement in symptoms. For other important outcomes such as relapse, hospitalisation, adverse events, discontinuing treatment or leaving the study early, no clear differences between the two treatment options were observed. However, these results are based on very low or low‐quality evidence and more research providing high‐quality evidence is needed before firm conclusions can be made. 
