Thyroid surgery for Graves' disease and Graves' opthalmopathy
Review question 
The aim of this review was to compare different surgical techniques for treatment of Graves' disease. We wanted to address whether surgically removing the whole thyroid (total thyroidectomy) gland is better than removing most of the gland (subtotal thyroidectomy) at controlling increased activity of the thyroid (hyperthyroidism) and eye symptoms associated with Graves' disease. 
Background 
Graves' disease is a common condition affecting the thyroid gland, which has an important role in controlling the body's metabolism. The body's own immune system attacks the thyroid gland and causes it to work much harder. This overactivity can lead to increased risk of heart attacks and strokes if left untreated for a long period of time. Graves' disease also causes protrusion of the eye and may limit eye movement (Graves' ophthalmopathy). Graves' disease is generally treated by medication alone or sometimes with radiation or surgery. In recent years, there has been increasing interest in surgery for Graves' disease and other thyroid problems, as results of surgery and health‐related quality of life outcomes appear promising. However, there is controversy over which surgical technique is best, as total thyroidectomy may give better control of disease long term, compared with subtotal thyroidectomy, but carry a greater risk of postoperative complications, such as damage to the so‐called recurrent laryngeal nerve (causing vocal cord dysfunction). 
Study characteristics 
We identified five randomised controlled studies that were relevant to the review question that directly compared different thyroidectomy surgical techniques. A total of 886 participants were included in the studies and follow‐up was between six months and six years. All five studies were conducted in university hospitals or tertiary referral centres for thyroid disease. The countries involved were Germany, Sweden, Poland and Taiwan. No study was performed in an outpatient setting. 
Key results 
Total thyroidectomy is likely to give better control of hyperthyroidism compared to subtotal thyroidectomy (8 or 9 people out of 1000 will experience recurrence of hyperthyroidism after total thyroidectomy compared with 55 to 67 people out of 1000 after subtotal thyroidectomy). There is some evidence to suggest permanently low blood calcium (hypoparathyroidism) is more likely in total thyroidectomy compared to subtotal thyroidectomy (59 people out of 1000 after total thyroidectomy compared with 14 people out of 1000 after subtotal thyroidectomy will experience this side effect). Eye symptoms as well as permanent damage to the recurrent laryngeal nerve appear to be unrelated to the choice of surgical technique. Deaths were rarely reported in the included studies. No study evaluated health‐related quality of life or socioeconomic effects (such as absence from work). 
Quality of the evidence 
The studies in this review suffer from a lack of high quality evidence. Several risk of bias problems were visible such as objective measurements of outcomes without knowing the allocation of participants to the intervention groups (total or subtotal thyroidectomy) and difficulties in finding out if all planned outcomes in studies were really reported in the publications of these studies. Also, rates of outcomes (event rates) were rather low, making our estimation of the differences between the surgical techniques imprecise. Finally, all thyroidectomies were performed by experienced surgeons and it is unknown whether the described results will be the same in other settings. 
Currentness of evidence 
This plain language summary is current as of 22 June 2015.
