Intravenous alpha‐1 antitrypsin augmentation therapy for treating patients with alpha‐1 antitrypsin deficiency and lung disease 
Background 
Alpha‐1 antitrypsin deficiency is an inherited disorder that can cause lung disease (chronic obstructive pulmonary disease or COPD, which is a chronic lung condition that prevents the air supply from getting to the lungs). It affects about 1 in 1600 to 1 in 5000 people. Patients with lung disease suffer from shortness of breath, reduced ability to exercise and wheezing. People who smoke are more seriously affected and have a greater risk of dying from the disease. 
Study characteristics 
We reviewed the benefits and harms of treating patients who have the form of the disease that affects the lungs with alpha‐1 antitrypsin extracted from blood donations. We found three randomised clinical trials (283 participants in the analyses) comparing treatment with alpha‐1 antitrypsin with placebo (a pretend treatment) for two to three years. All participants were ex‐smokers or had never smoked but had the genetic problem that carried a high risk of developing lung problems. The evidence is current to March 2016. 
Key results 
Only one trial reported deaths (one of 93 participants died taking the medicine and three of 87 died taking placebo). There was no information on harms in the oldest trial. In another trial, serious adverse events occurred in 10 participants in the medicine group and 18 participants in the placebo group. In the most recent trial, serious adverse events occurred in 28 participants in each group. 
None of the trials reported on the number of lung infections or hospital admissions. There were more exacerbations (acute worsening in lung function) in the medicine group than in the placebo group, whereas quality of life was similar in the two groups. 
All trials measured lung function using forced expiratory volume in one second (how much air a person can breathe out during a forced breath) and carbon monoxide diffusion (a medical test that measures how much gas travels from the lungs to the blood). Lung function was slightly worse in participants taking the medicine but the differences were not significant. Lung function deteriorated significantly less when measured by a special type of X‐ray called a computer tomography (CT) scan. Several secondary outcomes were unreported in the largest and most recent trial whose authors had numerous financial conflicts of interest. 
