Interventions for improving outcomes in pregnancies that follow stillbirth
We aimed to compare the effectiveness of different interventions or models of care in improving pregnancy outcomes for parents who have had a previous stillbirth at 20 weeks' gestation or more. The care could be initiated before pregnancy, or during pregnancy, labour, or birth. 
What is the issue? 
Every year at least 2.6 million families experience the tragedy of stillbirth. This is a devastating event that can have long‐term consequences and change parents' attitudes to future pregnancies. Many different causes can lead to stillbirth, and sometimes multiple causes occur together. Causes such as long‐term health problems in the mother are still present in subsequent pregnancies. The parents may therefore benefit from special care before becoming pregnant again. Such care may be highly diverse, addressing a range of risk factors, conditions, and other considerations. This care can take the form of counselling or social support programmes to assist with dealing with grief, anxiety and depression; better managing a mother's health before conception to address health issues; and assisting with high‐risk behaviours or risk factors such as being overweight, smoking, or alcohol use. Once pregnant, the mother can be closely watched, possibly with extra antenatal visits or by attending special antenatal clinics. A planned early birth may also be considered. 
Why is this important? 
Parents who have had a stillborn baby are more likely to have another stillbirth than parents who have not had a stillborn baby before. In their next pregnancy, parents often experience anxiety and depression, and ongoing worry about whether their baby will survive. It is important to be able to work out from high‐quality clinical studies which interventions are helpful in preventing stillbirth from happening again, and in improving the health and well‐being of these parents and families. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials published up to June 2018. We included 10 studies at low to moderate risk of bias. All but one study were from high‐income countries, mainly in developed areas of Europe. The women in the studies were either pregnant or attempting to conceive after having a miscarriage, a stillborn baby, or a serious complication in a previous pregnancy. The interventions included two types of drugs (low‐dose aspirin and low‐molecular‐weight heparin) that reduce blood clotting and may help the placenta to function (six trials), pre‐conception injection of blood cells (third‐party leukocyte immunisation) to help mothers' immune systems to cope with pregnancy (one trial), a special type of antibody (intravenous immunoglobulin) given into a vein to improve the functioning of the pregnant woman's immune system (two trials), and injections of a medication (progestogen) that acts like the pregnancy hormone progesterone (one trial). We evaluated data from 222 women who had previously had a stillborn baby at 20 weeks' gestation or more. 
We were unable to determine whether any of these interventions reduced the chance of having another stillborn baby in the subsequent pregnancy; or whether the interventions reduced the chances of babies dying or having serious complications in the first month of life, because the studies not large enough for us to have confidence in the findings. Largely because of this, we judged the quality of evidence in this review to be very low to low. Two interventions (low‐dose aspirin and third‐party leukocyte immunisation) appeared to increase the birthweight of babies, but these findings are not reliable due to the small numbers of babies included. 
The included studies provided very little information about psychological outcomes of parents or longer‐term outcomes of children and families. 
What does this mean? 
There is insufficient evidence from the studies included in this review to know which interventions are helpful in preventing subsequent stillbirths and improving the health and well‐being of parents and families in pregnancies that follow a stillbirth. More targeted studies are needed, which include larger numbers of women/parents who have previously experienced a stillbirth. We urgently need studies testing what forms of psychological support are most helpful in reducing anxiety and depression for these parents. Any studies carried out in future should measure the financial costs of interventions, and longer‐term health outcomes of families and children. 
