Most studies reported on body mass index (BMI) and bodyweight: BMI is a measure of body fat and is calculated from weight and height measurements (kg/m2). In children, BMI is often measured in a way that takes into account sex, weight and height as children grow older (BMI z score). The average change in BMI across control groups was between a 1.8 kg/m2 reduction to a 0.9 kg/m2 increase, while across all intervention groups the average reduction was more pronounced (1.3 kg/m2 reduction). The same effect was observed for weight change: on average, children and adolescents in the intervention groups lost 3.9 kg more weight than the children and adolescents in the control groups. Study authors reported an average of serious side effects in 24 per 1000 participants in the intervention groups compared with an average of 17 per 1000 participants in the control groups. The numbers of participants dropping out of the study because of side effects were 40 per 1000 in the intervention groups and 27 per 1000 in the control groups. The most common side effects in the orlistat and metformin studies were gut (such as diarrhoea and mild tummy pain). Common side effects in the sibutramine trials included increased heart rate (tachycardia), constipation and high blood pressure. The fluoxetine study reported dry mouth and loose stools. One study reported health‐related quality of life (a measure of physical, mental, emotional and social functioning) and found no marked differences between intervention and control. No study reported the participants' views of the intervention or socioeconomic effects. Only one study reported on morbidity (how often a disease occurs in a specific area) associated with the intervention, where there were more gallstones after the orlistat treatment. Study authors reported one suicide in the orlistat intervention group. However, studies were not long enough to reliably investigate death from any cause. No study investigated drug treatment for children who were only overweight (obese children have a much higher weight, BMI or BMI z score than children being overweight). 