Physical activity to improve exercise capacity in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether physical activity interventions (including exercise) have any effect on exercise capacity, health‐related quality of life and lung function in people with cystic fibrosis (CF). This is an update of a previously published review. 
Background 
CF affects many systems in the body, but mainly the lungs. It causes shortness of breath and limits the amount of exercise people with CF can tolerate. The progress of lung disease leads to a low ability to exercise and to physical inactivity, which in turn affects health and health‐related quality of life. We looked for studies where people with CF engaged in a physical activity intervention (including endurance‐type activities such as walking, jogging, swimming and cycling; or resistance training; or combinations of both) compared to a control group with no intervention (usual care). 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 3 March 2022.
Study characteristics 
We included 24 studies (875 participants) in this review. The number of people in each study ranged from nine to 117. Some studies included only children, others only adults, and some both children and adults. The studies included people with a wide range of disease severity. The studies used differing levels of supervision in their active training programmes: in 12 studies, participants were supervised; in 11 studies, participants were partially supervised; and in one study, participants were not supervised at all. The active training programme lasted up to and including six months in 14 studies, and longer than six months in the remaining 10 studies. Of the 24 included studies, seven added on a follow‐up period (when all participants reverted to usual care, but were still allowed to exercise if they wished). The quality of the included studies varied widely. 
Key results 
This systematic review shows that physical activity interventions for longer than six months probably improve exercise capacity in people with CF. When compared with no activity, physical activity interventions may make little or no difference to lung function and health‐related quality of life. 
The largest study included in this review (117 participants) reported:
‐ no differences between the physical activity and control groups in the number of pulmonary exacerbations (a flare up of disease) (high‐certainty evidence); 
‐ no differences in the time to the first flare up for 12 months (high‐certainty evidence);
‐ no beneficial effects of physical activity on diabetic control after nine months (moderate‐certainty evidence). 
Two studies (156 participants) found no differences between groups in the number of reported adverse events (low‐certainty evidence). 
For active training programmes lasting up to and including six months, the effects were similar to the longer programmes.  
Only three studies which added a follow‐up period (of varying durations) reported data we could analyse on changes in exercise capacity and lung function; and only one reported on quality of life. These results must be interpreted with caution.  
Overall and when compared to usual care (no intervention), physical activity and exercise training probably lead to slightly better exercise capacity, while they may have little or no effect on lung function and health‐related quality of life in people with CF. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We included 24 studies. Given the differences in effects across studies, the wide variation in study quality and the lack of information on clinically meaningful changes for several outcome measures, we consider the overall certainty of the evidence on the effects of physical activity interventions on exercise capacity, lung function and health‐related quality of life as low to moderate. We are uncertain about the effects we have seen and better‐quality studies will likely change these findings. 
Factors affecting our certainty included that, in five studies, the characteristics of some of the people taking part were different between groups at the start of the studies, despite people being put into the different treatment groups at random. 
