Acupuncture for sudden‐onset ankle sprains in adults
An acute ankle sprain is a sudden‐onset injury of the ankle ligaments (tough strands of tissue that connect and stabilise the bones at the ankle). It is one of the most common injuries in the general population as well as in athletes. Acupuncture is frequently used for treating ankle sprains in eastern Asian countries. This review aimed to assess the benefits and harms of acupuncture for the treatment of ankle sprains in adults. We searched the medical literature for studies up to May 2013. 
Our review includes 20 studies involving 2012 people with ankle sprains. These studies differed from each other in many ways and compared various types of acupuncture with a variety of standard control interventions. Most studies reported only the 'cure rate' ‐ the number of participants who had recovered at a set time. No study reported on patient‐reported assessment of function. Only one study reported on adverse events and found skin problems in individuals receiving over‐the‐counter traditional Chinese herbal patches as a control intervention. Most trials had flaws in the way they were conducted, which makes their results less reliable; for example, most studies failed to ensure participants did not know which intervention they were receiving. 
One study, which compared acupuncture with no treatment, found more people were cured with acupuncture. Most of the eight studies comparing acupuncture plus another standard treatment versus that standard treatment alone found higher cure rates in the acupuncture group. However, we found that pooling these results did not provide conclusive evidence that acupuncture resulted in a better cure rate. 
Fourteen studies compared acupuncture with a variety of other non‐surgical treatments, such as Chinese herbal patches, hot and cold water, ice packs, Chinese oral herbal medicine and elastic bandages. Some studies found in favour of acupuncture, some in favour of the other treatment and some found a lack of evidence for a difference between the two interventions under test. The pooled results from 11 studies comparing acupuncture versus another non‐surgical intervention tended to favour acupuncture, but this evidence was not conclusive. 
