Pericyazine for the treatment of schizophrenia
People with schizophrenia often experience symptoms such as hearing voices or seeing things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). The first line and mainstay of treatment for the symptoms of schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. These antipsychotic drugs can be grouped into older drugs (typical or first generation) and newer drugs (atypical or second generation). Pericyazine is a relatively old antipsychotic formulated in 1961. Some studies have suggested that it may be of more benefit than other antipsychotic drugs. 
This review aims to assess the effectiveness of pericyazine in the treatment of schizophrenia compared to older and newer antipsychotics.A search for studies was carried out in 2013 and five studies conducted between 1965 and 1980 were found and included in the review. The quality of evidence was rated by the authors to be very low, and their results were imprecise for many outcomes where they compared pericyazine and other older and newer antipsychotic drugs. The evidence is inadequate to determine whether pericyazine is better than other antipsychotics. 
The results of the analysis for the outcome of improvement were imprecise and the authors could not be certain that more people who took pericyazine were found to have not improved compared with those who took typical antipsychotics. More side effects, such as involuntary shaking, tremors, restlessness and spasms, were experienced by people who took pericyazine than other typical or atypical antipsychotics. These side effects are very unpleasant and the increased occurrence of them compared to other antipsychotics is an important finding considering pericyazine may not have additional benefits for the symptoms of schizophrenia. 
No studies reported outcomes on satisfaction of treatment or cost effectiveness, which require attention. This lack of evidence leaves people with schizophrenia, mental health professionals and policy makers with little information on the benefits, hazards or problems of pericyazine. Outcomes on the cost of care and satisfaction with treatment should be included in future trials which should also be larger, better conducted, and fully reported. 
