Iron supplementation taken daily for improving health in menstruating women
Review question 
What are the effects of iron, taken orally for at least five days a week, on health outcomes in menstruating women (compared with not giving iron)? 
Background 
Iron deficiency (a shortage of iron stored in the body) and anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin ‐ healthy red blood cells ‐ in the blood) are common problems globally, especially in women. Low levels of iron can eventually cause anaemia (iron‐deficiency anaemia). Among non‐pregnant women, around one third are anaemic worldwide. The problem is seen most commonly in low‐income countries, but iron deficiency and anaemia are more common in women in all contexts. Iron‐deficiency anaemia is considered to impair health and well‐being in women, and iron supplements ‐ tablets, capsules, syrup or drops containing iron ‐ are a commonly used intervention to prevent and treat this condition. We sought to review the evidence of iron, taken orally for at least five days per week, for improving health outcomes in non‐pregnant women of reproductive age (menstruating women). 
Search data 
The review is current to November 2015.
Study characteristics 
We included studies comparing the effects of iron compared with no iron when given at least five days per week to menstruating women. We identified 67 trials recruiting 8506 women eligible for inclusion in the review. Most trials lasted between one and three months. The most commonly used iron form was ferrous sulphate. 
Key results 
We found evidence that iron supplements reduce the prevalence of anaemia and iron deficiency, and raise levels of haemoglobin in the blood and in iron stores. Iron supplementation clearly increases the risk of side effects, for example, constipation and abdominal pain. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found high quality evidence that iron improves haemoglobin and produces changes in bowel function, but moderate quality evidence that iron reduces the prevalence of anaemia and iron deficiency. Evidence of the effects of iron on other outcomes, such as abdominal pain, is of low quality. There are no data on the effects of iron on mortality in this population group. 
