Do inhaled corticosteroids reduce growth in children with persistent asthma?
Review question: We reviewed the evidence on whether inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) could affect growth in children with persistent asthma, that is, a more severe asthma that requires regular use of medications for control of symptoms. 
Background: Treatment guidelines for asthma recommend ICS as first‐line therapy for children with persistent asthma. Although ICS treatment is generally considered safe in children, parents and physicians always remain concerned about the potential negative effect of ICS on growth. 
Search date: We searched trials published until January 2014. 
Study characteristics: We included in this review trials comparing daily use of corticosteroids, delivered by any type of inhalation device for at least three months, versus placebo or non‐steroidal drugs in children up to 18 years of age with persistent asthma. 
Key results: Twenty‐five trials involving 8471 children with mild to moderate persistent asthma (5128 treated with ICS and 3343 treated with placebo or non‐steroidal drugs) were included in this review. Eighty percent of these trials were conducted in more than two different centres and were called multi‐centre studies; five were international multi‐centre studies conducted in high‐income and low‐income countries across Africa, Asia‐Pacifica, Europe and the Americas. Sixty‐eight percent were financially supported by pharmaceutical companies. 
Meta‐analysis (a statistical technique that combines the results of several studies and provides a high level of evidence) suggests that children treated daily with ICS may grow approximately half a centimeter per year less than those not treated with these medications during the first year of treatment. The magnitude of ICS‐related growth reduction may depend on the type of drug. Growth reduction seems to be maximal during the first year of therapy and less pronounced in subsequent years of treatment. Evidence provided by this review allows us to conclude that daily use of ICS can cause a small reduction in height in children up to 18 years of age with persistent asthma; this effect seems minor compared with the known benefit of these medications for asthma control. 
Quality of evidence: Eleven of 25 trials did not report how they guaranteed that participants had an equal chance of receiving ICS or placebo or non‐steroidal drugs. All but six trials did not report how researchers were kept unaware of the treatment assignment list. However, this methodological limitation may not significantly affect the quality of evidence because the results remained almost unchanged when we excluded these trials from the analysis. 
