Is extending the treatment time by specialist mental health teams better for people with recent‐onset psychosis? 
What is psychosis? 
Psychosis describes conditions affecting the mind, in which people have trouble distinguishing what is real from what is not real. This might involve seeing or hearing things that other people cannot see or hear (hallucinations), or believing things that are not true (delusions). The combination of hallucinations and delusional thinking can cause severe distress and a change in behaviour. A first episode psychosis is the first time a person experiences an episode of psychosis. Recent‐onset psychosis is the first few years of the illness after someone experiences it for the first time. 
Psychosis is treatable 
Many people recover from a first episode and never experience another psychotic episode.
Early intervention teams specialise in treating recent‐onset psychosis, and aim to treat psychosis as quickly and intensively as possible. Intensive, early treatment of psychosis may help more people to continue with their treatment and to recover. 
Early intervention treatment usually lasts for two or three years. After early intervention treatment, a person will be cared for by their doctor or by standard community mental health professionals. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out if longer treatment (for up to 5 years) by specialist early intervention teams was more successful at treating recent‐onset psychosis than the usual two or three years of treatment followed by treatment by non‐specialist teams. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the use of longer treatment of recent‐onset psychosis by specialist early intervention teams. 
We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
We wanted to find out, at the end of the treatment:
‐ how many people recovered;
‐ how many people stopped their treatment too soon;
‐ how many people were admitted to a psychiatric hospital, and for how long;
‐ people's psychotic symptoms and functioning (how well they cope with daily life); and 
‐ how many people died.
Search date: we included evidence published up to 22 October 2019. 
What we found 
We found three studies conducted in Denmark, Canada and Hong Kong in 780 people (55% men; average age 20 to 25 years). 
The studies compared longer treatment (up to 5 years) with standard treatment (up to 3 years) by an early intervention team followed by treatment as usual (by their doctor or community mental health professionals). 
What are the results of our review? 
We found no difference between standard treatment and longer treatment by an early intervention team in the numbers of people who recovered (assessed by remission of symptoms; 3 studies; 780 people). 
Fewer people may stop their treatment too soon during longer treatment than standard treatment (2 studies; 380 people). 
There may be no difference between standard treatment and longer treatment for how many people are admitted to a psychiatric hospital (1 study; 160 people), or for how long they stay in hospital (1 study; 400 people). 
