Continuous glucose monitoring systems for monitoring cystic fibrosis‐related diabetes
Review question 
Canusing continuous glucose monitoring systems (CGMS) help people with cystic fibrosis‐related diabetes (CFRD) manage their condition better? 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a life‐shortening genetic condition. Many people with CF also develop CFRD, where their blood glucose, or the amount of sugar in their blood, can rise to harmful levels. People with CFRD seem to experience more frequent chest infections and a shorter life expectancy than people with CF who do not have diabetes. 
CFRD can be managed with injections of insulin to help keep blood sugar in the normal range. To do this safely, people with CFRD need to routinely check blood sugar levels to make sure that they are taking the right amount of insulin. They usually do this by pricking their fingers and measuring a drop of blood on a machine. CGMS are devices that can be worn by a person and which closely estimate blood sugar levels without the need for regular pin‐prick testing. They are a relatively new technology and we still do not know how they affect the monitoring and management of CFRD. 
We wanted to find out whether using CGMS was better or worse than other methods, such as using the traditional 'finger stick' method, for monitoring blood sugar levels inpeople with CFRD. The main outcomes we wanted to look at were quality of life, any problems the CGMS might cause, and the amount of time a person's blood sugar stayed in the normal range. We decided that theseoutcomes were most important afterasking people with CFRD and their families what mattered most to them. 
Search date 
Evidence is current to: 23 September 2021.
Study characteristics 
We did not find any relevant studies to include in the review, but we found two studies which we might be able to include in an update of this review when we have more information about them and they have both been completed. 
Key results 
When we ran our searches, we did not find any studies that matched our inclusion criteria. This means we cannot comment on how CGMS affects the outcomes we set out to investigate as there is no evidence for us to look at. We found one ongoing study in people with CFRD who are in hospital for a pulmonary exacerbation (flare up of chest symptoms). The study is comparing the effects of giving insulin via an insulin pump and monitoring blood sugar using a CGMS to giving daily insulin injections (or if participants are already using an insulin pump before being admitted to hospital, they continue with this) and monitoring blood sugar levels using the 'finger stick' method. The people using the finger stick method will wear a dummy CGMS so the clinicians measuring outcomes will not know which group they are in. The study has not yet been completed, so we could not include it, but we might be able to include it in a future version of this review.  
