Workplace lighting for improving alertness and mood in daytime workers
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if specific types of lighting can change levels of alertness and state of mood in daytime workers. 
We collected and analysed five studies that addressed this question.
Key messages 
Cool‐white light, technically known as high correlated colour temperature light, may improve alertness, but not mood, in daytime workers. Cool‐white light may also cause less irritation, eye discomfort and headache. Changing the proportions of direct and indirect light in the workplace may not affect alertness or mood. Glasses with mounted LEDs (which stands for light emitting diode) providing blue‐enriched light may improve alertness and mood in workers. Personal exposure to bright light during the afternoon improves alertness and mood just as well as personal exposure to bright light in the morning in people exhibiting symptoms that are not severe enough for the diagnosis of seasonal depression. All findings are based on low‐quality or very low‐quality evidence, therefore, additional studies are still needed. 
What was studied in the review? 
Light is important in many biological functions, such as the regulation of sleep, and it may influence a person's state of mood and level of alertness. Daytime workers who spend most of the time indoors may be exposed to low light levels during daytime. This may lead to decreased levels of alertness and mood disturbances. 
We analysed data from studies that investigated the effects of any type of lighting on alertness and mood in daytime workers performing work indoors. Different types of lighting include cool white light compared to warm light, different levels of light intensity, individually applied light or exposure to daylight. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included five studies, with 282 participants. Participants were office and hospital workers. Two studies investigated the effect of cool white light and one study focused on indirect light sources. Two studies investigated the effect of individually administered light using special glasses or a light box (a flat box with a side of translucent glass or plastic that contains a light). 
Cool white light may improve alertness, but not mood, and it may cause less irritability, eye discomfort and headache. These findings are based on two studies sponsored by the industry. 
Changing the proportions of direct and indirect light in the workplace may not substantially affect alertness or mood. 
Blue‐enriched light provided using glasses with mounted LEDs may improve alertness and mood. 
Individual exposure to bright light using a light box during the afternoon may improve alertness and mood just as well as individual exposure to bright light in the morning in people exhibiting symptoms that are not severe enough for the diagnosis of seasonal depression. 
All findings are based on low or very low‐quality evidence (due to the small number of studies and participants, and problems in how the studies were conducted), therefore, additional studies are still needed. 
We found no studies that investigated the effects of: light intensity, light intensity combined with light colour, or exposure to daylight. 
