Tiagabine add‐on therapy for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a disorder in which recurrent seizures are caused by abnormal electrical discharges from the brain. Most seizures can be controlled by a single antiepileptic drug. Unfortunately, some people require more than one antiepileptic drug to control their seizures (drug‐resistant epilepsy), especially if the seizures originate from one area of the brain (focal epilepsy), rather than affecting the entire brain (generalised epilepsy). 
Tiagabine is a newer antiepileptic drug that can be used in conjunction with a person's normal antiepileptic drug regimen. This review assessed the evidence available for how effective tiagabine is in reducing seizures, as well as looking at the side effects that may be associated with its use when it is used alongside other antiepileptic medication(s) for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Results 
We found six trials that included 948 people with focal epilepsy. These trials were all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the antiepileptic drug tiagabine with a placebo (an inactive, dummy treatment which should not affect epilepsy) or with a different antiepileptic drug for a period of up to 24 weeks. We found that tiagabine, when used with another antiepileptic drug, was three times more effective than placebo at reducing the number of seizures in people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. Adding tiagabine to people's usual treatment was, however, associated with an increase in side effects, such as dizziness and tremor. People using tiagabine were over four times more likely to experience tremor than those using placebo; however, only one trial reported this adverse event so the evidence for this is limited. People taking tiagabine in addition to other drugs were nearly twice as likely to withdraw from treatment than those taking placebo. We found no significant differences between tiagabine and topiramate, another antiepileptic drug, as add‐on drugs. 
Conclusions 
Overall, there was high‐certainty evidence for the outcome of seizure reduction, which means that we are confident that the effect we have reported is accurate. The trials included in this review did not examine the long‐term effects of tiagabine as an add‐on treatment or the effects of tiagabine in children aged below the age of 12 years. Future research is needed to determine how tiagabine performs in comparison with other newer antiepileptic drugs. 
