Body position and apnoea in the preterm infant
Review question: Does body positioning affect cardiorespiratory parameters in spontaneously breathing preterm infants with clinically significant apnoea? 
Background: Apnoea is a condition in which an infant stops breathing for a short duration but then resumes normal breathing. Apnoea is rare among infants born at term, but its incidence increases with decreasing gestational age. Apnoea is generally considered a normal occurrence in the healthy preterm infant. However, long‐term consequences of recurrent apnoea that lead to lower oxygen levels in sick preterm infants remain unknown. In addition, little agreement has been reached about what degree of apnoea is acceptable. It has been proposed that body positioning is an easy, practical and effective intervention as compared with other, invasive measures for minimising or preventing apnoea. Therefore, this review was conducted to see if different body positions can prevent or alleviate apnoea. 
Study characteristics: Review authors searched the medical literature and identified five eligible trials that recruited a total of 114 infants. Our updated search (November 2016) identified no new studies for inclusion in this review. Included studies examined effects on cardiorespiratory parameters of supine versus prone; prone versus right lateral; prone versus left lateral; right lateral versus left lateral; prone horizontal versus prone head elevated; right lateral horizontal versus right lateral head elevated; and left lateral horizontal versus left lateral head elevated positions in spontaneously breathing preterm infants with apnoea. 
Key results: None of the individual included studies nor meta‐analyses showed differences on cardiorespiratory parameters between different preterm infant body positions. 
Quality of evidence: The overall quality of evidence was low to very low because of high or unclear risk of bias and imprecise results yielded by small sample sizes. Thus, this review cannot recommend use of one body position over another for spontaneously breathing preterm infants with apnoea. 
