Heated CO2 for laparoscopic abdominal surgery
Background 
In laparoscopic surgery, surgery is performed through small incisions using long instruments and video cameras. To create a working and viewing space in the abdomen, carbon dioxide (CO2) is insufflated to separate the abdominal wall from internal organs. Traditionally, unheated CO2 is used but there has been suggestions that heated CO2 may prevent hypothermia. Hypothermia has been associated with heart attacks, abnormal heart rhythms, increased infections, decreased clotting ability and increased blood loss. We aimed to investigate the role of heated compared with cold CO2 in laparoscopic abdominal surgery. 
Study Characteristics 
We searched the medical literature for randomised controlled trials (where people are allocated at random to one of two or more treatment groups) that compared heated and cold CO2. We analysed data from the trials for changes in core temperature. We also compared post‐operative pain scores and pain medication requirements, length of hospital stay, length of surgery and fogging of the surgical video camera lens. Evidence is current to September 2016. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
We identified and included 22 trials. There was an increase of 0.31 °C in the heated, humidified CO2 group compared to the cold CO2 group but the data were heterogeneous (highly variable). However, if the analysis was limited to the eight low‐risk‐of‐bias studies that reported core temperatures, no significant difference was found. Also, there was no temperature difference for heated and non‐humidified gas compared to cold gas. 
There was no difference in postoperative pain with heated or cold insufflation. However, pain medication use was higher in only the heated, non‐humidified group on postoperative days one and two. 
Heated gas apparently did not change length of hospitalisation, lens fogging or length of operation. Recovery room stay was shorter with heated gas but the data was heterogeneous (highly variable). When we only included studies at low risk of bias, the data became homogeneous (less variable) and the recovery room time was not significantly different between the heated and cold gas groups. 
