Methods to improve healthcare worker hand hygiene to decrease infection in patient care 
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out what strategies can improve healthcare workers' compliance with recommendations for hand hygiene, either handwashing with soap and water or using alcohol‐based hand rub (ABHR), or both. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Key messages 
A variety of single intervention strategies and combinations of strategies, many based on current recommendations from the World Health Organization (WHO), led to increased hand hygiene compliance in most studies, regardless of setting. However, the certainty of the evidence varied from very low to moderate, depending on the strategy. What remains unclear is which strategy or combination of strategies is most effective in a given context. 
What did we study in the review? 
Traditionally hand hygiene has been considered the single most important way of reducing health care‐associated infections, many of which are spread by direct contact, especially by the hands of healthcare workers. Much time and effort is spent worldwide promoting hand hygiene. Many different strategies have been tried to improve hand hygiene compliance but the most effective methods remain unclear. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included 26 studies in the review. Fourteen studies assessed the success of different combinations of strategies recommended by WHO to improve hand hygiene compliance. Strategies consisted of the following: increasing the availability of alcohol‐based hand hygiene products, different types of education for staff, reminders (written and verbal), different types of performance feedback, administrative support and staff involvement. Six studies assessed different types of performance feedback, two studies evaluated education, three studies evaluated cues such as signs or scent, and one study assessed placement of ABHR. 
Multimodal (combinations of) strategies that include some but not all strategies recommended by WHO may slightly improve hand hygiene compliance and slightly reduce infection rates (low certainty of evidence). Multimodal interventions that include all strategies recommended by WHO may lead to little or no difference in methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection rates (low certainty of evidence), but it is uncertain whether such WHO‐based approaches improve hand hygiene compliance or reduce colonisation rates because the certainty of this evidence is very low. Multimodal interventions that contain all recommended strategies plus additional strategies may slightly improve hand hygiene compliance (low certainty of evidence). It is unclear whether such WHO‐enhanced interventions reduce infection rates because the certainty of this evidence is very low. 
Performance feedback may improve hand hygiene compliance (low certainty of evidence) and probably slightly reduces infection and colonisation rates (moderate certainty of evidence). Education may improve hand hygiene compliance (low certainty of evidence). Cues, such as signs or scent, may slightly improve hand hygiene compliance (low certainty of evidence). Placement of ABHR close to the point of use probably slightly improves hand hygiene compliance (moderate certainty of evidence). 
