Betahistine for symptoms of vertigo
Review question 
Do patients suffering from vertigo from different causes benefit from the drug betahistine?
Background 
Vertigo is a symptom in which individuals experience a false sensation of movement. This type of dizziness is thought to originate in the inner ear balance organ or its connections to the brain. It is a commonly experienced symptom and can cause significant problems with carrying out normal activities. Betahistine is a drug that may work by improving blood flow to the inner ear. This review examines whether betahistine is more effective than a placebo (sham medicine) at treating symptoms of vertigo from different causes in patients of any age. 
Study characteristics 
We included 17 studies, with a total of 1025 participants. Sixteen studies including 953 people compared betahistine with placebo; the studies were at high to unclear risk of bias. All studies with analysable data lasted three months or less. One study, at high risk of bias, included 72 people with benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV) and compared betahistine with placebo; all patients also had particle repositioning manoeuvres. We judged the quality of evidence overall to be low. 
The studies varied considerably in terms of types of participants, their diagnoses, the dose of betahistine and the length of time the drug was taken for, the study methods and the way any improvement in vertigo symptoms was measured. 
Key results 
When all studies are taken together, the proportion of patients reporting a reduction of their vertigo symptoms was significantly higher in the betahistine group than in the placebo group. However, there was significant variability in the results of the studies so this result should be treated with caution. 
The proportion of patients reporting side effects of the medication was similar in both groups: 16% in the betahistine groups and 15% in the placebo groups. Overall, 16% of patients of both groups withdrew from the studies. 
There was insufficient information about the effect of betahistine on objective tests of inner ear balance organ function. There was no information on the effect of betahistine on overall quality of life or falls. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the quality of evidence from the included studies to be low, meaning our estimates of the effects of betahistine could turn out to be inaccurate. The evidence is up to date to September 2015. 
