Using antiretroviral drugs to treat children under 3 years old who have HIV infection
Children under 3 years of age who have HIV infection have a high risk of dying without antiretroviral therapy (ART). However, treatment in this age group is challenging because there are high levels of virus in the blood and few suitable drug choices. Results from this systematic review show that ART soon after birth is preferable to delaying treatment, because infants are less likely to die or become sick. Starting a first‐line treatment regimen that includes lopinavir/ritonavir rather than nevirapine is preferable, because infants and young children are less likely to have to stop treatment, whether or not they had previously been exposed to nevirapine. However, lopinavir/ritonavir is more expensive than nevirapine. It is also currently only available as an inconvenient liquid, which tastes bitter and has to be refrigerated, making it challenging to implement in all parts of the world. While waiting for better formulations to become available, it may be possible to switch from lopinavir/ritonavir to nevirapine once the HIV virus levels become undetectable. However, based on the evidence currently available, a viral load test would be required to identify those children who could safely substitute lopinavir/ritonavir with nevirapine. Viral loads are expensive and not widely available in most countries in sub‐Saharan Africa. An alternative treatment approach is to give a stronger drug combination (four different drugs together) when treatment is first started, then reduce down to three drugs after a short while. However, this strategy did not appear to have long‐term benefits. A 'treatment interruption' strategy, in which infants start ART soon after birth but then stop medication after 1‐2 years, is difficult to implement. Children stopping ART need to restart it very quickly to prevent them becoming sick, and monitoring a child off treatment is challenging in settings with few resources. 
