Phytomedicines (medicines derived from plants) for sickle cell disease
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect and safety of phytomedicines in people with sickle cell disease of all types, of any age, in any setting. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is an inherited blood condition caused by defects in the production of haemoglobin. Haemoglobin is the part of the red blood cell that carries oxygen across the body. Sickle cell disease occurs when people inherit faulty genes responsible for producing haemoglobin from both parents. A variety of complications and a reduced life expectancy are linked with sickle cell disease. Phytomedicines are medicines derived from plants in their original state. People with sickle cell disease may come across them in terms of plant‐remedies from traditional healers. Their benefits have not been evaluated systematically. Laboratory work has long suggested that these medicines may help to ease the symptoms of sickle cell disease. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 18 May 2020 .
Study characteristics 
Three trials (212 participants) and three phytomedicines Niprisan® (also known as Nicosan®), Ciklavit® and the powdered root extract of Pfaffia paniculata were included. 
Key results 
This review found that Niprisan® may help to reduce episodes of sickle cell disease crises associated with severe pain. 
Ciklavit® may have little or no effect in reducing painful crises in SCD, and a possible adverse effect on the level of anaemia. 
We are uncertain of the effect of the powdered root extract of Pfaffia Paniculata in SCD. 
The three phytomedicine formulations reported no serious adverse symptoms or derangement of liver or kidney function in the participants. More scientifically robust trials of these medicines will need to be carried out before we can make any recommendations about their use. Further research should also assess long‐term outcome measures. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the quality of the evidence from this review to be of low to very low quality, depending on the outcome measured. 
