Telerehabilitation for people with low vision
What is the aim of this review? This review aimed to evaluate the benefits of providing vision rehabilitation services remotely (via telerehabilitation) for people with low vision. Telerehabilitation uses an Internet‐based approach rather than the usual office‐based consultations. The main outcome of interest was vision‐related quality of life, but we were also interested in visual function measures such as how fast people can read, and compliance with scheduled sessions and patient satisfaction. 
Key messages Given the disease burden and the growing interest in telemedicine, the two ongoing studies, when completed, may provide evidence in understanding the potential for telerehabilitation as a platform for providing services to people with low vision. 
What was studied in the review? Low vision is a reduction in visual function that cannot be fixed by eyeglasses, contact lenses, or other medical and surgical treatments. People with low vision may find it difficult to perform daily activities such as reading and driving. About 300 million people have low vision worldwide. One way to help people with low vision is rehabilitation, during which individuals are taught to use magnification devices and techniques to make the most of their remaining vision; they are also evaluated periodically to reinforce skills. Office‐based rehabilitation training for low vision has been shown to be effective; however, transportation to the doctor's office may be a barrier to patients. The effectiveness of magnification devices and techniques is compromised if training is not provided. Technology has made it possible to provide low‐vision rehabilitation services through the Internet (i.e. telerehabilitation). Telerehabilitation reduces the challenges related to transportation to in‐office visits, and also offers the convenience of rehabilitation sessions at home. 
What are the main results of the review? We found two ongoing studies but not any completed study that directly addressed the research question. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? The search was last run on 24 June 2019. 
