Methotrexate for treatment of chronic active ulcerative colitis
What is ulcerative colitis? 
Ulcerative colitis is a long‐term (chronic) inflammatory bowel disease characterized by pains (abdominal cramping), a need to rush to the toilet to pass feces (fecal urgency) and bloody diarrhea. 
What is methotrexate? 
Methotrexate is a medicine that reduces the body's natural immune responses and may reduce the inflammation associated with ulcerative colitis. When people with ulcerative colitis are experiencing the symptoms of the disease it is said to be ‘active’; periods when the symptoms stop are called ‘remission’. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers investigated whether methotrexate produces remission in people with active ulcerative colitis, and whether it causes any harms (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature extensively up to June 26, 2014. 
What did the researchers find? 
The researchers identified two studies that included a total of 101 participants. One was a high quality study (67 participants) that compared oral methotrexate (12.5 mg/week) to a placebo (a sugar pill or fake medicine). The other study (34 participants) compared oral methotrexate (15 mg/week) against 6‐mercaptopurine (an immunosuppressive drug at a dose of 1.5 mg/kg/day) and against 5‐aminosalicylic acid (an anti‐inflammatory drug at a dose of 3 g/day). 
In the high quality study, there was no difference between the methotrexate and placebo treatment groups for the number of people who achieved remission and were able to stop taking steroids. This suggests that, when used at this low dose (12.5 mg/week), methotrexate does not produce remission from ulcerative colitis. However, this result is uncertain because of the small number of people who were assessed. 
The other, smaller study showed no differences between methotrexate and the other treatments in the proportion of participants who experienced remission and were able to stop taking steroids. This result is also uncertain due to poor study design and the low number of participants. 
The side effects reported in the two studies included leucopenia (a decrease in the number of white blood cells), migraine, rash, nausea and dyspepsia (indigestion), mild alopecia (hair loss), mild increase in levels of an enzyme found in the liver (aspartate aminotransferase), a collection of pus in the abdominal tissue (peritoneal abscess), abnormally low levels of the protein albumin in the blood (hypoalbuminemia), and pneumonia. 
At present, the results from medical trials do not support the use of low dose oral methotrexate (12.5 mg to 15 mg/week) for the production of remission in active ulcerative colitis. It is not known whether a higher dose of oral methotrexate, or giving methotrexate by a different route (e.g. by injection), would increase the likelihood of remission. 
