Should health care providers arriving at scene of a cardiac arrest give a period of chest compressions first before providing a rapid electric shock 
Out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) is a major cause of death worldwide. Cardiac arrest occurs when the rhythm of the heart becomes disorganized and the heart becomes ineffective at pumping blood to the rest of the body. Prolonged periods of reduced oxygen to the brain can cause permanent damage. Cardiac arrest can be caused by, but is different from, a heart attack (myocardial infarction). 
The disorganized rhythm that the heart goes into in cardiac arrest is often amenable to electric shock therapy (defibrillation). Chest compressions are also very important, as they go some way toward replicating the heart's action by pumping oxygen‐rich blood through the body, rescuing the organs by providing them with oxygen and nutrients. Some scientists have proposed that it is better for health care providers to give a period of chest compressions before providing an electric shock to restart the heart, rather than giving an immediate electric shock, when they arrive on the scene. The idea is that chest compressions make the electric shock more likely to be successful, as the chest compressions start to rescue conditions within the body, making it a more conducive environment for a normal heart rhythm to establish itself after defibrillation. We decided to investigate this question by conducting a Cochrane systematic review to assess whether any evidence from trials would support this theory. We searched available databases until May 2013 to find suitable trials for review, and we included four randomized controlled trials with a total number of 3090 patients. 
After reviewing the studies and their available data, we could not be certain that one approach had superiority over another, and we could not establish whether the two treatments had similar effects on outcomes. We found no adverse effects associated with either treatment. Currently, no definitive evidence allows us to conclude that chest compressions should be the initial therapy for patients with OHCA over immediate electric shock treatment. However, we believe that the amount and quality of research in this area currently are not sufficient to allow strong conclusions. To further our understanding of the efficacy of these two different strategies, further rigorous randomized controlled trials are required. 
