Inserting a contraceptive implant at the same visit as an abortion or at a follow‐up visit 
Review question 
We compared the initiation rate, effectiveness, and side effects of insertion of a contraceptive implant (implant for birth control) at the same visit as an abortion versus delayed insertion at a follow‐up visit. 
Background 
The contraceptive implant is a highly effective method of birth control that is reversible and provides long duration of pregnancy protection. This method is suitable for almost all women, including women who have a pregnancy ended by removal or expulsion. Because many women do not return for a postabortion follow‐up visit and have low rates of contraception uptake, the insertion of a contraceptive implant at the abortion visit is a promising approach that deserves consideration. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomized controlled trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) up to March 2021. We looked at whether insertion of contraceptive implants at the same visit as abortion compared with at the time women returned for a follow‐up visit affected the use of this contraceptive method. We included three studies with a total of 1162 women selecting implant contraception following an abortion assigned to immediate insertion at the visit or at a follow‐up visit. 
Key results 
Use of a contraceptive implant may be higher when it is inserted at the same visit as abortion. The evidence suggests that immediate insertion probably improves the initiation of contraceptive implants. However, immediate insertion may slightly increase the utilization rate at six months. There appeared to be little or no difference between groups in overall failure rate of medical abortion and bleeding side effects at one month after abortion. The evidence also indicates that immediate insertion of contraceptive implants probably reduces unintended pregnancy rate within six months after abortion. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, the certainty of the evidence was moderate to very low. Further good‐quality, well‐designed randomized controlled trials will provide meaningful results on the rates of unintended pregnancy, and side effects following contraceptive implant placement at the same visit as abortion, compared to insertion within six weeks after. 
