Interventions for idiopathic intracranial hypertension
Review question  We attempted to find all of the published randomised controlled trials (RCT, a type of rigorous study that compares one treatment option against another) that investigated any treatment for idiopathic intracranial hypertension (IIH) in any patient group. We looked at a number of outcomes including reduction in vision, improvement of headache and quality of life. 
Background  IIH is a condition in which there is increased pressure inside the head without any detectable cause. IIH occurs most commonly in young women who are obese. Increased pressure inside the head often results in swelling of the optic disc (the point where the optic nerve meets the eye), which is called papilloedema. This swelling in turn causes a potential threat to sight. Different management options or treatments have been suggested for treating people with IIH, such as weight loss, drugs (e.g. diuretics) and surgery (e.g. surgery to the optic nerve, brain surgery to reduce the pressure or weight loss surgery). However, there is no consensus for how IIH should best be treated. 
Search date  We searched for all available trials up to 22 July 2015. 
Key results  We included two completed RCTs from the UK and US with a total of 211 participants and two ongoing studies. Both completed trials compared acetazolamide to placebo, together with a weight loss intervention in both groups. 
In these studies, change in the participant’s central vision was similar in the treatment and control groups as measured by a logMAR chart (a chart with rows of letters). The outcome for this review was reduction in CSF pressure to normal levels which was not reported by the two trials. In one study, people in the acetalozamide group on average experienced a greater reduction in papilloedema as assessed by fundus photographs between baseline and six months in the study eye. Both studies reported headache on visual analogue scales but results were inconclusive. In the study that reported adverse effects, the acetazolamide group was found to have a greater number of adverse effects compared to the placebo controls including diarrhoea, nausea, tinnitus and fatigue. One study reported that quality of life was better for the acetazolamide‐treated group. Costs were not reported in either study. 
Quality of evidence  Both completed trials had issues such as high loss to follow up and in one trial the participants and trial investigators knew what treatment was being received. The evidence was therefore judged to be of low quality. 
More higher‐quality RCTs are required in order to adequately assess the effect of acetazolamide therapy in IIH. 
