Low dose naltrexone for treatment of active Crohn’s disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn’s disease is a chronic inflammatory condition of the gut, which can affect people anywhere from the mouth to anus. Common symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhea and weight loss. People with Crohn's disease who are experiencing symptoms have 'active' disease. When the symptoms stop, it is called 'remission'. 
What is naltrexone? 
Naltrexone is a long‐acting opioid antagonist. It is a drug that counteracts the effects of opoid drugs. This drug is commonly used for the treatment of alcohol and opioid abuse and is taken by mouth. Specific hormones (proteins that transmit instructions in the body) that are known to be involved in pain response may be involved in the inflammation that underlies Crohn’s disease. Perhaps by giving people a low dose of naltrexone Crohn’s disease can be improved. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers studied the effectiveness and safety (i.e. side effects) of low dose naltrexone therapy for inducing remission in people with active Crohn's disease. 
What did the researchers find? 
This review identified two small randomized controlled trials that included a total of 46 participants. One study compared 12 weeks of treatment with low dose naltrexone (4.5 mg/day) to a placebo (i.e. a fake drug such as a sugar pill) in 34 adult patients with active Crohn’s disease. The other study compared eight weeks of treatment with low dose naltrexone (0.1 mg/kg up to a maximum 4.5 mg/day) to a placebo in 12 children with active Crohn's disease. The results from both studies were imprecise with regard to the proportion of patients who achieved clinical remission. The results of the study in adult patients suggest that low dose naltrexone may provide a benefit in terms of clinical response (i.e. an improvement in disease symptoms) and endoscopic response (i.e. a reduction in inflammation of the gut as shown by examining the gut with a scope). We could not tell whether low dose naltrexone led to specific side effects including sleep disturbance, unusual dreams, headache, decreased appetite, nausea and fatigue due to the low number of people who experienced these problems in the studies. The results of this review need to be interpreted with caution as they are based on small numbers of patients and the overall quality of the evidence was rated as low due to lack of precision of the results. Thus no firm conclusions can be made regarding the effectiveness and side effect profile of low dose naltrexone treatment for patients with active Crohn's disease. Further randomized controlled trials are required to assess the effectiveness and side effects of low dose naltrexone therapy in active Crohn's disease in both adults and children. 
