Cervical assessment by ultrasound for preventing preterm delivery
We set out to assess the effectiveness of knowing the cervical length, measured with ultrasound, for preventing preterm birth compared with not knowing the cervical length. 
What is the issue? 
The cervix is the lower part of the uterus that connects to the vagina. When women are not pregnant, it is normally at least 3 cm long. During pregnancy, a short cervical length is associated with a risk of spontaneous preterm birth. The shorter the cervical length, the greater the risk. Therefore, measuring cervical length by ultrasound can help predict spontaneous preterm birth. The cervical length is measured by an ultrasound scan through the vagina (transvaginal or TVU), abdomen (transabdominal), or the perineum (transperineal). The most common causes of spontaneous preterm birth are preterm labour or preterm premature rupture of the membranes. Many of the interventions used to prevent preterm birth are used once symptoms develop. 
Why is this important? 
Preterm birth before 37 weeks is the main cause of a newborn baby being sick and disabled, or dying. The cervix is the opening or passage through which the baby must pass before being born vaginally. Ultrasound can detect early changes of the cervix, such as shortening of the cervical length, to predict preterm birth. On identifying a short cervical length, interventions can be applied to prevent preterm birth. These interventions include giving the expectant mother progesterone to relax the uterus, or applying a stitch, known as a cerclage, to tighten the opening of the cervix. 
What evidence did we find? 
This review assessed if knowing the cervical length can prevent preterm birth. We included seven randomised controlled studies, which involved 923 pregnant women at 14 to 32 weeks' gestation. One study included expectant mothers with twins, without any symptoms of preterm birth or labour, and looked at the number of babies born prematurely before 36 weeks. Four studies included expectant mothers of single babies with threatened preterm labour, and one study involving women with premature rupture of the membranes looked at the safety of transvaginal ultrasound. One trial included expectant mothers with singleton pregnancies who did not have any symptoms of preterm birth or labour to look at the efficacy of transvaginal ultrasound cervical length screening. All studies used transvaginal ultrasound to assess cervical length. 
