'Third wave' cognitive and behavioural therapies versus treatment as usual for depression
Major depression is a very common condition in which people experience a persistently low mood and loss of interest in pleasurable activities, accompanied by a range of symptoms including weight loss, insomnia, fatigue, loss of energy, inappropriate guilt, poor concentration and morbid thoughts of death. Psychological therapies are an important and popular alternative to antidepressants in the treatment of depression. Many different psychological therapy approaches have been developed over the past century, including cognitive‐behavioural (CBT), behavioural, 'third wave' CBT, psychodynamic, humanistic and integrative therapies. 
In this review, we focused on third wave CBT approaches, a group of psychological therapies that target the process of thoughts (rather than their content, as in CBT), helping people to become aware of their thoughts and to accept them in a non‐judgemental way. The aim of the review was to find out whether third wave CBT was effective and acceptable to people in the acute phase of depression. The review included four studies, involving a total of 224 people. The studies examined three different forms of third wave CBT, consisting of extended behavioural activation (two studies), acceptance and commitment therapy (ACT) (one study) and another form of third wave CBT called competitive mind training (one study). Three of the studies compared third wave CBT approaches with treatment as usual control conditions. The fourth study compared ACT with a psychological placebo condition. The results suggested that third wave CBT approaches were effective on a short‐term basis in treating depression. However, the quality of evidence was very low because of the small number of studies/participants included in the review, together with the diverse client groups, interventions and control conditions used and possible allegiance of researchers towards the active treatments, making it difficult to draw conclusions with any confidence. It is notable, too, that none of the studies looked at the long‐term effect of third wave CBT approaches. Given the increasing popularity of third wave CBT approaches in clinical practice, further well‐designed studies should be prioritised to establish whether third wave CBT approaches are helpful in treating people with acute depression. 
