Actions to reduce medication errors in adults in primary care
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out the best way to reduce medication errors by primary healthcare professionals in adult patients that lead to hospital admissions, emergency department visits, and death. We wanted to know whether targeting individual health professionals (e.g. with educational materials and reminders about drug dosage etc.), changing the organisation of primary care (e.g. revising professional roles, such as nurse‐ or pharmacist‐led prescribing etc.), or structural actions, such as organising quality monitoring services can reduce medication errors by primary healthcare professionals. We collected and analysed relevant studies to answer this question and found 30 studies. 
Key messages 
The 30 studies (169,969 participants) in this Cochrane Review showed that actions aimed at reducing medication errors, such as medication reviews by pharmacists or physicians probably make little or no difference to the number of people admitted to hospital, number of hospital admissions, number of emergency department visits, or death. In general, all the actions described in the review were found to have unclear benefits. We did not find any studies that fitted the criteria of structural actions. The main limitation of this review is the small number of studies addressing each method and the low‐certainty of the evidence. 
What was studied in the review? 
Prescribing medications is one of the most powerful tools available to general practitioners (GPs) in the prevention and treatment of disease. Medication‐related adverse events could be the result of people either experiencing adverse drug reactions (not usually preventable) or as a result of medication errors (usually preventable). We studied the effectiveness of professional and organisational methods compared to standard care in primary care settings (examples of primary care settings include general practices, community pharmacies, patient homes, community settings, outpatient clinics, and aged‐care facilities) to reduce preventable medication errors that lead to hospital admissions, emergency department visits, and death in adults who are prescribed medication in primary care. 
