The use of erythropoietin plus iron to correct anaemia before surgery to reduce the risk of blood transfusion 
Background 
Erythropoietin is a hormone produced by the kidneys. It stimulates the bone marrow to produce more red blood cells (RBCs). Erythropoietin is frequently used to correct anaemia caused by a reduced number of red blood cells or low haemoglobin concentration in cases of chronic renal failure. The haemoglobin in red blood cells carries oxygen around the body.  
Adult patients undergoing non‐cardiac surgery, such as bone (orthopaedic) surgery, have blood tests before surgery to check their general health. Many individuals are found to be anaemic, which means they may need RBC transfusions with donor blood before, during, or after surgery to increase their haemoglobin concentrations. Giving donor blood can cause an allergic reaction such as a rash, headache, fever, raised blood pressure, temporary loss of kidney function, and blood clotting. If it is possible to diagnose the cause of the anaemia before the operation, then erythropoietin can be used together with iron to treat most of the causes of anaemia. 
Review question 
We wanted to know whether erythropoietin therapy in combination with iron before surgery is effective in reducing the need for RBC transfusions in the immediate recovery period in anaemic adults undergoing non‐cardiac surgery, compared to not giving the treatment. 
Erythropoietin therapy can be given by injection below the skin (subcutaneously) or into a vein (intravenously). Iron can be given by mouth (delivered into the gut) or intravenously. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 12 randomized controlled trials involving a total of 1880 adult participants who were anaemic. The participants were randomly1 assigned to a treatment group receiving erythropoietin and iron or a control group. The control group received either placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment with or without iron. We looked at the following outcomes: haemoglobin concentrations, need for transfusion, the amount of RBC units transfused per participant, adverse events, and any deaths. Erythropoietin was given either in a low dose (150 to 300 international units (IU)/kg body weight) or high dose (500 to 600 IU/kg body weight). 
The evidence is current to August 2019.
Key results 
We found that giving erythropoietin with iron supplementation reduces the need for RBC transfusions amongst participants (12 studies; 1880 participants). Higher doses of erythropoietin with iron increased haemoglobin concentrations before surgery (7 studies; 1186 participants), but at lower doses any effect was unclear. The number of units of RBCs required was not changed. 
Adverse events did not differ between study groups (10 studies; 1722 participants). Only two studies reported on deaths, with no apparent differences between groups. 
