Intervention to improve fracture healing in adults
Broken bones (fractures) that do not heal or unite quickly or completely can result in significant pain and loss of function. This may affect the person's ability to work and an associated reduction in their quality of life. There is also a considerable economic burden to society associated with delayed union (healing) or nonunion of fractures. The intervention tested in this review is bone morphogenetic protein (BMP). This is produced naturally by the body and it has been shown to play an important role in bone and cartilage formation. The review set out to find whether BMP applied at the fracture site can help to speed up and improve fracture healing. 
The review included 11 trials. All were flawed which means that their results may be biased. Four trials involved people with acute fractures of the tibia (shin bone). Evidence from these trials showed that BMP may enhance healing of these fractures, and that people with these fractures when treated with BMP required fewer subsequent procedures. Six trials testing BMP for fractures that had not healed during first course of treatment (nonunions) showed BMP was neither better or worse at healing than bone grafts. One small trial found no difference between BMP and done grafts in people whose bone had been cut so in order to treat a healed but misaligned fracture. Trial participants who received BMP experienced similar adverse effects to those no receiving BMP (infection, hardware failure, heterotopic bone formation and immunogenic reactions). However, patients given BMP instead of bone autografts will have avoided problems associated with extraction of the bone from another site in their body. 
The review also included four economic evaluations. Three of these found that the costs associated with using BMP, based on one large trial of acute open tibia fractures, were likely to be higher than standard care treatment without BMP. The difference in costs decreased with increased fracture severity. 
