Steroid avoidance or withdrawal for kidney transplant recipients
What is the issue? 
Each year more than 28,000 kidney transplants are performed globally. Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice for eligible people who have lost kidney function. Most kidney transplant recipients receive corticosteroids as part of their immunosuppression treatment. Steroids are effective in preventing acute rejection, which is a major problem in the early period after kidney transplantation. However, steroids can also lead to serious side effects when taken long‐term. This review looked at two strategies to reduce steroid administration after kidney transplantation: either discontinuing steroids soon after transplantation (within 14 days) or stopping steroid treatment later. 
What did we do? 
We searched the literature up to February 2016 and identified 48 studies (7803 patients) that were evaluated in this review. Only three studies included children. This is an update of a review that was last published in 2009. 
What did we find? 
Our review looked at data relating to 7803 kidney transplant recipients. We assessed the risk of bias in all studies and found that most were unblinded, about half did not report funding sources or how they randomised and allocated study participants. 
We found that the risk of acute rejection significantly increased with both steroid‐reducing treatments among adults who received kidney transplants. There was no little or no difference in the numbers of deaths or loss of transplanted kidneys for both steroid‐reducing strategies within five years after kidney transplantation. Side effects, such as infection, cancer or diabetes after transplantation did not differ between groups of patients whose steroids were discontinued compared with those who continued to take steroids. The effect of steroid withdrawal in children is unclear. 
Conclusions 
There was no evidence to suggest a difference in patient mortality or graft loss up to five year after transplantation, but longer‐term consequences of steroid avoidance and withdrawal still remain unclear. 
