Interventions to prevent asthma attacks in children upon return to school in the autumn
Background 
Asthma is a long‐term condition affecting the lungs. It is the most common long‐term condition affecting children. One in 11 children in the United Kingdom have asthma. People with asthma can experience asthma 'attacks' of coughing, wheezing, and difficulty breathing. 
Each year there is a peak in asthma attacks after school restarts in autumn. The likely reason for this is that children are exposed to more viruses that can trigger asthma. Children may also have taken their regular medication less consistently with the break in routine over the summer. 
As this increase in attacks at the start of the school year is predictable, and the reason for it is somewhat understood, it might be preventable. Approaches to reducing autumn asthma attacks include using extra medications when school restarts or medication reminders during the school holiday. 
Main findings 
Our searches found 546 trials, of which five were relevant. In total, 14,252 children were randomly assigned to receive either an intervention targeting autumn asthma attacks or usual care. Four small studies (approximately 200 to 1200 children in each) gave children extra asthma medication; these additional medications were omalizumab, leukotriene receptor antagonist tablets, or increased doses of inhaled steroids. One study sent a medication reminder letter over the summer holidays to parents of children with asthma. 
One trial gave children either omalizumab or placebo. Omalizumab is an antibody designed to alter the immune response. It was given by injection regularly over four to six weeks before school return (i.e. over the bulk of the summer holidays). The children in this study had known allergic asthma. The study showed that omalizumab might reduce autumn attacks. Eleven per cent of those receiving omalizumab had an asthma attack during the first 90 days compared to 21% of those receiving placebo. 
Three studies used leukotriene receptor antagonist tablets, either montelukast or pranlukast. Although the results of one study suggested that seasonal montelukast might reduce autumn attacks, there was no evidence of reduced attacks in the other two later trials, including a second larger trial of montelukast. 
There was no evidence that sending a reminder letter reduces the number of children requiring an unplanned healthcare contact. 
No study provided evidence that the total number of children experiencing adverse events was greater in the intervention than in the usual care group. 
