Metformin for endometrial hyperplasia
Review question 
Is metformin an effective and safe treatment for people with endometrial hyperplasia?
Background 
Endometrial cancer (cancer of the lining of the womb) is a common cancer that affects the reproductive organs in women worldwide. Endometrial hyperplasia is a precancerous condition in women that can lead to endometrial cancer, if left untreated. Successful treatment of women with endometrial hyperplasia can prevent endometrial cancer. Endometrial hyperplasia is usually treated by providing progesterone hormone tablets, inserting the levonorgestrel intrauterine system (Mirena Coil) into the womb, advising overweight women to lose weight, or performing a hysterectomy for women who do not want any future pregnancy. However, progesterone tablets are associated with side effects in up to 84% of women, and this can prevent women from completing treatment. Also, progesterone tablets do not always work, and endometrial hyperplasia can return in up to 14% to 30% of women after treatment. The Mirena Coil is associated with irregular vaginal bleeding in up to 82% of women, and many women find it painful to use or otherwise unacceptable. Therefore, an alternative treatment for endometrial hyperplasia is required. Metformin, an oral tablet that usually is used to treat diabetes, has been shown to cure endometrial hyperplasia in some human studies. Although people taking metformin may experience side effects, treatment is usually well tolerated. If women experience fewer side effects when taking metformin rather than progesterone tablets, and if metformin effectively treats endometrial hyperplasia, then compliance will be better and the cure rate will improve. This could reduce the number of women who end up with endometrial cancer. However, the effectiveness and safety of metformin used to treat women with endometrial hyperplasia remain uncertain. 
Study characteristics 
We included three randomised controlled trials in which a total of 77 women took part. Two studies compared metformin versus megestrol acetate (a form of progesterone), and one study compared metformin plus megestrol acetate versus megestrol acetate alone. Women in all studies received treatment for approximately 12 weeks. The evidence is current to 10 January 2017. 
Key results 
Comparisons of metformin versus megestrol acetate have provided insufficient evidence to show differences in effectiveness for curing endometrial hyperplasia. It remains uncertain whether there is any difference between metformin and megestrol acetate in reducing hysterectomy rates or abnormal uterine bleeding in women with endometrial hyperplasia. Although both studies provided data on progression of endometrial hyperplasia to endometrial cancer, there were no events in either arm, and study authors reported no data on adverse effects. 
When metformin plus megestrol acetate is compared with megestrol acetate, differences in effectiveness between groups treating endometrial hyperplasia remain unclear. Three of eight patients in the metformin plus megestrol acetate study arm reported nausea. Occurrence of other adverse events is unclear. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of evidence as very low for all outcomes owing to very serious risk of bias (associated with poor reporting, attrition, and limitations in study design) and imprecision. 
