Clonidine for painful procedures and conditions in infants
Review question: does clonidine administration reduce pain in newborns exposed to painful procedures or conditions? 
Background: newborns admitted to the hospital are exposed to a number of painful procedures which might include blood sampling, lumbar puncture (a medical procedure where a needle is inserted into the spinal canal, usually to collect cerebrospinal fluid for testing), tubes in the stomach, different types of catheters, and minor surgical procedures such as neonatal circumcision. In addition, newborns might have pain because of clinical conditions, such as, fractured bone, pain following traumatic vaginal birth, disease of the skin (open skin lesions from an inherited skin disorder), or intestines (necrotising enterocolitis (inflammation)). All babies, and especially those born too early (preterm), are very sensitive to pain. Moreover, the experience of repeated episodes of pain might cause problems, such as an altered development of the nervous system, in early life and an increased pain sensitivity when they grow up. Most of the medicines to manage pain and stress in babies have side effects, and might also harm the immature developing brain by inducing death of cells (apoptosis) in the brain. 
Study characteristics: we searched for studies up to 11 March 2020. The aim of this review was to assess if clonidine could reduce pain in newborns. This medicine can be given through injections, using a tube in the stomach (nasogastric tube), through the skin, and as spinal anaesthesia. However, the latter is not in the focus of this review as it is used for babies undergoing specific surgical procedures. Clonidine works on the brain modifying responses and reducing stress and agitation. Furthermore, clonidine may reduce pain, especially if used in combination with other medicines. 
Key results: we found no studies for our review. Three studies were excluded because clonidine was given for spinal anaesthesia, whereas our review focuses on other indications. 
