Perioperative interventions in pelvic organ prolapse surgery
A wide variety of interventions are undertaken at prolapse surgeries; however data are lacking and consensus has not been reached on the efficacy of these interventions. The most reliable evidence is likely to come from randomised controlled trials, and this is the basis for this review. 
Review questions 
• Which perioperative interventions reduce rates of intraoperative and postoperative complications? 
• Which perioperative interventions improve outcomes of surgery performed for pelvic organ prolapse? 
Background 
Surgery for pelvic organ prolapse is commonly performed and a variety of perioperative interventions are undertaken to improve outcomes of surgery. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane review authors evaluated randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared prolapse surgery with and without any perioperative (before, during, or after) interventions. The evidence is current to 30 November 2017. Reviewers included 15 trials that evaluated eight different interventions related to prolapse surgery. Although primary outcomes of the review were objective failure (recurrence of prolapse on examination) and awareness of prolapse, reviewers also measured adverse effects, focusing on intraoperative blood loss, intraoperative ureteral injury, postoperative urinary tract infection, and repeat surgery. 
Key results 
Reviewers found very little evidence on perioperative interventions in pelvic organ prolapse surgery. Few trials reported primary outcomes. A structured programme of pelvic floor muscle training before and after surgery did not consistently demonstrate any benefit for the intervention. With regard to other preoperative interventions, neither bowel preparation nor detailed preoperative mapping demonstrated significant benefit when compared to usual care. 
Intraoperative interventions such as injection of a vasoconstrictor agent, ureteral stent placement during uterosacral ligament suspension, or placement of a vaginal pack did not demonstrate benefit for reduced blood loss or rate of urinary tract infection or injury to the ureter. 
Vaginal packing postoperatively did not reduce the rate of haematoma (collection of blood) when compared to prolapse surgery without packing in a single trial. The rate of postoperative urinary tract infection was not reduced by use of a vaginal pack, prophylactic antibiotics, or vaginal dilators. 
