Yoga versus non‐standard care for schizophrenia
Review question 
Is yoga an effective add‐on treatment compared to other add‐on treatments for people with schizophrenia? 
Background 
Yoga comes from ancient India and involves physical postures and breathing exercises to promote balance between mind and body. Yoga has now been widely adopted as a method of relaxation and exercise, improving strength, flexibility, co‐ordination, endurance, and breathing control and concentration. Yoga has also been shown to reduce stress and promote health and feelings of well‐being. Yoga has been used as a complementary therapy for many health conditions, including improving blood pressure control as well as mental health conditions such as depression and anxiety disorders. 
Some research suggests that yoga could also be of benefit as an add‐on treatment to reduce the complex symptoms of the serious mental illness schizophrenia (such as hearing voices, seeing things, lack of interest in people and activities, tiredness, loss of emotions and withdrawal), and improve the quality of life of people with schizophrenia. The effectiveness of yoga versus other available (non‐drug and non‐talking therapy) add‐on treatments is under‐researched. 
Searching for evidence 
We ran electronic searches for trials (latest search was in March 2017) for trials that randomised people with schizophrenia to receive yoga or another add‐on treatment. One thousand and thirty four records were found and checked by the review authors. 
Evidence found 
Six trials with 586 participants met the review requirements and provided useable data. Other add‐on treatments consisted of other forms of exercise only. There is little evidence currently available, is low quality, and suggests that yoga is no more effective than other add‐on treatments for schizophrenia. 
Conclusions 
Current evidence from randomised controlled trials shows yoga is no more effective than other add on treatments for schizophrenia, but the only available comparators to yoga were other forms of exercise. The evidence is weak as the number of studies available was small, and only short‐term follow‐up was reported. More, larger, and long‐term trials that compare yoga with other alternatives to exercise are therefore necessary. 
