The effect of psychological preparation on pain, behavioural recovery, negative emotion and length of stay after surgery 
Background 
The way people think and feel before surgery can affect how they feel and what they do after surgery. For example, research shows that people who feel more anxious before their surgery experience more pain after it. A review conducted in 1993 looked at the impact of psychological preparation on outcomes after surgery. The term `psychological preparation' includes a range of techniques that aim to change what people think, how they feel or what they do. This 1993 review found that psychological preparation techniques reduced pain after surgery, improved behavioural recovery (how quickly people return to activities), decreased length of stay in hospital and reduced negative emotion (e.g. feelings of anxiety or depression). We aimed to carry out an up‐to‐date review using Cochrane methodology to learn whether there are helpful (or harmful) effects of psychological preparation for people undergoing surgery, and which outcomes (pain after surgery, behavioural recovery, negative emotion or length of stay) are improved. 
Study characteristics 
We included studies of adults who received planned surgery with general anaesthesia. We looked at seven psychological preparation techniques: procedural information (information about what, when and how processes will happen); sensory information (what the experience will feel like and what other sensations they may have, e.g. taste, smell); behavioural instruction (telling patients what they need to do); cognitive intervention (techniques that aim to change how people think); relaxation techniques; hypnosis; and emotion‐focused interventions (techniques that aim to help people to manage their feelings). The psychological preparation had to be delivered before surgery for the study to be included in the review. We included studies that looked at the effect of psychological preparation on pain, behavioural recovery, length of stay and negative emotion after surgery (within one month). Studies were included in the review up to the search date of 4 May 2014. We updated the search on 7 July 2015 and will incorporate the 38 studies found in this later search when the review is updated. We included 105 studies from 115 papers, with 10,302 participants taking part. Sixty‐one studies measured the outcome pain, 14 behavioural recovery, 58 length of stay and 49 negative emotion. In accordance with the review protocol, we did not record details about funding sources. 
Key results 
In this review we included 105 studies, which were reported in 115 papers. A total of 10,302 participants were randomized in these studies. For pain, length of stay and negative emotion we combined numerical findings from the studies. We found that psychological preparation before surgery seemed to reduce pain and negative emotion after the operation and may reduce the time spent in hospital by around half a day but the quality of the evidence was low. Also, the studies used many different psychological preparation techniques (often in different combinations) so it was not possible to discover which techniques were better. We could not statistically combine numerical findings for behavioural recovery because few studies provided sufficient details and studies used different ways of measuring how quickly people returned to usual activities. In reviewing the studies, we found that psychological preparation, in particular behavioural instruction, may have the potential to improve behavioural recovery. However, the quality of this evidence was very low. We looked at the effect of psychological preparation on pain, behavioural recovery, length of stay and negative emotion in this review and did not find evidence to suggest that psychological preparation might lead to harm in these outcomes. However, as we did not look at other outcomes it is possible that we did not identify potential harm. 
Quality of the evidence 
Many studies were poorly reported, so we could not be confident that findings were reliable. For this reason and because of the large variation in psychological techniques, types of surgery and measures used, we graded the quality of the evidence as `low' for the outcomes pain, negative emotion and length of stay; we cannot be confident that these techniques help patients to recover from surgery. For behavioural recovery, we further downgraded the quality of the evidence to `very low' because of problems with measurement and reporting of the outcome. 
