Antibiotics for community‐acquired pneumonia in adolescent and adult outpatients
Review question 
This review studied the effects of antibiotics on adolescents and adults with pneumonia acquired and treated in the community (as opposed to acquiring pneumonia in hospital and/or being treated for pneumonia in hospital). The evidence is current to March 2014. 
Background 
Lower respiratory tract infection is the third leading cause of death worldwide and the first leading cause of death in low‐income countries. Pneumonia, or infection of the lungs, is a common condition representing a significant disease burden for the community. Pneumonia is especially life‐threatening in children younger than five years, in older people and in people with other illnesses that may affect their immune system (such as diabetes or HIV/AIDS, or solid organ transplant recipients). Antibiotics are the most common treatment for pneumonia and these can vary in their effectiveness and adverse effects. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 11 trials (with 3352 participants older than 12 years with a diagnosis of community‐acquired pneumonia), fully published in peer‐reviewed journals, focused on treatment of pneumonia in adolescents and adults treated in the community in outpatient settings. This included five new trials included since our last review published in 2009. None of the trials included antibiotics versus placebo; all trials included one or more antibiotics. All participants were diagnosed with pneumonia based upon clinical diagnosis by the physician and chest X‐ray. 
Study funding sources 
All included trials were well conducted; nine of the 11 trials were sponsored by bio‐pharmaceutical companies manufacturing the antibiotics used in the study, or their authors were closely linked with the company. 
Key results 
Nine of the included trials compared different antibiotics and, hence, we could not combine the results of the individual trials to present our overall conclusion. There were some notable adverse events in seven studies: 1) erythromycin demonstrated significant gastrointestinal side effects compared to clarithromycin in two studies; 2) nemonoxacin demonstrated higher gastrointestinal (nausea, diarrhoea) and nervous system (dizziness, headache) adverse events compared to levofloxacin; 3) cethromycin demonstrated more side effects, especially a distortion of the sense of taste, than clarithromycin; 4) gastritis and diarrhoea were more common in the high‐dose amoxicillin group (1 g three times a day) compared to the other three antibiotic groups (clarithromycin, azithromycin and levofloxacin). 
