Is antibiotic prophylaxis effective or safe for women undergoing operative vaginal delivery? 
We set out to assess from randomised controlled studies whether giving antibiotics to all women undergoing operative vaginal deliveries prevents infections in the mother without increasing adverse outcomes in the mother and baby. Vacuum extraction or forceps are used to deliver the baby’s head in operative vaginal deliveries. 
What is the issue? 
Women who undergo vacuum‐ or forceps‐assisted vaginal births may be more likely to have an infection after the birth when compared to women who experience a normal spontaneous vaginal birth. They are also more likely to be re‐admitted to hospital. Women are at increased risk of infection because of the need for routine bladder catheterisation, multiple vaginal examinations, insertion of instruments into the vagina, and increased risk of vaginal deep cuts or tears during the operative birth. Infection appears as fever, infection of the uterus and surrounding tissues, an infected episiotomy or vaginal tear, or urinary tract infection. These affect the physical state of the mother and can impact on her well‐being. The infection may also enter the bloodstream and affect the whole body. 
Why is this important? Vacuum extraction or forceps are used to shorten labour from the time when the cervix is fully opened to birth (second stage of labour), particularly if this is long or the baby shows signs of distress. Antibiotics can be given to mothers at the time of birth to prevent or reduce the risk of infection. However, there are still some doubts about the benefit of such antibiotics. Antibiotics can also cause adverse reactions such as rash or diarrhoea in the mother, and may be present in breast milk so that a breastfeeding baby is exposed to them. 
What evidence did we find? 
We updated our search for evidence from randomised controlled studies in July 2019. We included two studies, published in 1989 and 2019. The older study was conducted in the USA and the more recent study was from a number of hospital obstetric units in the UK. A total of 3813 women undergoing operative vaginal delivery were included. The USA study involved 393 women and compared 2 g of intravenous cefotetan after cord clamping with no treatment. The other study involved 3420 women. This study compared intravenous amoxicillin and clavulanic acid with placebo. The certainty of the evidence varied from high certainty to low, with low certainty being downgraded because of concerns relating to imprecise results, with few events and only a single study reporting on a number of the findings.  Prophylactic antibiotics given to reduce or prevent infection halved the number of women with infected episiotomies or lacerations. These findings included superficial and deep perineal wound infections (one study, 3420 women; high‐certainty evidence) or wound breakdown (one study, 2593 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). Serious infectious complications were also reduced (one study, 3420 women; high‐certainty evidence). Due to low‐certainty evidence, prophylactic antibiotics had uncertain effects on endometritis, experienced as fever and uterine tenderness or heavy bleeding (two studies, 3813 women; low‐certainty evidence) and infected episiotomy/laceration presenting with organ or space perineal infection (one study, 3420 women; low‐certainty evidence).  The impact on maternal adverse reactions (one study, 2593 women; low‐certainty evidence) and maternal length of stay in hospital (one study, 393 women; low‐certainty evidence) was also unclear due to the low‐certainty of the study. Perineal pain and health consequences of perineal pain were slightly reduced. Prophylactic antibiotics did not have a clear effect on pain during sex and breastfeeding at six weeks. Maternal hospital re‐admission and maternal health‐related quality of life may be slightly improved. Costs were reduced with use of prophylactic antibiotics. Neither study specifically measured fever, urinary tract infection or adverse reactions in babies. 
