Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy versus bilateral neck exploration for primary hyperparathyroidism in adults 
Review question 
Is minimally invasive parathyroidectomy a better surgical treatment compared to classic bilateral neck exploration for people with sporadic primary hyperparathyroidism? 
Background 
Primary hyperparathyroidism is a condition where one or more of the four parathyroid glands (pea‐sized glands located behind or in the thyroid gland in the neck) may enlarge and produce excess parathyroid hormone, a hormone that normally controls calcium and bone metabolism. Excess production of parathyroid hormone results in high blood calcium levels as calcium is drawn out of bones, resulting in increased risk of osteoporosis (weakened bones) and kidney stones. The word 'primary' means that this disorder originates in parathyroid glands and is mostly due to a benign excessive growth of parathyroid cells. Most but not all people with primary hyperparathyroidism have no symptoms. Surgery to remove the diseased parathyroid gland(s) (called parathyroidectomy) is the first‐line therapy for people who develop symptoms, namely fractures and kidney stones. Minimally invasive parathyroidectomy is a shorter simpler procedure that uses scans to identify the diseased glands with potentially lower complication risk than bilateral neck exploration (where both sided of the neck are explored to identify which of the four glands are diseased). 
Study characteristics 
We identified five randomised controlled trials (clinical studies in which people are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) enrolling a total of 266 adults with primary hyperparathyroidism, who were assigned to one of two surgical techniques (136 participants to the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group and 130 to the bilateral neck exploration group). One of the studies followed up participants up to five years, but the rest reported data until one year. 
Key results 
Within six months, operative success as measured by normal blood calcium levels after operation, was found in 97% of participants in the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group compared with 99% in the bilateral neck exploration group. Five years after the surgery the proportions were 90% in the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group compared to 95% in the bilateral neck exploration group. About 17% of participants in the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group reported unwanted events around the time of the operation compared with 34% in the bilateral neck exploration group. These events consisted mostly of symptoms of low calcium levels (such as numbness, tingling cramps) occurring in 14% of the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group and in 27% in the bilateral neck exploration group. A total of 5/133 (4%) participants in the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy group experienced vocal cord paralysis compared with 2/128 (2%) participants in the bilateral neck exploration group. Other events included bleeding, fever and infection, which were comparable in both groups. The effect on death from any cause was not explicitly reported. There were no clear differences for health‐related quality of life between the treatment groups in two studies. There was a possible treatment benefit for minimally invasive parathyroidectomy compared to bilateral neck exploration in terms of cosmetic satisfaction. The duration of surgery was 18 minutes less for the minimally invasive parathyroidectomy technique compared with bilateral neck exploration. Four studies reported a switch from minimally invasive parathyroidectomy to bilateral neck exploration during the operation where 24/115 (21%) participants underwent the more extensive surgery. 
