Pancreatic enzyme supplements for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about how good pancreatic enzyme replacement therapy (PERT) is in overcoming the enzyme deficiency in people with cystic fibrosis (CF) and if there are any side effects. 
Background 
Between 80% and 90% of people with CF take PERT because their pancreas can not make the enzymes needed to digest food. As a result, children may fail to gain weight and thrive; while adults may lose weight and become malnourished as they do not absorb vitamins properly. In people with CF, malnutrition is linked to poorer general health, more severe lung disease and shorter life expectancy. If their pancreas is not making enough enzymes, people with CF can also experience painful, frequent, bulky, offensive bowel movements. PERT is needed to help gain weight, prevent malnutrition and avoid some vitamin deficiencies, as well as to control bowel symptoms. This is an updated version of the review. 
Search date 
We last searched for evidence: 26 December 2019.
Study characteristics 
We assessed 14 trials (641 adults and children with CF); 13 trials gave treatment for four weeks and one for seven weeks. Trials compared different formulations of PERT, some were treated to delay the release of the medication until they passed from the stomach into the intestine, while others were not. In 12 trials participants took both types of supplement for four weeks each, although the order in which they took them was random. These factors made it difficult to analyse trial results. Most of the trials were old; the most recent was from 2017, but the oldest was from 1986. 
Key results 
We are uncertain whether any PERT formulation is better than another for improving any of our most important outcomes (weight, height or body mass index). In two trials (41 participants) those taking delayed‐release microspheres (miniature drug capsules) had less fat in their poo than those taking delayed‐release tablets (normal size); they also had less abdominal pain and did not need to go to the toilet as often. In a different trial (12 participants), those taking the delayed‐release microspheres also had less fat in their poo than those taking delayed‐release supplements. We also found that in a large trial (128 participants), people taking PERT not made from animal enzymes had less fat in their poo than those taking PERT made from pigs' enzymes. We found no difference between any of the different PERT formulations for any other bowel symptoms (e.g. abdominal pain, flatulence, constipation), quality of life, side effects or for any measure of lung disease. None of the trials reported the number of days in hospital or the incidence of vitamin deficiency. 
We did not find any evidence on different dose levels of PERT needed for people who produce different levels of pancreatic enzymes, on the best time to start treatment or for the amounts of supplements based on differences in type of food eaten and meal sizes. A properly designed trial is needed to answer these questions. 
