Different types of dietary advice for women with gestational diabetes mellitus
What is the issue? 
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is a carbohydrate intolerance resulting in excess of sugar in the blood (hyperglycaemia) that begins or is first recognised during pregnancy. Dietary counselling or advice is the main strategy for helping women manage GDM, but it is not clear what dietary advice is best. In this review we set out to determine what dietary advice for women with GDM is best for reducing health complications for women and their babies. 
Why is this important? 
Women with GDM are at increased risk of developing high blood pressure and pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure with swelling and protein in the urine) during pregnancy. The babies can grow large for their gestational age. As a result, they may be injured at birth, or cause injury to their mothers during the birth. The babies are more likely to have their birth induced or be born by caesarean section. Both the women and their babies are at increased risk of long‐term health problems including type 2 diabetes and disability. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the medical literature on 8 March 2016 and for this updated review we included 19 randomised controlled trials involving 1398 women with GDM and their babies. The overall risk of bias of the trials was unclear or moderate because of methodological limitations and the quality of the evidence was low or very low. The studies were generally small, few compared the same or similar interventions, and the outcomes they reported on were not comprehensive. 
Ten different dietary advice comparisons were included. These were: 1) a low‐moderate glycaemic index (GI) diet with a moderate‐high GI diet (four trials); 2) an energy‐restricted diet with a diet with no energy restriction (three trials); 3) a 'Dietary Approaches to Stop Hypertension (DASH)' diet rich in fruits, vegetables, whole grains and low‐fat dairy products with a control diet (three trials); 4) a low‐carbohydrate diet with a high‐carbohydrate diet (two trials); 5) a high unsaturated fat diet with a low unsaturated fat diet (two trials); 6) a low‐GI diet with a high‐fibre moderate‐GI diet (one trial); 7) diet recommendations and diet‐related behavioural advice with diet recommendations only (one trial); 8) a soy protein‐enriched diet with a diet with no soy protein (one trial); 9) a high‐fibre diet with a standard‐fibre diet (one trial); and 10) an ethnic‐specific diet with a standard healthy diet (one trial). 
The review found no clear differences between the different types of dietary advice on the number of women with high blood pressure during pregnancy including pre‐eclampsia (nine trials in six different diet comparisons), large‐for‐gestational age babies (eight trials in seven different diet comparisons), perinatal deaths including stillbirth and death around the time of the birth (three trials in two different diet comparisons), type 2 diabetes development for the mother (two trials in two different diet comparisons), and a composite outcome of neonatal deaths or ill‐health (one trial in one diet comparison). No clear difference was seen in the number of babies delivered by caesarean section (10 trials in eight different diet comparisons) except for a reduction with a DASH diet. None of the included trials reported on later disability during childhood for the babies. 
