Oral protein‐based nutritional supplement in people with chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis 
What is the issue? People with chronic kidney disease requiring dialysis are at risk of developing malnutrition for many reasons and often do not eat enough because their appetite is poor. Oral nutritional supplements are commonly provided to people who do not eat enough to meet their needs. Provision of nutritional supplements to dialysis patients requires careful consideration of potassium, phosphate and fluid limits. 
What did we do? We aimed to determine if giving oral protein‐based nutritional supplements improved serum albumin levels and other measures of nutrition. 
What did we find? A total of 1278 people took part in 22 studies that were included in this review to investigate the effects of oral protein‐based nutritional supplements. All participants were adults on maintenance dialysis (79% haemodialysis and 21% peritoneal dialysis). The studies lasted from one to 12 months. The findings suggest that giving oral protein‐based nutritional supplementation probably results in a slightly greater increase in albumin level and may improve prealbumin level and mid‐arm muscle circumference. The increase in albumin level was more evident in participants who were on haemodialysis and in those who were malnourished. It is uncertain whether oral protein‐based nutritional supplementation affects potassium and phosphate levels. Oral protein‐based nutritional supplements may result in little or no difference in the risk of developing abdominal symptoms.There were some differences between the quality of the studies and their designs. 
Conclusions The authors conclude that oral protein‐based nutritional supplements appear to be effective in improving some nutritional markers in people who need dialysis; however, it remains uncertain whether these results translate to meaningful outcomes for this population. More research is required to determine the cost‐effectiveness of this treatment, and if it can bring benefit to patients such as feeling better and living longer. 
