What is the best treatment for children with crowded teeth?
What are crowded teeth? 
When teeth erupt (come through the gum into the mouth), they may twist, stick out, drop back, or overlap if there is not enough space in the mouth. Losing baby teeth early from tooth decay or trauma can lead to crowded permanent teeth. If crowded teeth affect a child's self‐esteem or cause pain, damage or chewing problems, the child may be referred to a specialist dentist known as an orthodontist to correct them. Orthodontics is about the growth of the jaws and face, and development of the teeth and bite.  
What is orthodontic treatment? 
Crowded teeth can be prevented or corrected using braces if crowding is mild (less than 4 mm). Removal of some teeth (extraction) may also be needed if crowding is moderate (4 to 8 mm) or severe (more than 8 mm). Fixed braces are used on permanent teeth. Removable braces can be used on baby or permanent teeth, or both. Baby or permanent teeth can be extracted. 
Fixed braces 
Fixed braces attach parts to each tooth using dental glue, with brackets holding a wire that puts a force on the teeth, to move and straighten them. The wire is secured with metal ties, small rubber bands or a clip that is built into the bracket ('self‐ligating'). 
A lower lingual arch (LLA) or lip bumper (LB) retains the lower back teeth (molars) while allowing the lower front teeth to straighten and move forwards. To remove pressure on the teeth, a LLA wire lies on the inner side of the teeth; a LB wire lies on the outer side. The 0.9 mm stainless steel wires are attached to metal bands around the back (molar) teeth at either end, with the LB wire having a plastic coating at the front. 
Sometimes extra items are used with fixed braces, such as headgear (straps attached to a frame outside the mouth), vibrating plates or lacebacks (thin wires holding teeth together). 
Removable braces 
Removable braces are usually made from hard plastic that joins together active parts that move the teeth and clips that secure the brace. Some removable braces are made from moulded flexible plastic. 
The Schwarz appliance has a screw that is turned once a week by parents, to widen the arch of the lower jaw and make more space into which the permanant teeth can move. 
The eruption guidance appliance guides permanent teeth into a better position as they erupt. It is a combined upper and lower brace that holds the lower jaw forwards, and has guiding slots to align the front teeth and improve the side teeth bite. 
Extraction 
Baby eye teeth (canines) are extracted when children have a mix of adult and baby teeth, to provide space into which other teeth can move. 
