Probiotics to prevent gestational diabetes mellitus
We analysed evidence from randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) investigating probiotic supplements alone or in combination with drug or non‐drug interventions for preventing gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). 
What is the issue? 
GDM is a condition where the mother develops high blood sugar levels, usually after 13 weeks of pregnancy. GDM is different from type 2 diabetes in that blood sugar levels are normal before pregnancy, and the levels usually return to normal after pregnancy. GDM is associated with an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes later in life. Women with GDM are at increased risk of high blood pressure with protein in the urine (pre‐eclampsia) and instrumental delivery or caesarean section. Their infants are more likely to be born large for their gestational age. Probiotics are 'good bacteria' that are usually taken in the form of capsules or drinks to add to the gut bacteria. We are dependent on our gut bacteria to help digest our food, produce certain vitamins, regulate our immune system and keep us healthy by protecting us against disease‐causing bacteria. Probiotics could change a person's metabolism and play a role in the prevention of GDM.  
Why is this important? 
Women who are overweight or obese, had GDM in a previous pregnancy or have an immediate family member with diabetes are at increased risk of GDM. Current treatment for GDM includes diet with or without medication but does not always prevent the problems associated with GDM. Probiotics could be a simple method for preventing GDM. This review looked at whether there is evidence to show if this is true.  
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials in March 2020 and identified seven studies with 1647 pregnant women comparing probiotics with inactive placebo (pretend treatment). Two studies were in overweight and obese women, two in obese women and three did not exclude women based on their weight. The overall risk of bias was low except for one study where the risk of bias was unclear. 
It is unclear how probiotics affect the risk of developing GDM due to the wide variation in the results of six studies (1440 women, low‐quality evidence). Probiotics increase the risk of developing pre‐eclampsia (4 studies, 955 women; high‐quality evidence). Probiotics make little to no difference to the risk of needing a caesarean section (6 studies, 1520 women; high‐quality evidence), and probably make little to no difference to weight gain during pregnancy (4 studies, 853 women; moderate‐quality evidence) or to the risk of giving birth to a big baby (4 studies, 919 women; moderate‐quality evidence). None of the studies reported information about the risk of perineal trauma (tears during vaginal birth or a surgical incision (episiotomy)), postnatal depression or developing subsequent diabetes. 
