Multidisciplinary treatment at the early stages of low back pain
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of multidisciplinary treatments on pain, disability, and work status among people who had been experiencing low back pain for six to 12 weeks. We defined multidisciplinary treatments as treatments that target physical as well as psychological or social aspects of low back pain and involve a team of healthcare providers with different professional backgrounds and training. For example, a treatment that integrated exercise therapy provided by a physiotherapist with workplace adjustments provided by an ergonomist, a specialist in the design and setup of workplace equipment, would be considered to be multidisciplinary. 
Background 
Low back pain (LBP) is a condition that causes a great deal of pain and suffering across the world and also accounts for large costs to society due to healthcare spending and missed work. Previous research has shown that people who have back pain for more than three months are less likely to recover. As a result, there is increasing emphasis on the importance of intervening at the early stages of LBP. 
The purpose of this review was to discover whether multidisciplinary treatments were better or worse than other alternatives, such a usual care (i.e. current clinical practice) or other treatments (e.g. exercise therapy alone) for people experiencing low back pain for six to 12 weeks. 
Study Characteristics 
The search is current to July of 2016.
Five studies were conducted in Europe and four in North America. Sample sizes ranged from 33 to 351. The mean age across trials ranged between 32.0 and 43.7 years. The majority of studies included mixed samples of male and female participants. The authors had no concerns about funding sources of any included studies. 
Key Results 
Overall, we found that multidisciplinary treatments may be better than usual care for people with LBP for a duration of six to 12 weeks. Individuals receiving multidisciplinary treatment had less pain, less disability, increased likelihood of return‐to‐work and fewer sick leave days at 12‐month follow‐up. However, when comparing multidisciplinary treatments to other treatments (e.g. brief clinical intervention including education and advice on exercise), we found that multidisciplinary treatments may be no better than other treatments. Although we examined adverse events as a secondary outcome, none of the included studies reported this outcome. 
Quality of the Evidence 
The quality of the evidence for this review was generally low to very low. This was mainly due to small sample sizes and other study limitations. Moreover, we grouped together studies with differing interventions and comparisons. For example, some of the multidisciplinary interventions were quite intense (e.g. > 30 hours of treatment), whereas others were designed to be brief (e.g. < three hours). This variability across studies makes it more challenging to interpret the findings. 
In sum, there is a need for additional, large, high‐quality randomised controlled trials before we can make definitive recommendations for clinical practice. 
