Quantitative versus qualitative cultures of respiratory secretions in patients with ventilator‐associated pneumonia 
Review question  We wanted to determine whether quantitative cultures of respiratory secretions are effective in reducing mortality in immunocompetent patients with ventilator‐associated pneumonia compared with qualitative cultures. We also evaluated changes in antibiotic use, length of intensive care unit (ICU) stay and mechanical ventilation.  Background  Ventilator‐associated pneumonia (VAP) is a condition which occurs in patients mechanically ventilated for more than 48 hours, which can significantly increase the mortality of ICU patients. The best method for diagnosing VAP and identifying the causative organism (bacteria) is uncertain. Both invasive and non‐invasive techniques are used to obtain samples of respiratory secretions and these can be analysed quantitatively (with a threshold count of the bacterial growth to differentiate between infection and colonisation of the lower airways) or qualitatively (presence or absence of pathogenic germs in the culture). The rationale for using quantitative cultures of respiratory secretions sampled from patients with VAP is to differentiate the infectious organisms (those with a higher concentration) from colonising organisms (those with lower concentration), thereby optimising antibiotic therapy. 
Study characteristics  After reviewing 5064 articles we found three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (1240 participants) comparing invasive methods using quantitative cultures, versus the non‐invasive method using qualitative cultures. Two additional RCTs (127 participants) compared invasive versus non‐invasive methods, both using quantitative cultures. We combined all five RCTs (1367 participants) to compare invasive versus non‐invasive interventions for diagnosing VAP. 
Key results  The cumulative all‐cause mortality was 25.4% (159/626) in the qualitative group and 23.1% (142/614) in the quantitative group over the duration of the trials. There were no statistically significant differences between the use of quantitative cultures versus qualitative (risk ratio (RR) 0.91; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.75 to 1.11). When we analysed all five studies, a total of 1367 patients were included. The cumulative all‐cause mortality was 26.6% (184/692) in the non‐invasive group and 24.7% (167/675) in the invasive group over the duration of the trials. The invasive versus non‐invasive intervention analysis showed no evidence of mortality reduction (RR 0.93; 95% CI 0.78 to 1.11). The pooled data from trials did not show a significant influence on antibiotic change, but there was significant heterogeneity amongst the studies and the publication bias analysis for the antibiotic change analysis suggests that significant publication bias is likely (Egger's regression (intercept: 1.909; standard error: 0.436; P value (two‐sided): 0.048). The analysis did not show significant differences in days on mechanical ventilation and in the length of ICU stay between either the quantitative versus qualitative culture groups or the invasive versus non‐invasive method groups. 
Quality of the evidence  The body of evidence supports moderately robust conclusions regarding the objective of our review. We use the word moderately because the sample size was of moderate size, even though this was the largest sample size evaluated to date: five RCTs with a total of 1367 participants. The results were consistent with respect to the mortality outcome, days on ventilation and days in the ICU. However, the results were less consistent with respect to antibiotic change. 
