Which medicines are most effective for women trying to get pregnant by ‘intrauterine insemination’ (where sperm is placed directly in the womb)? 
Key messages 
‐ ‘Fertility medicines’ are the range of hormones and medicines used to help women get pregnant. This review shows that, in a comparison of two widely‐used fertility medicines – gonadotropins and anti‐oestrogens – gonadotropins probably increase the number of live births. 
‐ We have little to no confidence in the evidence comparing the effectiveness of other fertility medicines, both for live birth and multiple pregnancy (expecting more than one baby) rates. 
‐ To improve the evidence, future studies of intrauterine insemination (where sperm is placed directly in the womb) should compare fertility medicines with a placebo (dummy drug). More studies comparing anti‐oestrogens with aromatase inhibitors (another widely‐used fertility drug) are also needed. 
What is infertility? 
Infertility is when a woman is unable to get pregnant after 1 year (or longer) of regular, unprotected sex. Sometimes, doctors distinguish between older and younger women, since natural fertility declines with age. Some providers treat women aged 35 years or older for infertility after 6 months of unprotected sex. 
How is infertility treated? 
Treatment for infertility depends on what may be causing it. Our review focused on intrauterine insemination combined with various fertility medicines. Fertility medicines work by causing the release of hormones that prompt ovulation – that is, the release of an egg from the ovary. Intrauterine insemination is where sperm is placed directly into the uterus (womb) using a thin, flexible plastic tube inserted through the vagina and cervix. 
There are many different fertility medicines. The ones most commonly prescribed include:
‐ gonadotropins (injectable hormones started early in the menstrual cycle to cause multiple eggs to grow to a mature size); 
‐ anti‐oestrogens and aromatase inhibitors (oral medicines used to trigger ovulation);
‐ gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists and antagonists (medicines used to regulate egg development and ovulation). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out which fertility medicines, combined with intrauterine insemination, are most effective, for women who release an egg during menstruation (ovulatory women). 
We were interested in the effects of fertility medicines on:
‐ live births;
‐ multiple pregnancies;
‐ ‘clinical pregnancy’ (defined as evidence of a gestational sac, the fluid‐filled structure around a foetus, with a positive heartbeat); 
‐ miscarriages (defined as loss of pregnancy during the first 12 weeks);
‐ ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS, a condition where excess hormones can overstimulate the ovaries, leading to various complications); and 
‐ ectopic pregnancy, defined as a pregnancy outside the womb.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared different fertility medicines for ovulatory women having intrauterine insemination. 
We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 82 studies, involving 12,614 women. The women ranged from 18 to 44 years old. Slightly more than two‐thirds (57) of the studies included women or couples with unexplained infertility (the lack of an obvious cause of infertility), male infertility, endometriosis (a painful condition when tissue similar to the lining of the uterus grows outside the uterus), or more than one of these factors. 
The studies were conducted in 17 countries around the world, with more than half conducted in India, Iran, Italy, Spain and the USA. 
There were more than 20 different comparisons between the various fertility medicines.
Only around one‐fifth (17) of studies reported information about live birth rates.
Main results 
Gonadotropins compared to anti‐oestrogens (13 studies): probably increase the chance of live birth. If the chance of a live birth following anti‐oestrogens is assumed to be 22.8%, the chance following gonadotropins would be between 23.7% and 34.6%. 
We don’t know if gonadotropins make any difference to multiple pregnancy rate.
Aromatase inhibitors versus anti‐oestrogens (8 studies) 
We don’t know if aromatise inhibitors make any difference to:
· live birth rate; or
· multiple pregnancy rate.
Gonadotropins plus GnRH antagonists versus gonadotropins alone (14 studies) 
We don’t know if gonadotropins plus GnRH antagonists make any difference to:
· live birth rate; or
· multiple pregnancy rate.
Aromatase inhibitors versus gonadotropins (6 studies): may decrease the chance of a live birth. If the chance of a live birth following gonadotropins is assumed to be 31.9%, the chance following aromatase inhibitors would be between 13.7% and 25%. 
We don’t know if aromatase inhibitors make any difference to multiple pregnancy rate.
Aromatase inhibitors plus gonadotropins versus anti‐oestrogens plus gonadotropins (8 studies): 
We don’t know if aromatase inhibitors plus gonadotropins make any difference to:
· live birth rate; or
· multiple pregnancy rate.
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
Our confidence in the evidence ranged from very low to moderate. More than three‐quarters of the studies had weaknesses in their methods that could affect the reliability of their results, and many of the studies were small. 
