Radiation dose escalation for malignant glioma
BackgroundThis is an updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in Issue 8, 2016. High grade glioma (HGG) is a rapidly growing brain tumour (cancer) in the supporting cells of the nervous system, with several subtypes such as glioblastoma (grade IV astrocytoma), anaplastic (grade III) astrocytoma and anaplastic (grade III) oligodendroglioma. It affects about 5 in 100,000 people per year in Europe and North America. A number of studies have investigated the best strategy to give radiation to people with HGG, this review looks at these studies to see what they found. Due to toxicity, radiation is not given all in one day. In order to balance toxicity and tumour control, smaller doses of radiation are given over several days. 
Conventional radiotherapy involves giving daily radiation dose (called a fraction) of 180 cGy to 200 cGy per day. Hypofractionated radiotherapy refers to the use of a higher daily dose of radiation (greater than 200 cGy per day) which typically reduces the overall number of fractions and the overall treatment time. 
Hyperfractionated radiotherapy refers to the use of a lower daily dose of radiation (less than 180 cGy per day), a greater number of fractions and multiple fractions delivered per day to deliver a total dose at least equivalent to external beam daily conventionally fractionated radiotherapy (beam of radiation directed from outside the body), in the same time frame. The aim with this approach is to reduce the potential for late toxicity, which is a side affect occurring more than 3 month after treatment is completed. 
Accelerated radiotherapy (dose escalation) refers to the delivery of multiple fractions per day using daily doses of radiation consistent with external beam daily conventionally fractionated radiotherapy doses. The aim is to reduce the overall treatment time; typically, two or three fractions per day may be delivered with a six to eight hour gap between fractions. 
