Physical conditioning as part of a return to work strategy to reduce sickness absence for workers with back pain 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of physical conditioning as part of a return to work strategy in people with low back pain. We found 25 studies. 
Background 
The main goal of physical conditioning as part of a return to work strategy, sometimes called work conditioning, work hardening or functional restoration and exercise programmes, is to return injured or disabled workers to work or improve the work status for workers performing modified duties. Such programmes may also simulate or duplicate work or functional tasks, or both, using exercises in a safe, supervised environment. These exercises or tasks are structured and progressively graded to increase psychological, physical and emotional tolerance and to improve endurance and work feasibility. In such environments, injured workers improve their general physical condition through an exercise programme aimed at increasing strength, endurance, flexibility and cardiovascular fitness. We wanted to discover whether physical conditioning was more or less effective than usual care and other types of interventions like exercise therapy. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence was current to March 2012. We analysed 17 comparisons of physical conditioning as part of a return to work strategy. Some trials examined physical conditioning in addition to care as usual versus care as usual only, and others compared physical conditioning to other types of interventions such as standard exercise therapy. Participants had either acute back pain (duration of symptoms less than six weeks), subacute back pain (duration of symptoms more than six but less than 12 weeks), or chronic back pain (duration of symptoms more than 12 weeks). Participants were followed for anywhere from three weeks to three years. We divided physical conditioning into light or intense, depending on its intensity and duration. 
Key results 
Results showed that light physical conditioning has no effect on sickness absence duration for workers with subacute or chronic back pain. We found conflicting results for intense physical conditioning for workers with subacute back pain. Intense physical conditioning probably had a small effect on reducing sick leave at 12 months follow‐up compared to usual care for workers with chronic back pain. Involving the workplace, or physical conditioning being part of integrated care management may have had a positive effect on reducing sick leave, but this needs further research. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate. Although 16 of the included studies were well designed and had no major flaws, some studies were poorly conducted and the small number of participants in most studies lowered the overall quality of the evidence. 
