Psychosocial therapy for recurrent abdominal pain in childhood
Review question 
Do psychosocial therapies reduce pain in children and adolescents with recurrent abdominal pain? 
Background 
Between 4% and 25% of school‐aged children complain of recurrent abdominal pain severe enough to interfere with their daily activities. No organic cause for this pain can be found on physical examination or investigation for the majority of such children. Although many children are managed by reassurance and simple measures, a large range of psychological and behavioural ('psychosocial') therapies have been recommended. 
Methods and study characteristics 
As of June 2016, we identified 18 randomised controlled trials (a type of scientific experiment in which people are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatments), which included 928 children and adolescents between the ages of 6 and 18 years. These studies compared a range of psychosocial therapy to usual care or some form of non‐therapy control (such as education or breathing exercises). We identified four different kinds of psychosocial therapy: cognitive behavioural therapy, hypnotherapy, yoga, and written self‐disclosure (a therapy that involves writing down thoughts and feelings about something distressing). The duration of the included studies ranged from five days to three months. The studies were conducted in the USA, Australia, Canada, the Netherlands, Germany, and Brazil. 
Key results 
We found that cognitive behavioural therapy and hypnotherapy may be effective in terms of reducing pain in the short term. There was little evidence of long‐term benefit. There was no evidence that either therapy had a beneficial effect on quality of life, daily activities, or psychological outcomes such as anxiety and depression. Yoga therapy and written self‐disclosure as a therapy had no effect on pain, quality of life, or daily activities. No adverse effects were reported from any of these therapies. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the overall quality of the evidence as low to very low for all outcomes. Many of the studies had small sample sizes or weaknesses in their study design. The authors reported no conflicts of interest in relation to funding. 
