Valproate for schizophrenia
Review question 
To review the effects of adding valproate to an anitpyschotic for the treatment of schizophrenia and schizophrenia‐like illnesses. 
Background 
The main treatment for schizophrenia is antipsychotic medication. Despite this treatment, about 30% of people will continue to experience some signs of illness. Other drugs are sometimes added to antipsychotic medication to attempt to reduce the symptoms that people experience. Valproate is one such drug and is typically used to treat epilepsy, to stabilise mood in people who have bipolar disorder and for people who have both schizophrenia and mood disorder (schizoaffective disorder). 
Study characteristics 
The review includes 26 studies, found through electronic searching of relevant databases, with a total of 2184 participants. All trials examined the effectiveness of valproate as an add on to antipsychotics. With the exception of two studies, the studies were small, and most of them were short‐term and poorly reported. 
Key results 
Data from the included trials showed that participants receiving valproate plus an antipsychotic had better clinical response, compared to those taking an antipsychotic with a placebo. However, this advantage was lost when lower‐quality trials were taken out of the analysis. Valproate was also indicated to be effective in controlling excitement and aggression. Acceptability and overall tolerability of the combined treatment was similar between treatment groups and did not cause more weight gain, however, adding valproate did cause greater sedation and dizziness. No trial reported effect on quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence is limited and firm conclusions cannot be made. For the main outcomes of interest, the review authors judged the quality of evidence to be low or very low quality, due to methodological issues in the reviewed studies. Most of them were small, short‐term and did not blind the participants or personnel. Large, double‐blind and long‐term randomised trials should be undertaken to properly determine the clinical effects of adding valproate to antipsychotic treatment for people with schizophrenia. 
This summary was written by Ben Gray, Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation. mcpin.org/ 
