Plasma exchange for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of plasma exchange for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP)? 
Background 
CIDP is an uncommon paralysing disease caused by inflammation of the peripheral nerves. Plasma exchange, also called plasmapheresis, removes blood from one vein, passes it through a machine, and then returns it into another vein. The machine replaces the plasma, which is the fluid part of the blood, with a substitute and preserves the red blood cells. The procedure removes potentially harmful substances, including antibodies. It takes several hours and is usually repeated about five times over two weeks. We wanted to discover whether plasma exchange is helpful in CIDP. 
Study characteristics 
We found two randomised controlled trials. Both studies compared plasma exchange with sham exchange (in which blood was removed and returned but not exchanged). One trial aimed to compare four weeks' plasma exchange with sham exchange. The 18 participants received both treatments, being randomised to either treatment in the first period of the trial, crossing over to the other treatment for the second period. The other trial compared three‐weeks' plasma exchange in 15 participants with sham exchange in 14 participants. We considered both trials at low risk of bias, which means largely free of flaws that could have influenced the results. 
Study funding sources 
A charitable grant supported the cross‐over trial. The other did not report any support.
Key results 
The cross‐over trial showed on average two points more improvement on an 11‐point disability scale with plasma exchange than sham exchange. This was unlikely to have occurred by chance. The parallel‐group trial did not report this outcome. When we combined the results of both trials, plasma exchange produced significantly more improvement in severity of disease signs measured by neurologists than sham exchange. The results reported were short term. In practice, people with CIDP receive repeated courses or combinations of plasma exchange with additional agents. Another Cochrane review includes a trial showing similar improvement after plasma exchange to that after intravenous infusion of immunoglobulin (the antibody portion of blood). According to non‐randomised evidence, plasma exchange causes adverse events in 3% to 17% of procedures. These are sometimes serious. 
