Smoking cessation interventions for people with lung cancer
Background 
Lung cancer is the most common cause of death from cancer worldwide. Tobacco smoking constitutes the most important risk factor for lung cancer. Most people with lung cancer are still active smokers at diagnosis or frequently relapse (restart) after smoking cessation. Quitting smoking is the most effective way for smokers to reduce the risk of premature death and disability. Smoking cessation interventions can be divided into psychosocial interventions (methods that do not use medicines, such as advice and counselling) and pharmacological (medicines, such as nicotine patched) interventions. Behavioural (methods that change a person's behaviour) and pharmacological treatments are believed to have complementary methods of working, and to improve the chances of maintaining long‐term abstinence independently. Quitting smoking after a diagnosis of lung cancer might be associated with decreased mortality (death), postoperative complications, recurrence and incidence of second primary lung cancer, and a greater treatment effectiveness and quality of life. Tobacco smoking cessation interventions play an important role in the management of people with cancer. Current and former smokers, especially people with lung cancer, should be encouraged to quit smoking. However, the effects of any type of smoking cessation programme for people with lung cancer are unclear. 
Review question 
We aimed to determine the effectiveness of any type of smoking cessation programme for people with lung cancer. 
Key results 
We searched medical databases to 22 December 2018 and other websites to 30 December 2018. We found no randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) for inclusion. We found four ongoing trials for inclusion when data become available. As of today, we are unable to conclude whether smoking cessation interventions are effective for people with lung cancer and whether one method is more effective than any other. People with lung cancer should be encouraged to quit smoking and offered help with smoking cessation, but we cannot recommend any type of smoking cessation intervention for people with lung cancer. High‐quality randomised controlled trials are needed to answer this question. 
Quality of evidence 
No trials met our inclusion criteria, so there was no good‐quality evidence.
