Exercise for improving outcomes for women with pre‐existing diabetes and their babies
What is the issue? 
Diabetes mellitus can be caused by autoimmune destruction of the cells producing insulin, so that levels are reduced (type 1 diabetes), or the body tissues becoming resistant to insulin (type 2 diabetes). The end result is increased blood glucose levels. Insulin is used to regulate glucose levels for pregnant women with type 1 diabetes. For women with type 2 diabetes, lifestyle changes, including diet and exercise, are an important part of treatment. An oral anti‐diabetic drug (medication that aims to reduce blood sugar levels) or insulin may be added to lower blood glucose levels. We set out to evaluate the effects of exercise interventions, for pregnant women with pre‐existing type 1 or 2 diabetes, on birth outcomes for the mother and her baby. An earlier review on the effects of exercise on diabetes during pregnancy has been split into two reviews ‐ one for women with gestational diabetes, and this review, on women with pre‐existing diabetes. 
Why is this important? 
Women with diabetes, who become pregnant, are at increased risk of pregnancy loss, or having a baby that is large‐for‐gestational age (baby is larger than would be expected for the number of weeks of pregnancy), is born preterm, who dies around the time of birth, or is born with birth defects. The newborn baby may also have blood sugar levels that are lower than normal, low calcium levels, and excess bilirubin in the blood. Long‐term follow‐up of the infants of diabetic mothers suggests that they are at increased risk of obesity and type 2 diabetes when older. 
The number of women who already have diabetes when they become pregnant is increasing, and identifying ways to improve health outcomes for women with diabetes and their babies is a priority. We already know that exercise may be of benefit for non‐pregnant women with type 2 diabetes, as it improves their blood glucose levels and reduces triglyceride fats in the blood. We are unclear if exercise benefits, and is safe for, pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes and their babies. Physical activity could help to increase fitness and prevent stress urinary incontinence, lower back pain, or depression, and control weight gain during pregnancy. 
