Mobile clinics for women's and children's health
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess the effects of mobile clinics on women’s and children’s health. Cochrane researchers searched for and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
The review only included two studies. One included study showed that mobile clinics may increase the number of women who use mammography services, although the cost of mammography screening may be higher. The other study showed that mobile clinics may make little or no difference to children’s asthma symptoms, their use of medication and urgent care, or their caregivers’ quality of life. More studies are needed, including studies that measure the effect of mobile clinics on cost and on people’s access to healthcare, their satisfaction, health, and well‐being. 
What was studied in the review? 
In many settings, people have poor access to healthcare services because they live in remote or hard‐to‐reach areas. Women and children may find it very difficult to access health services because of financial or social circumstances. 
One way to increase people’s access to healthcare services is by providing mobile clinics. A mobile clinic is a vehicle with a driver and clinical equipment, and is staffed by a healthcare provider, such as a doctor or nurse, that visits areas regularly to provide health services. 
Mobile clinics are used in many countries and are often used to offer health services to women and children, such as antenatal care, childhood immunisation, family planning services, and breast cancer screening. 
By taking health services to the community through mobile clinics, governments hope to increase the use of these services and improve people’s health. This Cochrane review aimed to explore the effect of mobile clinics on people’s access to and use of health care and on their satisfaction, health, and well‐being; as well as their cost and cost effectiveness, compared to permanent clinics. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors included two studies, which were from the USA.
In the first study, women were either offered health education and mammography screening in mobile clinics or health education only including reminders to attend a permanent clinic that offered mammography screening. The study showed that: 
· women offered mammography in mobile clinics may be more likely to undergo mammography (low certainty evidence); 
· the cost of screening per woman may be higher for mobile clinics than for permanent clinics (low certainty evidence). 
This study did not assess the effect of the mobile clinics on women’s health and well‐being, their access to services or their satisfaction with these services. 
