Oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid for the treatment of active ulcerative colitis
What is ulcerative colitis? 
Ulcerative colitis (UC) is a condition that causes inflammation of your large intestine (colon). Some of the symptoms associated with UC include diarrhea, abdominal pain, rectal pain, rectal bleeding, weight loss, fatigue and fever. 
What is 5‐aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA)? 
Sulfasalazine (SASP) has been used for treating UC for decades. SASP is made up of 5‐aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA) linked to a sulfur molecule. Up to a third of people treated with SASP have reported side effects, which are thought to be related to the sulfur part of the molecule. Common side effects associated with SASP include nausea, indigestion, headache, vomiting and abdominal pain. 5‐ASA drugs were developed to avoid the side effects associated with SASP. 5‐ASA is commonly taken by mouth. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers examined whether oral 5‐ASA helps to cause remission in people with UC. The researchers investigated whether oral 5‐ASA was better than placebo (a fake medication) or a different 5‐ASA formulation. 
Key results 
This review includes 54 randomized trials with a total of 9612 people taking part. The review includes studies published up to June 2019. Oral 5‐ASA was found to be more effective than placebo (fake drug). Although oral 5‐ASA drugs are effective for treating active UC, they are no more effective than SASP therapy. People taking 5‐ASA are less likely to experience side effects than those taking SASP. Side effects associated with 5‐ASA are generally mild in nature, and common side effects include digestive tract symptoms (e.g. flatulence, abdominal pain, nausea, and diarrhea), headache and worsening UC. 5‐ASA compounds are more expensive than SASP, so SASP may be the preferred option where cost is an important factor. 5‐ASA given once daily appears to be as effective as 5‐ASA given in the usual way (two or three times daily). There do not appear to be any differences in effectiveness or safety among the various 5‐ASA formulations. 
Conclusions 
High‐certainty evidence suggests that 5‐ASA is superior to placebo and that 5‐ASA once‐daily dose has the same effectiveness and safety as the conventional 5‐ASA dose. Moderate‐certainty evidence also suggests that 5‐ASA is not superior to SASP. Sticking to the medication does not appear to improve with once‐daily dosing compared to conventional dosing. Lastly, there may be little or no difference in effectiveness or safety among the various 5‐ASA formulations. 
