Antenatal breastfeeding education for increasing breastfeeding duration
What is the issue? 
Breastfeeding (BF) can improve the child's health, the mother's health and mother‐infant bonding. BF infants have lower rates of stomach and breathing problems, fewer ear infections and better speech, vision and overall development of physical and mental skills. The World Health Organization recommends that infants should be exclusively breastfed from birth to six months and then breastfed alongside age‐appropriate, complementary feeding for two years and beyond. Many women are unable to follow these recommendations, and we want to know how to help women to breastfeed. 
Why is this important? 
Antenatal BF education is teaching women about BF during pregnancy, before the baby arrives. One reason women are unable to breastfeed has to do with lack of education and knowledge about how to breastfeed. We believe that improving pregnant women's knowledge of BF may help them to breastfeed longer, but we are unsure what types of education are most helpful to women. 
What evidence did we find? 
We included 24 studies with 10,056 women in the review, and 20 studies involving 9789 women contributed data to the analyses. Most studies took place in high‐income countries including the USA, Canada, UK and Australia. Peer counselling, lactation consultation and formal BF education during pregnancy do not appear to improve uptake of BF or duration. However, some larger trials in different settings (one in Nigeria and one in Singapore) had some evidence that education may help. 
What does this mean? 
We are still unsure if antenatal BF education is able to help women; at present, there is no good evidence from randomised controlled trials to suggest these efforts to educate pregnant women translate into more and longer BF. Women who receive standard care before birth tend to choose BF at about the same rate as women who have extra BF education. We are confident in the results of studies measuring women's uptake of BF at birth and BF at six months; education does not appear to impact these decisions. We have some doubts about the impact of education on exclusive BF at three and six months; education does not seem to help women, but future studies may change our understanding. Future studies are likely to change our understanding of the impact of BF education during pregnancy on BF at three months. Most of the studies in this review took place in higher income countries, so we are not confident that our conclusions are relevant in other settings. 
