Systemic (whole body) safety of bevacizumab versus ranibizumab for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration 
Background  Neovascular age‐related macular degeneration (AMD) is a progressive and chronic disease of the eye, and a leading cause of severe blindness in elderly populations. The disease is characterised by the abnormal growth of arteries and veins (neovascularisation) in the macula, a region of the retina (back portion of eye) responsible for central vision. Without treatment, the leakage of these blood vessels causes swelling and damage to the macula, resulting in a fibrous scar that impairs eyesight. Approximately one out of 10 people with neovascular AMD suffer legal blindness, accounting for 90% of all cases of severe vision loss due to AMD. 
Therapies against neovascular AMD target new blood vessels. Bevacizumab (commercial name Avastin®) and ranibizumab (Lucentis®) are biological drugs that bind to and block the function of vascular endothelial growth factor (VEGF), a protein released by cells in the body that stimulates the growth and leakage of blood vessels. The two drugs, accordingly, inhibit the process of neovascularisation. Ranibizumab is approved to treat neovascular AMD by injection into the eye (intravitreal injection), while bevacizumab is approved as a cancer therapy by injection into the vein through the skin. The two drugs have similar chemical structures and the same mechanism of action. Although their benefits are equivalent, it has been hypothesised that the two drugs have different systemic safety profiles, such that one drug might cause more adverse events (harms) at the level of whole body compared to the other. 
Review question  We evaluated whether the two drugs differed in terms of deaths or serious systemic adverse events (SSAEs) in people with neovascular AMD. The latter refers to medically related events that result in death, are life‐threatening, require hospital admission or prolong hospital stay, or cause persistent or significant disability. 
Study characteristics  We included nine randomised controlled trials (RCTs), none supported by industry, with 3665 participants directly comparing bevacizumab with ranibizumab. Six RCTs were completed and published, two RCTs were completed, but unpublished, and one was still in progress. We were able to include safety information from all trials, accessing both published and unpublished data. 
Drugs were administered for up to two years according to continuous or discontinuous treatment. In the first, drugs were regularly administered, irrespective of the remission or progression of the disease; the latter involved 'as needed' (pro re nata, PRN) or 'treat‐and‐extend' regimens in which the drug was injected less frequently as long as there was no recurrence of neovascular manifestations. Follow‐up for adverse events occurred at regular intervals up to one or two years, irrespective of continuous or discontinuous treatment. 
All studies used the approved dosage of ranibizumab (0.5 mg) according to the 'Summary of Product Characteristics', and the dosage of bevacizumab most recommended by ophthalmologists for intravitreal injection (1.25 mg). 
Three studies excluded patients at high cardiovascular risk. However, four RCTs considered patients at different cardiovascular risks, representing a wide spectrum of risks and routine practice in hospital settings. 
Key results  Our review found the systemic safety of bevacizumab for neovascular AMD to be similar to that of ranibizumab, except for gastrointestinal disorders, which was a part of a secondary analysis. 
If 1000 people were treated with ranibizumab for one or two years, 34 would die. If treated instead with bevacizumab, between 27 and 53 of them would die. If 1000 people were treated with ranibizumab, 222 would experience one or more SSAEs. If 1000 people were treated instead with bevacizumab, between 200 and 291 would experience such an event. Deaths are likely to be unrelated to the administration of drugs. 
Quality of the evidence  We could not fully assess the quality of three unpublished studies. We rated the overall quality of the evidence as low to moderate because we could not be certain that one drug was better than the other one on many of our outcomes. Another limitation of the studies was the participants who were recruited into them, and the fact that studies may have missed measuring the outcomes of interest in a few individuals that might have experienced a SSAE. Missing information was equally common in participants treated with bevacizumab and those treated with ranibizumab. 
