When healthcare consumers (patients, carers and family members) and healthcare providers work together as partners to plan, deliver and evaluate health services, what effects does this have? 
What are person‐centred health services? 
Traditionally, health services have been developed by healthcare providers and focus on specific diseases or medical specialties. Involving consumers as partners in planning, delivering and evaluating health services may lead to services that are better able to meet the needs of and provide care for individuals.  
Why we did this Cochrane review 
Governments worldwide recommend that healthcare providers work with consumers to promote person‐centred health services. However, the effects of healthcare providers and consumers working together are unclear. 
We reviewed the evidence from research studies to find out about the effects of healthcare providers and consumers working together to plan, deliver and evaluate health services. 
Specifically, we wanted to know if consumers and healthcare providers working together in partnership – in the form of regular meetings in which consumers and providers were invited to contribute as equals to decisions about health services – had an impact on: 
‐ changes to health services;
‐ the extent to which changes to health services reflected service users’ priorities;
‐ users’ ratings of health services;
‐ health service use; and
‐ time and money needed to make or act on decisions about health services.
We also wanted to find out if there were any unwanted (adverse) effects.    
What did we do? 
First, we searched the medical literature for studies that compared:
‐ consumers and healthcare providers working in partnership against usual practice or other strategies with no partnership; or 
‐ different ways of working in partnership (for example, with fewer or more consumers, or with online or face‐to‐face meetings). 
We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What did we find? 
We found five studies that involved a total of 16,257 health service users and more than 469 health service providers. Three studies took place in high income‐countries and one each in middle‐ and low‐income countries. 
The studies compared:
‐ working in partnership against usual practice without partnership working (2 studies); and 
‐ working in partnership as part of a wider strategy to promote person‐centred health services, against the same wider strategy without partnership working (3 studies).   
No studies evaluated one form of working in partnership compared to another.
What are the main results of our review? 
The studies provided insufficient evidence to determine if working in partnership had any effects compared to usual practice or wider strategies with no working in partnership. 
No studies investigated:
‐ impacts on the extent to which changes to health services reflected service users’ priorities, or 
‐ the resources needed to make or act on decisions about health services.
Few studies investigated:
‐ impacts on changes to health services;
‐ users’ ratings of health services;
‐ health service use; and
‐ adverse events.
The few studies that did investigate these outcomes either did not report usable information or produced findings in which we have very little confidence. These studies were small, used methods likely to introduce errors in their results and focused on specific settings or populations. Their results are unlikely to reflect the results of all the studies that have been conducted in this area, some of which have not made their results public yet. 
