What is the diagnostic accuracy of the imaging test reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) for the detection of melanoma in adults? 
What was the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) was on its own and used in addition to dermoscopy compared to dermoscopy alone for diagnosing melanoma. Review authors in Cochrane included 18 publications to answer this question. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of melanoma important? 
Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms of skin cancer. Not recognising a melanoma when it is present (called a false negative test result) delays surgery to remove it, risking cancer spreading to other parts in the body and possibly death. Diagnosing a skin lesion as a melanoma when it is not present (called a false positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery, further investigations, and patient anxiety. 
What did the review study? 
Microscopic techniques are used by skin cancer specialists to allow a more detailed, magnified examination of suspicious skin lesions than can be achieved using the naked eye alone. Currently, dermoscopy (a handheld device using natural light) can be used as part of the clinical examination of suspicious skin lesions. RCM is a new microscopic technique (a handheld device or static unit using infrared light) that can visualise deeper layers of the skin compared to dermoscopy. Both techniques are painless procedures, but RCM is more expensive, time consuming, and requires additional training. Dermoscopy can be used by general practitioners whereas RCM is likely to only be used by secondary care specialists in people who have been referred with a lesion suspicious for skin cancer. We sought to find out whether RCM should be used instead of, or in addition to, dermoscopy, to diagnose melanoma in any suspicious skin lesion or only in particularly difficult to diagnose skin lesions. 
What were the main results of the review? 
The review included 18 publications reporting data for 19 groups of participants with lesions suspected of melanoma. The main results were based on 16 of the 19 datasets (sets of information and results). 
The review included nine datasets with 1452 lesions in people with any suspicious skin lesion, three of which compared RCM to dermoscopy. The results suggested that in 1000 lesions, of which 300 (30%) actually are melanoma: 
‐ an estimated 396 would have an RCM result indicating melanoma was present, and of these, 126 (32%) would not be melanoma (false positive results); ‐ in the same group of 1000 lesions, dermoscopy would produce 406 false positive results, meaning RCM would avoid unnecessary surgery in 280 lesions compared to dermoscopy; ‐ of the 604 lesions with an RCM result indicating that melanoma was not present (and 324 lesions with a dermoscopy result indicating that melanoma was not present), 30 would actually be melanoma (false negative results). This equated to a false negative rate of 5% for RCM and 9% for dermoscopy. 
