Glucose‐lowering agents for treating pre‐existing and new‐onset diabetes in kidney transplant recipients 
What is the issue? 
Kidney transplantation is often complicated by worsening or new‐onset diabetes. The safety and effectiveness of drugs used to lower glucose in this setting is largely unknown. 
What did we do? 
We evaluated the effectiveness and safety of glucose‐lowering drugs in people with diabetes who have received a kidney transplant by searching the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Specialised Register. We updated our original review by including all randomised controlled and cross‐over studies examining this question to 16 January 2020. 
What did we find? 
We included ten studies (including three additional studies) with a total of 603 randomised people receiving kidney transplants. Four studies compared more intensive to less intensive insulin therapy; two studies compared dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 (DPP‐4) inhibitors to placebo; one study compared DPP‐4 inhibitors to insulin glargine; one study compared sodium glucose co‐transporter 2 (SGLT2) inhibitors to placebo; and two studies compared glitazones plus insulin to insulin therapy alone. From these studies, the effects of more compared to less intensive insulin treatment on kidney transplant survival, blood glucose control, death, and treatment side‐effects including hypoglycaemia, are not well understood. Based on one study, DPP‐4 inhibitors may improve blood glucose control without affecting kidney function markers. The rate of side‐effects of DPP‐4 inhibitors compared to placebo or insulin is also not well understood. Based on one study, SGLT2 inhibitors probably do not affect kidney transplant survival, but may improve long‐term blood glucose control without affecting long‐term kidney function. SGLT2 inhibitors probably do not cause low sugar levels and have little or no effect on people stopping the medication. However, in the study, people who stop SGLT2 inhibitors had urinary tract infections. Glitazones and insulin may not have an effect on blood glucose control or side‐effects compared to insulin alone. The effects of using DPP‐4 inhibitors compared to placebo or insulin, or glitazones and insulin compared to insulin alone, on survival of the kidney transplant and death is also unclear. 
