For people with chronic asthma, is a single combination inhaler for both regular and "as‐needed" treatment better than two separate inhalers? 
Background for the review  Asthma is a chronic inflammation of the airways that causes flare‐ups of wheezing, chest tightness and coughing. Treatment with inhaled steroids and other inhaled drugs that relax the airways (bronchodilators) often gives good control of symptoms, prevents serious flare‐ups and improves quality of life. Several steroids and bronchodilators (long‐ and short‐acting) as well as combinations of these treatments are available in a single inhaler. 
This review focusses on a particular inhaled therapy called 'single‐inhaler therapy' (SiT), sometimes called SMART therapy. The idea is that the SiT is taken once or twice a day and also anytime it is needed for relief of symptoms. In theory, this improves compliance, controls asthma symptoms and prevents exacerbations while allowing lower overall exposure to inhaled steroids. The drugs contained in SiT are budesonide and formoterol. 
This review aimed to find out whether SiT is as safe and effective as a combination inhaler (containing a steroid and a long‐acting beta‐agonist (LABA)) plus another inhaler for relief of symptoms. The review looked at the effects of these treatments for adults and children with chronic asthma. 
What did we find?  Four studies including 9130 adults and adolescents were included. None of the studies included children younger than age 12. The studies lasted for six months to a year, and all were funded by one drug company. Studies included more women than men, with average age of about 40. Three studies recruited people with quite similar symptoms, but one study included people with less severe asthma. The studies were well conducted, although two did not hide which treatments were being taken (known as blinding), which might have affected the results. The amount of inhaled steroids, including puffs taken for relief from symptoms, was consistently lower for SiT than for the comparison groups using two types of inhalers. Overall, we believe that the quality of the evidence was high to moderate. 
