Continuous cardiotocography (CTG) as a form of electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) for fetal assessment during labour 
What is the issue? 
Is continuous cardiotocography (CTG) to electronically monitor babies' heartbeats and wellbeing during labour better at identifying problems than listening intermittently? 
Why is this important? 
Monitoring babies' heartbeats is used to check wellbeing during labour. Listening and recording the baby's heartbeat aims to identify babies who are becoming short of oxygen and may benefit from an early delivery by caesarean section or instrumental vaginal birth. 
A baby's heartbeat can be monitored intermittently using a special trumpet‐shaped device, or hand‐held Doppler device. The heartbeat can also be checked continuously using a CTG machine. Continuous CTG produces a paper recording of the baby's heart rate and the mother's labour contractions. Although continuous CTG provides a written record, mothers cannot move freely during labour, change positions easily, or use a birthing pool to help with comfort and control during labour. It also means that some resources tend to be focused on the need to constantly interpret the CTG and not on the needs of a woman in labour. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 30 November 2016, but found no new studies for this update. We included 12 trials that compared continuous CTG monitoring with intermittent listening, and one trial compared continuous CTG with intermittent CTG. Together, the trials involved over 37,000 women. No trial compared continuous CTG with no monitoring. Most studies were undertaken before 1994, and apart from two, were not high quality. The review was dominated by one large, well‐conducted trial from 1985 which involved almost 13,000 women who received one‐to‐one care throughout labour. The mothers' membranes were ruptured artificially as early as possible and about a quarter received oxytocin to stimulate contractions. 
Overall, there was no difference in numbers of babies who died during or shortly after labour (about one in 300) (low quality evidence). Fits in babies were rare (about one in 500 births) (moderate quality evidence), but occurred less often when continuous CTG was used to monitor the baby's heart rate. There was no difference in the rate of cerebral palsy (low quality evidence); however, other possible long‐term effects have not been fully assessed and need further study. Continuous monitoring was associated with significantly more deliveries by caesarean section (low quality evidence) and instrumental vaginal births (low quality evidence). Although both procedures carry risks for mothers, these were not assessed in the included studies. 
