Interventions to reduce sedentary behaviour after stroke
Review questionWe reviewed the evidence that examines the effects of treatments to reduce the amount of sedentary behaviour in people after stroke. 
Background'Sedentary behaviour' refers to sitting or lying down (e.g. sitting watching the television) during the daytime rather than being active and 'up and about'. After any kind of stroke, it is very common for people to spend a lot of time in sedentary behaviour. This is common both among stroke patients who are in hospital as well as those who have been discharged home. Sedentary behaviours are known to be damaging to health; they increase the risk of heart attacks and strokes, and increase the chance of dying. Spending less time sitting after stroke could reduce these risks for people during life after stroke. If sedentary time is reduced then, by definition, physical activity (such as walking) must increase. In combination, this could not only reduce health risks but also improve the way people with stroke move and the way they feel. 
Study characteristicsIn December 2019, after comprehensively searching the scientific literature, we identified 10 randomised controlled trials for inclusion in the review. The studies involved a total of 753 participants at all stages of care, including being in hospital or back to living at home. Most of the people who took part were able to walk and stand on their own. The interventions ranged in duration from six weeks up to 18 months and all involved some element of increased physical activity. Studies included exercise alone (one study) or in combination with education and coaching (one study); physical activity alone (one study) or in combination with a mobile phone 'app' (one study), multi‐component lifestyle interventions including physical activity (four studies), and additional inpatient physiotherapy (one study). One study used an intervention specifically aimed at breaking up long periods of continuous sitting. 
Because of problems in the ways they were conducted, and in the ways they were reported by the research teams, all studies were at high or unclear risk of bias. 
Key resultsCurrently, the evidence shows that interventions to reduce sedentary behaviour do not increase or reduce death, cardiovascular events, falls or other adverse events, or amount of time spent sitting. However, even though the evidence is incomplete, there may still be value in people after stroke trying to sit less, providing it is safe to do so. 
Certainty of the evidenceWe assessed the 'certainty' of the evidence with the GRADE methodology. Our certainty about the effects of these interventions on death, cardiovascular events, and falls is low, and for their effects on other adverse events it is moderate. The certainty of the effects on sedentary behaviour itself is very low. Interest in sedentary behaviour after stroke is relatively recent; the main problem with the evidence is that very few studies have examined this to date. The available evidence tends to be restricted to patients after stroke who are more mobile. Many studies were not conducted for long enough periods to show longer‐term changes in sitting behaviour, or changes in the risk of illness or death. 
