Clobazam as an add‐on treatment in the management of drug‐resistant epilepsy
Background Epilepsy is a disorder of repeated seizures. Whilst many people will achieve freedom from seizures on one antiepileptic medication, some may require multiple medications to try to reduce the number of seizures that they have. These people are said to have drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Aim of the review Clobazam is an antiepileptic medication. Here, we examine the evidence from medical studies to determine how effective clobazam is at reducing the number of seizures that people have when used as an add‐on treatment by people with drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Results We found four studies which had assessed clobazam as an add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant epilepsy. They included a total of 197 people. Two studies reported that more than half of the people given clobazam reached a 50% of greater reduction in the number of their seizures. Three of the studies reported how many people were seizure‐free whilst taking clobazam. In total, approximately 15% of people were seizure‐free when taking clobazam, compared to 0% when they were given placebo (a fake, inactive drug which should have no effect of epilepsy). All four studies reported how many people withdrew from treatment during the studies. Slightly more people withdrew from the studies when receiving clobazam (17 out of 197 people) than when receiving placebo (12 out of 197 people), but the rate of people withdrawing was still low overall. Clobazam was associated with side effects, in particular drowsiness. 
All four studies were of short duration. They used different methods, e.g. different lengths of treatment, and were of poor quality. The results suggest that clobazam reduces seizure frequency for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy (epilepsy that originates from one area of the brain), but there were not enough data to determine whether clobazam is as effective for generalised epilepsy (epilepsy involving the whole brain). The very low quality of the evidence provided by the four included studies means that we are very uncertain about whether the findings are accurate and, therefore, they must be taken and applied with caution. 
The evidence is current to October 2018.
