Approaches to help people with COPD who have one or more long‐term conditions
What is COPD and comorbidity? 
COPD is a common condition caused mainly by smoking and can lead to long‐term breathing problems. Symptoms include shortness of breath, and cough with sputum production due to airways and lung damage. People with COPD may have one or more other long‐term conditions (comorbidities) such as heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, asthma and lung cancer which can lead to poor health. People living with two or more comorbidities can also be known as living with multimorbidity. 
Why did we do this review?  
Because many people with COPD live with multimorbidity, naturally people in clinical trials will have multimorbidities. However, the results of those trials are usually not reported broken down by multimorbidity. People with comorbidities may need to adapt interventions to take account of their comorbidity — for example taking exercise in water instead of on land so that their bodies are better supported. Historically, Cochrane Airways Reviews have not taken into account people's comorbidities, and this review is a first step to addressing this. We decided to complete a review that centres on people with COPD and comorbidities following a meeting with our COPD patient group, who highlighted concerns over comorbidities. After some deliberation, we decided to include the following two sorts of trials. 
1. Any single intervention for COPD delivered to people with COPD adapted to or targeting their comorbidity compared to routine care or any other intervention. 
2. Any intervention aimed at changing the management of people with COPD and comorbidities, which could be simple (e.g. scheduling COPD and heart clinics on the same day) or more complex (e.g. developing a new care package for management of people with COPD across a local health service), compared to routine care. 
We wanted to know which treatments improve quality of life and reduce exacerbations for people living with COPD and one or more comorbidities. 
