Fetal measurements for guiding the medical management of women with diabetes in pregnancy to improve outcomes for mother and baby 
What is the issue? 
Diabetes during pregnancy affects between one and three in ten pregnant women (10% to 30%), and is associated with an increased risk of adverse outcomes. The baby may grow to a large size, leading to injury of the baby during birth, or the need for caesarean delivery. It is known that carefully controlling the mother's blood glucose levels during pregnancy reduces the risk of these and other adverse outcomes. All women with diabetes during pregnancy have their glucose levels closely monitored, and are treated using dietary changes, exercise or medications such as insulin or oral medication, even when their babies are not showing signs of being affected. 
The most common sign of being affected by high glucose and insulin levels is a baby who is larger than expected, and so at risk of macrosomia (weighing more than 4000 g at birth). 
Why is this important? 
Only 14% to 22% of women with diabetes during pregnancy have macrosomic babies (babies weighing more than 4000 g at birth). At present, all women with diabetes during pregnancy, even those whose babies are not showing signs of being larger, are closely monitored. This costs time and money for both the women and the health services. If we are able to prove that targeting intensive monitoring and treatment to those women whose unborn babies are affected by overgrowth does not increase the risk of adverse outcomes, we may be able to save time, resources and anxiety. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on the 29th of January 2019 and identified three small randomised controlled trials (involving a total of 524 women) for inclusion in our review. The overall trial quality was low to moderate. The trials did not report the majority of outcomes of interest in this review, including outcomes relating to cost or use of resources. 
Compared with monitoring the mothers' blood glucose levels alone, the addition of ultrasound may make little or no difference to the risk of having a caesarean birth (2 trials, 428 women, low‐certainty evidence). Very low‐certainty evidence means that we are unclear about the results relating to the risks of the mother having blood pressure disorders during pregnancy (2 trials, 325 women). The included trials did not report on the important maternal outcomes of low blood glucose, or development of type 2 diabetes. 
Using ultrasound in addition to monitoring the mother's blood glucose levels may make little or no difference to the risk of the newborn baby having low blood glucose levels (3 trials, 524 women, low‐certainty evidence). Very low‐certainty evidence means that we are unclear about results relating to the risks of: having a baby that is large for gestational age (3 trials, 524 women); the baby's shoulders becoming entrapped in the birth canal (1 trial, 96 women); death or illness in the newborn baby (1 trial, 96 women); or the baby dying during pregnancy or birth (1 trial, 96 women). 
