Giving intravenous nutrients to adults during surgery to prevent hypothermia
Review question 
We wanted to find out about the effects that intravenous nutrients (amino acids or sugars given into the bloodstream through a tube or a catheter in a vein) have on adults having surgery. Giving intravenous nutrients increases a person's metabolism, and this may increase the body heat produced. We wanted to know if giving intravenous nutrients during a surgical procedure could keep people warm, and if intravenous nutrients can keep them from having problems caused by being cold. 
Background 
People can get cold during surgery, particularly because of the drugs that are used to stop them from feeling pain and that keep them unconscious (anaesthetics). These drugs change how blood flows around the body, which can lead to heart problems and can cause wounds to heal more slowly. It may also cause blood to clot more slowly, and can make some drugs have uncertain effects. People can shiver when they wake from anaesthesia and often comment that this is a very uncomfortable experience. Keeping people warm may stop them from shivering. There are many ways of trying to keep people warm during surgery, including giving them intravenous nutrients. 
Study characteristics 
We looked for evidence up to November 2015. We included 14 randomized studies (involving 565 participants). Thirteen studies compared people who received normal care with additional intravenous amino acids against people who received normal care but no amino acids (the control group). One study compared people who received fructose with those in a control group. Studies involved adults undergoing planned or emergency surgery. We did not include studies in which participants were deliberately kept cold during surgery, were receiving skin grafts or were under local anaesthetic. 
Key results 
We can be certain that at the end of surgery, people receiving intravenous nutrients are up to a half‐degree warmer than people receiving control (based on evidence from six studies involving 249 participants). However, there was more uncertainty about the effects of intravenous nutrients at other time points, with some studies suggesting that intravenous nutrients keep participants warmer and other studies reporting that participants were colder than those receiving the control. We are uncertain if keeping people up to half a degree warmer is important to those involved in caring for people who are having surgery. We are also uncertain if giving intravenous nutrients reduces the risk of people shivering (based on evidence from three studies involving 155 participants). 
