Paracetamol (acetaminophen) for prevention or treatment of pain in newborns
Review question: Is paracetamol effective and safe for the prevention or treatment of procedural or postoperative pain or pain associated with clinical conditions in newborn infants? 
Background: Newborn infants have the ability to experience pain. Newborns treated in neonatal intensive care units are exposed to numerous painful procedures. Healthy newborns are exposed to pain if the birth process consists of assisted vaginal birth by vacuum extraction or by forceps and during blood sampling for newborn screening tests. 
Study characteristics: We identified nine studies that reported comparisons in 728 infants of paracetamol versus placebo or other pain‐reducing interventions. The literature search was updated in May 2016. 
Key results: Paracetamol for heel lance did not reduce pain compared with placebo (water or cherry elixir) or compared with EMLA cream (eutectic mixture of lidocaine and prilocaine). Paracetamol use was associated with a stronger response to pain than was seen with glucose. Paracetamol did not reduce pain in infants exposed to vacuum extraction or forceps at birth, and their response to a subsequent heel lance at two to three days of life was increased compared with placebo. For eye examination, paracetamol was effective in reducing pain compared with water in one study, but the pain response was stronger among paracetamol‐treated infants than in infants given 24% sucrose. In infants treated with paracetamol and morphine compared with morphine alone, the total amount of morphine required during the first 48 hours following major surgery to the chest or the abdomen was less in the paracetamol group. Paracetamol did not significantly reduce pain during heel lance. Paracetamol following assisted birth may increase the response to later exposure to painful interventions. Paraetamol may reduce the total need for morphine following major surgery, and further research is needed into this aspect of paracetamol use. 
