Different devices for airway management in obese patients during general anaesthesia
Patients undergoing general anaesthesia need to have their airway protected as they lose their normal reflexes. This is most commonly achieved by placing a tube down through the mouth and larynx into the trachea (a tracheal tube (TT)) and using this to ventilate the lungs. Supraglottic airway devices (SADs) offer an alternative; they extend from the mouth into the throat but sit above the larynx. The number of obese patients requiring general anaesthesia is likely to increase because obesity is becoming more common and is a risk factor for many chronic health conditions, such as diabetes, cancers and cardiovascular disease. Securing the airway in obese patients may be difficult, and obese patients are at increased risk for complications during anaesthesia, such as difficulty passing an airway and aspiration of stomach contents into the lungs. SADs offer potential benefits, but concerns remain that they may increase the risk of these serious complications. 
We searched the databases to September 2012, to find controlled trials that had randomly assigned obese participants (with body mass index (BMI) greater than 30 kg/m2) undergoing general anaesthesia to TT or SAD for airway management. We wanted to investigate the effect of airway type on risk of failed placement; serious complications and death; oxygenation of the blood during and after surgery; coughing, sore throat or hoarseness during or after placement; and time taken and number of attempts needed to fit the airway. 
We found two randomized studies with a total of 232 obese participants, both of which studied one model of SAD－the ProSeal laryngeal mask airway (PLMA). No relevant outcomes for death or other serious complications occurred in these studies.We found that in 3% to 5% of obese participants, it was not possible to fit a PLMA, and a change of device to a TT was required. The proportion of successful first attempts at airway placement did not differ between PLMA and TT, although it took approximately six seconds longer to place an SAD than a TT. We found significant postoperative reduction of almost 75% in episodes of low oxygen saturation and an improvement in mean oxygen saturation of 2.5% during recovery in the PLMA group. Postoperative cough was less common among participants in the PLMA group. Our findings are consistent with both increased and decreased risks of both sore throat and hoarseness in the PLMA group. 
