A new, non‐invasive diagnostic blood test — polymerase chain reaction — for people at risk of an invasive mould infection (aspergillosis) 
Review question We reviewed the evidence about the accuracy of polymerase chain reaction (PCR) tests for diagnosing invasive aspergillosis (IA) among people with defective immune systems from medical treatment such as chemotherapy or following organ or bone marrow transplant. 
Background IA is a fungal disease caused by the widespread mould Aspergillus, with Aspergillus fumigatus being the most common species. Most people breathe in Aspergillus spores every day without becoming ill. However people with weakened immune systems or lung diseases are at a higher risk of developing respiratory problems of the lungs and sinuses due to Aspergillus, ranging from allergic complications to IA, which is the most common life‐threatening, invasive fungal infection of people whose immune systems are compromised. Without antifungal treatment, most people with IA will die as a direct result of IA, so early diagnosis and prompt administration of appropriate antifungal treatment are both critical to the survival of these people. The ideal specimen for diagnosing IA would be lung tissue but obtaining this carries a significant risk to the patient so there is a clear need for new, non‐invasive methods such as PCR to demonstrate the fungus’s presence in blood by detecting its nucleic acids. 
Study characteristics We conducted our most recent search for studies in March 2018 and combined with an earlier search selected 29 clinical studies reporting the evaluation of PCR tests prospectively in cohorts of people at high risk of IA. 
Study funding sources None of the companies involved in the diagnosis of invasive fungal diseases funded any of the studies included in the review. 
Quality of the evidence Most studies were at low risk of bias and low concern regarding applicability. However, differences in the reference standard may have contributed to differences we found in the distribution of cases as being classified as IA or not. 
Key results Several PCR techniques were used in the studies. Pooling the data from the studies showed that sensitivity and specificity of PCR for the diagnosis of IA varied (from 59% to 79.2% and from 79% to 95.2%, respectively) depending on the interpretative criteria used to define a test as positive. When used as a diagnostic criterion for IA in a population of 100 people with a disease prevalence of 16.3% (overall mean prevalence), a single PCR positive test would have missed three people with the disease, and falsely classified 17 people as having the disease, who would be treated unnecessarily or referred for further tests. A requirement of two positive tests as a diagnostic criterion in a population with the same disease prevalence would miss nine people with the disease and falsely classify four people as having the disease. These numbers should be interpreted with caution because the reference standard is based on the degree of certainty of diagnosis and is rarely proven so cannot provide consistent assessment of cases as being IA or not. 
Overall, PCR shows moderate diagnostic accuracy when used as a screening test for IA in high‐risk patient groups. Importantly, when the rate of sensitivity is low, the sensitivity of the tests means that a negative result allows the diagnosis to be excluded with confidence except when the patient is receiving certain antifungal drugs. With the low prevalence of the disease, a high negative predictive value such that a negative test allows the diagnosis to be excluded. 
