Once daily long‐acting beta2‐agonists and long‐acting muscarinic antagonists in a combined inhaler versus placebo for COPD 
We wanted to know whether once‐daily treatment with a fixed‐dose combination of a long‐acting beta2 agonist (LABA) plus a long‐acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) delivered via a single inhaler is better than treatment with a dummy inhaler (placebo) for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Background to the review 
COPD is a disease of the lungs and is the fourth most common cause of death worldwide. People with COPD experience symptoms of cough, breathlessness and a build up of mucus, which become worse over time. Current treatments for COPD aim to manage these symptoms and improve the quality of life of people with the disease. 
A combination of a LABA plus a LAMA taken once‐daily in a single inhaler (LABA/LAMA) has been shown to be more effective than taking each separately in individual inhalers. Several different combinations of inhaled LABA and LAMA are available (e.g. indacaterol/glycopyrronium, olodaterol/tiotropium, formoterol/aclidinium, and vilanterol/umeclidinium) and are used for the treatment of COPD. By gathering information from clinical trials that compare once‐daily LABA/LAMA with placebo in a dummy inhaler we will provide information to help future research decide which combination is best for treating people with COPD. 
What did we find? 
Twenty‐two studies (including 8641 people with COPD) compared once‐daily LABA/LAMA in a single inhaler with a dummy inhaler. People were allowed to continue to use their inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) during the studies; approximately a third to a half of people were using their ICS at the beginning of each study. The evidence presented in this review is current up to December 2018. The majority of people who took part in the studies had mild‐to‐moderate COPD and the average age of people in each study ranged from 59 to 65 years. Six studies evaluated the once‐daily combination of indacaterol/glycopyrronium, seven studies evaluated tiotropium/olodaterol, eight studies evaluated umeclidinium/vilanterol and one study evaluated aclidinium/formoterol. 
