Intravenous immunoglobulin for multifocal motor neuropathy
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) and subcutaneous immunoglobulin (SCIg) in people with multifocal motor neuropathy (MMN). Immunoglobulin is a preparation of antibodies with no specific target purified from the blood and is usually given into a vein (intravenous immunoglobulin; IVIg); however, infusions under the skin (SCIg) might be an alternative. 
Background 
MMN is a rare condition that causes weakness of the limbs, which tends to worsen over time. The arms, especially the hands, are more often involved than the legs. The usual treatment for MMN is IVIg. 
Study characteristics 
We searched widely for studies on this topic and found six small trials involving a total of 90 people with MMN who received IVIg treatment. Three studies had limitations, and there was not enough information about the remaining studies to permit a full assessment. Five trials compared an infusion (slow injection) of IVIg with a dummy infusion. The remaining trial compared two different administration routes: IVIg infusion versus SCIg infusion. The effects were measured between 4 and 12 weeks after treatment. Two trials involved employees of an immunoglobulin manufacturer as authors. One of these studies, which was also sponsored by the manufacturer, underwent independent manuscript review by experts with full data access. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
IVIg may improve strength in people with MMN. IVIg may also improve disability, but we need further research to confirm or rule out an effect, as this evidence is less certain. The evidence for whether more people experience side effects on IVIg than with a dummy infusion is uncertain. There was only one serious side effect (pulmonary embolism) during IVIg treatment. Most people with MMN need ongoing immunoglobulin treatment, as disability and muscle strength probably deteriorate with immunoglobulin withdrawal. We need more evidence on whether SCIg might be an alternative to IVIg. 
The evidence is current to April 2021.
