Does the design of replacement lenses used in cataract surgery help to stop clouding of the new lens once inside the eye? 
Key messagesIn cataract surgery, replacement lenses that have a sharp edge design may be less likely to develop clouding on their surface than lenses with a round edge. People given new lenses with sharp edges may have clearer eyesight, and may be less likely to need laser surgery, than people given lenses with rounded edges. 
How are cataracts treated?The lens is a small, clear disc inside the eye that focuses light rays to make clear images of objects seen. A cataract starts when cloudy patches develop on the lens. As the cloudy patches get bigger over time, sight becomes misty and blurred. 
Surgery is the only way to improve your eyesight if you have cataracts. In cataract surgery, a tiny cut is made in your eye; the old, cloudy lens is removed and a new, plastic lens is put in its place. 
After cataract surgeryA common problem after cataract surgery is that the back of the new lens develops cloudy patches on the surface, causing blurred or misty sight again. The problem is treated by using a laser to create a small opening in the back of the lens, to allow light through. However, this procedure could cause further problems, such as raising pressure inside the eye, or could damage other parts of the eye. 
Why we did this Cochrane ReviewDifferent styles of plastic lenses have been designed to try to stop or reduce clouding once they are in the eye. Changes include making the edges of the lens round or sharp. We wanted to find out if differently shaped edges on the lens would make it less likely to cloud. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that tested different designs of plastic lenses used in cataract surgery. We wanted to know how differently shaped edges on the lens affected the need for laser eye treatment one year after cataract surgery. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to 17 November 2020. 
What we foundWe found 10 studies involving 1065 people with age‐related cataracts who had surgery to replace the lens in 1834 eyes. The studies took place in Austria, Germany, India, Japan, Sweden and the UK. The studies lasted for at least one year. Some studies followed participants for up to 12 years after their surgery. 
The studies compared replacement lenses with rounded edges against replacement lenses with sharp edges. 
A pharmaceutical company funded one study and partly funded another study.
What are the main results of our review?In all 10 studies, eyes given a sharp‐edged lens showed less clouding on the lens, compared with eyes given a round‐edged lens. 
‐ After two, three and five years, eyes given a sharp‐edged lens may be less likely to need laser surgery than those given a round‐edged lens (evidence from six studies involving 742 people). ‐ After one year and three years, vision may be clearer in eyes given sharp‐edged lenses compared with eyes given round‐edged lenses (evidence from two studies involving 260 people). ‐ At one year after surgery, it was not clear if the design of lens (sharp‐ or round‐edged) affected how many people needed to have laser surgery to treat cloudy patches on the new lens. This might be because not many people in either group needed laser surgery after one year. 
We are uncertain how the two designs of lens affected the numbers of any unwanted effects people experienced, because these were not consistently reported. We found no evidence of any important differences between the two lens types in the numbers of complications reported. 
