Hearing loss after treatment including platinum analogues for childhood cancer
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the association between childhood cancer treatment including platinum analogues and the occurrence of hearing loss. 
Background 
Platinum‐based therapy, such as cisplatin, carboplatin and oxaliplatin, is used to treat a variety of cancers in children. Unfortunately, one of the most important side effects is hearing loss or ototoxicity. There is a wide variation in the reported frequency of platinum‐induced ototoxicity and associated risk factors (a condition, lifestyle or environment that affects the probability of occurrence of hearing loss). More insight into frequency and risk factors is essential to improve treatment for children with cancer and to develop better ways of monitoring (called follow‐up) survivors already treated with platinum‐based therapy. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to September 2015.
We found 13 studies including 2837 participants with a hearing test after platinum‐based therapy for different types of childhood cancers. Participants were treated with cisplatin, carboplatin or both, in varying doses. All studies were very different with regard to definitions of hearing loss, used diagnostic tests, participant characteristics, (prior) anti‐cancer treatment, other ototoxic drugs and length of follow‐up. 
Key results 
The reported frequency of hearing loss varied between 0% and 90.1%; none of the studies provided data on tinnitus (that is, ringing in the ears). Three studies reported a frequency of 0%, but none of these studies provided a definition for hearing loss and there might be substantial or even complete overlap in included participants between these three studies. When only studies that did provide a definition for hearing loss were included, the frequency of hearing loss still varied between 1.7% and 90.1%. 
Only two studies included people who had not received platinum treatment (called control group). In one study, the frequency of hearing loss was 67.1% in people treated with platinum, while in the control group it was 7.4%. In the other study, the frequency of hearing loss was 20.1% in people treated with platinum and 0.44% in the control group. But due to methodological problems of these studies, it is unclear how reliable these results are. 
Only two studies evaluated possible risk factors. One study found a higher risk of hearing loss in people treated with cisplatin 400 mg/m2 plus carboplatin 1700 mg/m2 compared to treatment with cisplatin 400 mg/m2 or less, irrespective of the definition of hearing loss. They also found a higher risk of hearing loss in people treated with non‐anthracycline aminoglycosides antibiotics (that is, a certain type of antibiotics) as compared to people not treated with these antibiotics, for three out of four definitions of hearing loss. The other study reported that age at treatment (lower risk in older children) and single maximum cisplatin dose (higher risk with an increasing dose) were significant predictors for hearing loss, while gender was not. 
Based on the currently available evidence, we can only advise that children treated with platinum analogues are screened for ototoxicity in order to make it possible to diagnose hearing loss early and to take appropriate measures. However, we are unable to give recommendations for specific follow‐up methods including how often hearing is tested. Counselling regarding the prevention of noise pollution can be considered, like the use of noise‐limiting equipment, avoiding careers with excess noise and ototoxic medicines. Before definitive conclusions on how often hearing loss happens (called prevalence) and associated risk factors of platinum‐induced ototoxicity can be made, more high‐quality research is needed. 
Quality of the evidence 
All studies had problems relating to quality of the evidence.
