Computerised cognitive training for maintaining cognitive function in cognitively healthy people in late life 
Background 
The terms 'cognition' and 'cognitive function' describe all of the mental activities related to thinking, learning, remembering, and communicating. Normal changes in cognition occur with ageing. There are also diseases that affect cognition, principally dementia, which becomes increasingly common with increasing age from about 65 years onwards. It is known that being mentally active throughout life is associated with lower risk of dementia. Therefore, it has been suggested that encouraging mental activity might be an effective way of maintaining good cognitive function as people age. Cognitive training comprises a set of standardised tasks intended to 'exercise the brain' in various ways. Programmes of cognitive training are often delivered by computers or mobile technology, so that people can do this training on their own at home. Increasingly, these are available as commercial packages that are advertised to the general public. We wanted to know whether long‐term use of computerised cognitive training (CCT) is an effective way for people aged 65 and older to maintain good cognitive function as they age. 
What we did 
We searched the medical literature up to 15 March 2018 for trials that compared cognitive function of people aged 65 or older who had taken part in computerised cognitive training for a minimum of 12 weeks with cognitive function of a control group that had not done so. All participants should have been cognitively healthy at the start of the trials. For the comparison to be as fair as possible, it should have been decided randomly whether participants were in the cognitive training group or in the control group. We were primarily interested in overall measures of cognition. The choice of three months for the intervention was somewhat arbitrary, but we thought very short interventions were unlikely to have lasting effects, and we were interested in interventions that could be sustained over time. 
