Antidepressant medication for preventing postnatal depression
Review question 
We examined the evidence to see whether antidepressants can prevent women from experiencing depression in the postnatal period, when compared with any other treatment, sham treatment (placebo), or standard clinical care. The studies we identified included only women who had previously experienced postnatal depression, and had a higher risk of experiencing postnatal depression again. 
Background 
Postnatal depression is a common condition. Approximately 10 to 15 of every 100 women experience elevated symptoms of depression in the period after giving birth, and 5 in every 100 women will experience a depressive disorder. Symptoms of depression include low mood, loss of pleasure, and feelings of guilt or worthlessness. Postnatal depression has an impact on the mother, and may have a negative impact on the well‐being of the infant and wider family. 
Women with a history of depression — and particularly women who have previously experienced postnatal depression — have a higher risk of postnatal depression. Pregnant women who are not depressed, but are at high risk of developing postnatal depression, may want to consider taking measures to try to prevent depression developing in the postnatal period. 
We examined whether taking antidepressants during pregnancy or after giving birth can prevent women from developing postnatal depression. 
Study characteristics 
We identified two small, relevant trials. All the women in these trials had a history of postnatal depression, but were not depressed or using antidepressants at the beginning of the studies. Both studies compared antidepressant medicine with placebo. Women started taking the medicine or placebo on the first day after giving birth. 
In the larger study (56 women), the antidepressant given to women was nortriptyline, which is a tricyclic antidepressant. In the other study (25 women), the antidepressant used was sertraline which is a selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI); these types of antidepressants work in different ways. The women and the researchers assessing the outcomes in both studies did not know which women were taking antidepressants and which placebo (i.e. both studies were 'double‐blind'). Both studies were funded by the National Institute of Mental Health (NIMH), a US government organisation. 
Key results 
There was no evidence that nortriptyline prevented postnatal depression. During the 17‐week treatment period, 6 of the 26 women taking nortriptyline experienced postnatal depression compared with 6 of the 25 women taking placebo. One woman taking nortriptyline developed mania (a state of abnormally high arousal and energy level), and constipation was more common among women taking nortriptyline, but other unwanted, or harmful, effects did not differ between groups. 
In the sertraline study, 1 of the 14 women taking sertraline developed postnatal depression compared with 4 of the 8 women taking placebo (during the 17‐week treatment period). This study was very small, so we can't be sure whether the difference between sertraline and placebo is due to chance, or whether sertraline does prevent postnatal depression among women with a history of postnatal depression. One woman taking sertraline experienced a hypomanic episode (a state like mania but less severe); and dizziness and drowsiness were more common among women taking sertraline than women taking placebo. 
