How effective are military and frontline emergency service personnel pre‐deployment resilience building programmes? 
Military and frontline emergency services personnel are at risk of developing PTSD (post‐traumatic stress disorder) and other trauma‐related psychological difficulties if they witness potentially traumatising events. Such events can include witnessing injuries or death or being exposed to situations where the personnel themselves are at risk of injury or death. Theoretically, it may be possible to build the psychological resilience of these personnel before they are faced with these types of events, thus reducing the occurrence and severity of distress after traumatic events. This review identified and collated the evidence for these type of resilience‐building programmes. Only studies that used an experimental group versus control group design (randomised controlled trial (RCT)/cluster‐RCT) were selected for the review. Over 6774 records were screened, with 28 studies selected for inclusion in the review. The programmes included in this review were informed by different theories (‘theoretical orientation’) and delivered in different ways (e.g. on‐line/off‐line; group‐based/individual). There is not yet enough evidence to support the assertion that such programmes can build resilience to symptoms of psychological stress and prevent a diagnosis of PTSD following critical incidents. This said, there are limitations to the existing evidence base. There is significant variety in the ways resilience‐building programmes are: theoretically orientated, populations targeted, how they are delivered, setting used, and outcomes measured (with further variety in scales used within specific outcomes). This has made drawing conclusions on how effective these programmes are, difficult as they are often not sufficiently similar to make fair comparisons. Future evaluations need to overcome these limitations, thus allowing us to determine if these programmes have value in pre‐deployment preparation and training. 
