Usefulness of surfactant for bronchiolitis in seriously ill infants and children
Review question  Will use of exogenous surfactant (a material made of lipid and protein that is produced by the lungs) in infants and children with bronchiolitis, who require mechanical ventilation, decrease mortality and duration of mechanical ventilation? 
Background  Bronchiolitis (infection of small airways in the lungs) is one of the most common causes of respiratory failure in infants. There are no established treatment options for bronchiolitis. Surfactant may be useful in bronchiolitis because of its favourable effect on lung mechanics. We wanted to evaluate the efficacy of exogenous surfactant in reducing mortality and the duration of ventilation in infants and children with bronchiolitis, requiring mechanical ventilation. 
Study characteristics  The evidence is current to June 2015. Three small randomised controlled trials (RCTs) enrolling 79 participants were included in the review. All studies included children younger than 2.5 years with a diagnosis of bronchiolitis who required mechanical ventilation. Two studies did not include a placebo (a substance having no active effect) for comparison. None of the included studies provided a source of funding. 
Key results  Two included studies reported no mortality. Use of surfactant for mechanically ventilated infants and children with bronchiolitis did not decrease the duration of mechanical ventilation. However, the intervention decreased duration of stay in the intensive care unit and had favourable effects on oxygenation and carbon dioxide removal. No complications were observed in any of the three included studies. 
Quality of the evidence  The level of evidence for duration of mechanical ventilation, duration of intensive care unit stay, oxygenation parameters, and carbon dioxide parameters was of moderate quality. The limited number of studies with small numbers of participants was the reason for moderate quality, and are limitations of this review. There is a need for larger trials to establish any benefits of surfactant for bronchiolitis in critically ill infants and children. 
