Beginning treatment of hypertension with one medicine versus with a combination of two medicines 
What is high blood pressure? 
This is the second update of a review published for the first time in 2017. Hypertension (high blood pressure) is a long‐term condition that increases the risk of health problems such as heart attack, stroke, or kidney disease.  
How is high blood pressure treated? 
Several types of medicines are used to treat hypertension. Over time a person with hypertension will often need more than one type of medicine to help control their blood pressure. A doctor prescribing medicines to reduce blood pressure for the first time in a patient has two options: using only one medicine (monotherapy) or using two medicines (combination therapy). Combination therapy can be in the same tablet or in different tablets. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if there are differences between treating people with high blood pressure with one medicine or with two medicines. The potential advantage of using two medicines is that blood pressure may fall faster, but we do not know if this is better or worse for avoiding harmful effects in the patient. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared starting treatment of hypertension in adults with one medicine versus studies that started treatment with two medicines. Studies had to talk about results such as deaths or other events caused by diseases of the heart or the blood vessels, such as heart attack, stroke, or heart failure. Studies could also talk about other kinds of health‐related side effects. We only chose studies with 50 or more people in each group and that lasted at least 12 months.  
What did we find? 
In this update we did not find any new studies, with a total of four studies included in the review, with 419 treated with one medicine and 349 people treated with more than one medicine. However, there was not enough information to answer our review question. There is a need for more and larger studies that compare using one medicine versus using two medicines as the first treatment for high blood pressure. 
