Drug treatment for familial amyloid polyneuropathy
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to assess whether drugs to treat familial amyloid polyneuropathies (FAPs) reduce disability due to nerve damage, reduce the severity of nerve damage, and improve nutritional status, quality of life, and depression. We also reviewed evidence on side effects. 
Key messages 
Studies of drug treatments for people with FAP are so far limited to transthyretin‐FAP (also called TTR‐FAP). Four trials have compared a drug with a placebo (an inactive, dummy compound), but none have directly compared drugs with each other. The studies provided evidence that all four drugs studied (tafamidis, diflunisal, patisiran, and inotersen) are probably of benefit for people with TTR‐FAP, but it remains possible that their true effects are different from these results. As research comparing drugs with each other is limited by study size required to demonstrate the superiority of one drug and costs, studies monitoring their effects for longer are needed. 
What was studied in the review? 
FAPs are a group of hereditary progressive conditions in which insoluble protein deposits (fibrils) affect mainly peripheral nerves (nerves outside the brain and spinal cord). Fibrils are deposited because they are made up of genetically abnormal protein that does not fold properly. This process also occurs in many other organs including the heart, kidneys, and eyes, thus these disorders are complex. The type of protein fibril deposited and the exact genetic defect determine the type of FAP. TTR‐FAP is the most common FAP by far. Although liver transplantation was the only treatment, done in highly selected cases, drugs which may affect the disease course have recently become available for people with TTR‐FAP. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found four relevant studies, which involved 655 adults with TTR‐FAP.
In one study, people with early‐stage TTR‐FAP received tafamidis or placebo for 18 months. Disability was not measured. The evidence suggested that tafamidis may reduce both the proportion of people with progression of peripheral neuropathy and the mean change (worsening) of nerve damage (based on a score of strength and sensation) compared to placebo. It is uncertain whether tafamidis has an effect on quality of life and the number of deaths, dropouts due to harmful effects or any severe side effects. 
