Antibiotics for the treatment of Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease (CD) is an inflammatory disorder that can affect any segment of the gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus. Common symptoms of CD include fever, diarrhea, abdominal pain and weight loss. CD is characterized by periods of relapse when people experience symptoms and periods of remission when the symptoms stop. 
What are antibiotics? 
Antibiotics are medications used to treat bacterial infections. Antibiotics are designed to target specific bacterial populations and have different mechanisms of action to stop a bacterial population from growing or eradicate the bacteria. 
What is the purpose this study? 
Antibiotics are commonly used for managing patients with CD because the inflammatory process in the bowel was believed to be triggered by a specific bacterial pathogen. Elimination of this bacterial target would allow the inflammatory process to resolve. However, current clinical guidelines do not recommend use of antibiotic agents to induce or maintain clinical remission in patients with CD because there is no definitive evidence to suggest a benefit to using antibiotics in this way. 
How was this study performed? 
A systematic review of current literature was performed to determine whether antibiotic therapy is effective to induce or maintain remission in CD. An electronic search of several databases was performed and studies that met our inclusion criteria were selected for further evaluation. Statistical analyses were performed to determine which specific antibiotics had an overall benefit. 
What were the results? 
Several antibiotics, including ciprofloxacin, metronidazole, clarithromycin, rifaximin and cotrimoxazole, have been studied in CD. Most of the included studies were small in size. When we pooled antibiotics as a class, these drugs provided a modest benefit over placebo (i.e. a fake drug such as a sugar pill) for induction of remission and improvement of CD symptoms. For example, remission rates were 45% (253/542) in participants who received antibiotics compared to 36% (82/231) in participants who received placebo. We rated the quality of evidence supporting this outcome as high. Few studies assessed the use of antibiotics for maintenance of remission in CD. The impact of antibiotics on preventing relapse in CD is uncertain. Antibiotics do not appear to increase the risk of side effects when compared to placebo. Common side effects reported in the studies included gastrointestinal upset, upper respiratory tract infection, abscess formation, headache, change in taste and paraesthesia (pins and needles in the extremities). Serious side effects were not well reported in the studies and the impact of antibiotics on the risk of serious side effects is uncertain. 
