Stem cells for treating patients not responding to Crohn's disease treatment
Question 
Are stem cells (SCs) an effective and safe option in patients with Crohn's disease (CD) when they do not respond to their standard medical treatment?  
Key messages 
Stem cells when combined with standard medical treatment could be better than the medical treatment alone or with a placebo (a dummy treatment) in the healing of the opening in the perianal region connected to the bowels caused by CD (perianal fistula). 
Stem cells when combined with standard medical treatment could be safe when compared to the medical treatment alone or with a placebo in treating the bowel inflammation associated with Crohn's disease (total and serious adverse events). 
What are stem cells?  Stem cells are the cells responsible for forming new cells and renewing the surrounding tissue. They are also responsible for modifying the immune system. There are various types of SCs, self‐stem cells extracted from the patient's own body (autologous) and non‐self stem cells extracted from other individuals (allogeneic). They could be found in the bone marrow, fat tissue, placenta, umbilical vein, etc.  
What is Crohn's disease? It is an autoimmune (fighting the patient's own body) disease‐causing inflammation and stenosis of the bowel, or causing a bowel opening in the skin (fistula). CD usually follows an "on and off" pattern, it also affects the mortality, morbidity, and quality of life of the patients. Standard treatment of CD includes drugs that suppress the immunity of the patient including anti‐inflammatory, immunosuppressive, and biological drugs. However, one‐third of patients do not respond to medical or surgical treatment.  
Why was this Cochrane Review conducted? To assess if SCs are effective and safe in patients with CD who do not respond to medical treatment (i.e. refractory CD).  
What did we do? We assessed randomised controlled trials on the topic. 
How up to date is this evidence? 
This evidence is up‐to‐date to March 2021.
What did we find? 
We found seven trials on the topic, including 442 patients (234 in the stem cell group and 208 in the placebo or control groups). The follow‐up duration in the studies varied from one to four years. We included seven RCTs with a total of 442 participants for the meta‐analysis. The intervention group included 234 patients, and the control group included 208 patients.  We assessed the effect of both the systemic and local administration of SCs. The intervention group included 127 males (55.95%) and 100 females (44.05%), while the control/placebo group included 114 males (56.44%) and 88 females (43.56%). Studies were conducted in the UK, China, Spain, the Netherlands, and the USA. 
We found data on clinical remission in  three studies, data on achieving Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI) <150 after 24 weeks in three studies, data on fistula closure short and long term in four studies, data on the total number of adverse events in four studies, data on serious adverse events in seven studies, and data on withdrawal due to adverse events in three studies. 
What are our main results? 
In patients who did not respond to standard medical treatment for CD, we found that: when using SCs combined with medical treatment compared to medical treatment alone or with placebo, it is unclear whether they cause an achievement of improvement in the clinical remission, or in the clinical score CDAI to <150 after 24 weeks. SCs combined with medical treatment, when compared to the standard medical treatment, are likely to lead to improvement in the rate of fistula closure in both the short and long term. SCs combined with medical treatment, when compared to the standard medical treatment, are less likely to change the number of total adverse events. SCs combined with medical treatment, when compared to the standard medical treatment, are more probable to increase the number of occurrences of serious adverse events, but are less likely to decrease the number of patients who withdrew due to adverse events.  
