Comparison of exenterative surgery versus medical management for women with recurrent gynaecological malignancies 
Background 
Cancer is a leading cause of death worldwide. Gynaecological cancers (i.e. cancers affecting the ovaries, uterus, cervix, vulva and vagina) are among the most common cancers in women, with a higher incidence in developing countries. Globally, a woman's risk of developing cancer of the cervix, ovaries or uterus by the age of 65 is 2.2%; cancers of the vulva and vagina are less common. The biology of recurrent ovarian cancer differs from that of other gynaecological cancers; it is often responsive to chemotherapy and is not included in this review. 
Review question 
Unfortunately, in some women with gynaecological cancer, the disease will return (recur) or progress after initial treatment. Cancer recurrence is defined as the return of cancer after treatment and after a period during which the cancer is undetectable. Although the surgical management of early cancers is relatively straightforward, with lower associated morbidity and mortality, the surgical management of advanced and recurrent cancer is significantly more complicated, often requiring very extensive operations. Pelvic exenterative surgery involves removal of some or all of the pelvic organs, including lower bowel (rectum with or without the sigmoid colon and sometimes the anal canal), bladder, reproductive organs (including womb, fallopian tubes, ovaries, vagina and vulva), pelvic peritoneum (the membrane that lines the pelvis and pelvic organs) and sometimes the perineum (external area around the vagina and anus), with reconstruction. The intent of exenterative surgery should be resection of all tumour with clear histological margins with the aim of cure. It is radical, often mutilating, surgery that is associated with significant postoperative side effects (morbidity) and risk of death (mortality), and it is a major undertaking for both patient and surgeon. However, it may be the only potentially curative treatment option for women with recurrent cancer.  
Quality of the evidence 
Although two review authors independently checked 1311 articles identified by searching, we found no relevant studies that were suitable for inclusion in the review. Therefore, no evidence is currently available from which to determine whether exenterative surgery is better than, equivalent to or worse than non‐surgical treatment in terms of prolonged survival, treatment‐related complications and impact on quality of life. This review highlights the need for good‐quality studies comparing exenterative surgery versus non‐surgical treatment in women with recurrent gynaecological cancer. 
