Primary care professionals providing non‐urgent care in hospital emergency departments
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether placing primary care professionals, such as general practitioners, in the hospital emergency department (ED) to provide care for patients with non‐urgent health problems can decrease resource use and costs. We searched for and analysed published and unpublished studies and found four relevant studies. This is the first update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Key messages 
We cannot be sure whether placing primary care professionals in the ED to provide care for patients with non‐urgent problems is as effective or safe as regularly scheduled emergency physician care, as we found little evidence with inconsistent results, which we assessed as of very low certainty. Safety has not been examined. 
What was studied in the review? 
In many countries, EDs are under a lot of pressure due to high patient attendance, resulting in long waits. One way of solving this problem may be to place primary care professionals in EDs to provide care for patients who do not have problems assessed as urgent at arrival. It has been suggested that this would make emergency physicians more available to provide care to more serious cases, thus decreasing resource use and costs. 
What are the main results of the review? 
This review included one randomised and three non‐randomised studies, involving a total of 11,463 patients, 16 general practitioners, nine emergency nurse practitioners, and 69 emergency physicians. Studies were conducted in Ireland, the UK, and Australia, with money given by national or regional health authorities and a medical research funding body. We could not combine the results due to differences among the studies. Because the evidence we found was of very low certainty, we cannot be certain if the intervention makes any difference to waiting times or total length of ED stay (1 study; 260 participants), admissions to hospital, diagnostic tests, treatments given, consultations or referrals to hospital‐based specialists (3 studies; 11,203 participants), as well as costs (2 studies; 9325 participants). None of the included studies provided data on adverse events. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies published up to May 2017.
