Conflicts of interest and recommendations in clinical guidelines, advisory committee reports, opinion pieces, and narrative reviews 
Which treatments and diagnostic tests doctors offer to their patients are often based on recommendations expressed in a variety of documents. A common example is clinical guidelines, which are statements providing recommendations on how to diagnose and treat patients on the basis of the best available evidence. The treatments that may be offered to patients are also influenced by which drugs are recommended for approval by drug advisory committees at regulatory drug agencies such as the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA). Finally, doctors may also be influenced by recommendations expressed in opinion pieces, such as editorials, or in narrative review papers in medical journals. 
Quite often, publications expressing clinical recommendations are written by authors with conflicts of interest related to a specific product, for example when the author acts as a consultant for the company producing the treatment of interest. Such conflicts of interest may impact on the recommendations made. Similarly, authors may have so‐called non‐financial conflicts of interest such as belonging to a specific profession, for example being an orthopaedic surgeon, which may influence whether a specific intervention is preferred over another. This Cochrane Methodology Review investigated how financial and non‐financial conflicts of interest are associated with the recommendations made in clinical guidelines, advisory committee reports, opinion pieces, and narrative reviews. 
We included 21 studies and we interpreted our findings to indicate that financial conflicts of interest are associated with favourable recommendations in these documents, although there is some uncertainty around the size of the effect. This means that when such publications are written by authors with financial conflicts of interest, they more often have favourable recommendations than publications written by authors without conflicts of interest. Only a single study investigated the impact of non‐financial conflicts of interest in clinical guidelines and the results were uncertain, but indicated a similar direction of effect. 
