What are the benefits and risks of different surgical approaches for primary congenital glaucoma (an eye condition that affects children under five years old)? 
Why this question is importantPrimary congenital glaucoma (PCG) is a rare disease of the optic nerve. It affects children who are under five years old, and is caused by abnormally high pressure in the eye. This develops when the eye’s drainage system does not work properly, and fluid builds up in the eye. The increased pressure in the eye can damage the optic nerve, and cause partial—or even total—blindness. 
The most common treatment for PCG is surgery. There are different surgical approaches that aim to decrease pressure in the eye. For example, in goniotomy an incision is made to create an opening on the inside of the eye, through which fluid can drain, while in trabeculotomy an incision is made on the outside of the eye. A third technique, trabeculectomy, involves removing some tissue from the eye to create an opening; this may be combined with trabeculotomy. 
As with any medical treatment, each surgical approach for PCG has potential benefits and risks. To find out whether some surgical procedures are more beneficial, or cause more unwanted effects, than others, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. 
How we identified and assessed the evidenceFirst, we searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results, and summarized the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. We considered such factors as the way studies were conducted, study size, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorized the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate, or high certainty. 
What we foundWe found 16 studies with a total of 446 children with PCG. The children were followed for between six and 80 months after surgery. Eleven studies were conducted in Egypt and the Middle East, three in India, and two in the USA. 
Trabeculectomy plus trabeculotomy versus trabeculectomy alone 
Three studies (on 68 children) compared trabeculectomy combined with trabeculotomy, against trabeculectomy alone. The studies were poorly conducted and small, and results were inconsistent across the studies (very low‐certainty evidence). So, we cannot tell from these studies which surgical approach is more successful or causes fewer unwanted effects. 
Viscotrabeculotomy versus conventional trabeculotomy 
Two studies (on 39 children) compared viscotrabeculotomy (a type of trabeculotomy that uses a thick liquid to create an opening in the eye’s drainage system) with conventional trabeculotomy. The studies were poorly conducted and small (very low‐certainty evidence), so we cannot tell from these studies which surgical approach is more successful or causes fewer unwanted effects. 
Trabeculotomy (microcatheter assisted, 360‐degree) versus conventional trabeculotomy 
Two studies (on 95 children) compared another type of trabeculotomy (microcatheter‐assisted 360‐degree trabeculotomy)—where an opening is made all around the eye with the help of a very small, hollow tube—against conventional trabeculotomy. The evidence was of moderate certainty, because the studies were well conducted, but small. The evidence suggests that microcatheter‐assisted 360‐degree trabeculotomy probably reduces eye pressure slightly one year after surgery. Children given this treatment are probably more likely to have normal eye pressure (under 21 mmHg) one year after surgery than those who have conventional trabeculotomy. However, the evidence suggests that they are probably more likely to also experience hyphema, a side effect in which blood collects at the front of the eye, partially or completely blocking vision. 
