Metal tubes (stents) or surgery (endarterectomy) for treatment of carotid stenosis
Review question 
In people with narrowing of the carotid arteries, what are the risks and benefits of inserting metal tubes (stents) compared to surgical removal of the narrowing? 
Background 
Carotid stenosis, a narrowing of a major blood vessel in the neck carrying blood to the brain, can cause stroke. The standard treatment is to remove the narrowing by surgery, in which the surgeon opens the artery and removes the plaque (carotid endarterectomy). An alternative treatment (carotid artery stenting) uses a fine catheter tube which is passed through the skin and into the narrowed blood vessel. A metal tube (stent) is placed inside the vessel to prevent it narrowing again. 
Study characteristics 
We examined evidence about benefits and risks from studies that compared carotid artery stenting to carotid surgery in people who already had symptoms caused by carotid stenosis (stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), or ocular (eye) symptoms) or in people who have never experienced symptoms. The studies had to be randomised; that is, the decision whether people were treated by stenting or surgery had to be made randomly and neither they nor the researchers were able to decide which treatment they received. This was to make the comparison as unbiased, or fair, as possible. We searched for studies up to August 2018. We assessed the quality of all the studies we included. 
Key results and conclusions 
This review included 22 studies involving 9753 participants.
In people who have already experienced symptoms from a narrowing in the carotid artery, stenting caused more strokes or deaths around the time of the procedure than surgery. This was especially true for people over the age of 70 years. After the initial procedure, both treatments were equally effective in preventing stroke or death in the long term. 
In people who had never experienced symptoms from the carotid stenosis, both carotid artery stenting and surgery carried a similar risk of stroke or death in the short and long term, although the certainty of the evidence in these people was only moderate and the results should be interpreted with caution. 
