Hormonal therapy for sexual function in menopausal women
We aimed to assess the effect of hormonal therapy (HT), specifically estrogens alone, estrogens in combination with progestogens, synthetic steroids, and SERMs, on sexual function in perimenopausal and postmenopausal women. The time around and after the last menstrual period (menopause) is associated with many symptoms, including a decline of sexual function. HT is a generic term that refers to any type of hormone therapy used during menopause for alleviation of menopause‐related symptoms. We carried out an electronic search of medical literature databases, searching for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing hormone therapy (HT) to either no treatment or a placebo treatment. No other type of study was included. The last search was performed in December 2012. 
Twenty‐seven studies were included; they were conducted in more than 30 countries. Sexual function was assessed in 8802 women in the treatment groups and in 7591 women in the control groups. A single study was responsible for the inclusion of 8462 women, 51.2% of the total number. We grouped the studies by participant characteristics with regard to menopausal symptoms. The symptomatic or early menopausal group was from nine studies in which women were perimenopausal (one study), up to 36 months postmenopause (one study), up to five years postmenopause (one study), experiencing vasomotor or other menopausal symptoms (five studies), or experiencing hot flushes and sexual dysfunction (one study). The unselected postmenopausal women group came from 18 studies. The group included women regardless of menopausal symptoms and allowed inclusion of women with more than five years since their final menstrual period. No studies were restricted to women with sexual dysfunction and only five studies evaluated sexual function as a primary outcome. Eighteen studies were deemed at high risk of bias, and the other nine studies were at unclear risk of bias. Twenty studies received commercial funding. 
