How should we give taxane as a single chemotherapy agent to women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer? 
BackgroundThere are a variety of options for chemotherapy treatment of relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. Decisions at relapse include not just what drug, but also what dose and timing of administration. Taxanes can be given in once‐weekly (at a lower dose) or three‐weekly (at a higher dose) regimens, which may lead to differences in the severity of side effects and effectiveness. As relapsed disease suggests incurable disease; it is all the more important to consider side effects and the impact of treatment schedules, as well as quality of life, and not only the life‐prolonging effects of treatment. 
ObjectivesTo assess the benefits and side effects of different treatment intervals and different doses of taxane chemotherapy for women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. 
MethodsWe included randomised‐controlled trials (RCTs) (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) of two or more taxane treatments for women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. The clinical outcomes we examined were: 1) overall survival ‐ how long a participant survives after their diagnosis; 2) response rate ‐ how many participants have scan or blood test evidence that their ovarian cancer reduces in size in response to chemotherapy; 3) progression‐free survival ‐ the amount of time a participant lives with the disease without evidence of it continuing to grow; 4) neurotoxicity ‐ how many participants experienced nerve damage leading to sensory or motor co‐ordination problems, usually in their hands and feet; 5) neutropenia ‐ how many participants experienced a dangerous drop in white blood cells (neutrophils) which can lead to infection; 6) alopecia ‐ how many participants experienced high levels of hair loss; 7) quality of life ‐ a measure of the overall impact of the disease and treatment on the participants' daily life; this is recorded by a questionnaire. 
We performed statistical analyses following Cochrane methodology.
ResultsWe included four RCTs which we assessed as being at low risk of bias, i.e. the results are likely to be a fair reflection of the differences between the groups studied. These studies included data for 981 women who had relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. 
Weekly versus three‐weekly taxane treatmentWe found that there are probably few or no differences in how long women survived after treatment and there may be little or no difference in how long it took for their cancers to re‐grow if taxanes were given weekly or three‐weekly. There may be little or no difference in the number of women who had evidence of their cancer shrinking in response to taxane treatment if given weekly or three‐weekly. 
However, we found that there were probably differences in the side effects between the weekly and three‐weekly regimens. Women probably experienced more severe hair loss (alopecia) and may be more likely to have neutropenia (a lower level of white blood cells, which can lead to infections) in the three‐weekly paclitaxel treatment compared to a lower dose of taxane given more frequently with weekly treatment. There may or may not be an increased risk of neurotoxicity (nerve damage) with three‐weekly paclitaxel when given at a higher dose, but we have low certainty about this result. 
Different doses of taxane given three‐weeklyWomen who received a lower dose of taxane every three weeksprobably had less neurotoxicity and we have moderate certainty in this result. We found that there are probably few or no differences in how long women survived or how long it took for their cancer to progress after treatment between the groups. 
