Home‐based versus supervised centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation
Review question 
We compared home‐based cardiac rehabilitation programmes with supervised centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation for adults with myocardial infarction (blood flow to the heart has stopped), angina (chest pain), heart failure or who had undergone revascularisation. 
Background 
Cardiac rehabilitation aims to restore people with heart disease to health, through a combination of exercise, education and psychological support. Traditionally, centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation programmes (e.g. based at a hospital, gymnasium or in sport centre) are offered to people after cardiac events. Home‐based cardiac rehabilitation programmes have been introduced to increase access and participation. 
Search date 
We searched up to September 2016.
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (trials that randomly allocate participants to one of two or more treatment groups) looking at the effectiveness of home‐based versus supervised centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation programmes, in adults with heart disease. 
We included 23 trials (2890 participants). Most trials were relatively small (median 104 participants, range: 20 to 525). The average age of trial participants ranged from 51.6 to 69 years. Women accounted for only 19% of recruited participants; four trials did not include women. 
The mix of people recruited to the trials varied; 10 studies included a mixed population of people with coronary heart disease, five studies included people who had had a heart attack, and four studies each recruited people following revascularisation or who had heart failure. 
Study funding sources 
Sixteen studies reported sources of funding; seven did not. No study reported funding from an agency with commercial interest in the results. 
Key results 
We found that home‐ and centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation programmes are similar in benefits measured in terms of numbers of deaths, exercise capacity and health‐related quality of life. Further data are needed to confirm if these short‐term effects of home‐ and centre‐based cardiac rehabilitation can be sustained over time. 
Quality of the evidence 
Poor reporting made it difficult to assess methodological quality of the included studies and their risk of bias. Evidence quality ranged from very low (total mortality), to moderate (exercise capacity over 12 months and health‐related quality of life). The main reasons for the low assessment of quality was poor reporting in the included studies. 
