Rapid molecular tests for tuberculosis and tuberculosis drug resistance: the views and experiences of people who are tested and healthcare providers 
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to understand the experiences and opinions of people using rapid automated tests that identify tuberculosis and resistance to tuberculosis drugs (molecular diagnostic tests). Users include people who might have tuberculosis and their families or caregivers, doctors, nurses, laboratory staff, and managers of services or programmes. 
What was studied in this review?  
Rapid molecular diagnostic tests were designed to make diagnosis easier and faster for people with signs and symptoms of tuberculosis, because they do not require a well‐equipped laboratory, but can be done in clinics closer to where people live. Since these tests can also suggest whether an individual suffers from drug‐resistant tuberculosis (including multidrug‐resistant tuberculosis (MDR‐TB)), the right treatment can be started earlier. We collected and analysed all relevant studies and found 32 studies conducted in areas where tuberculosis is common in low‐ and middle‐income countries. 
MDR‐TB is tuberculosis caused by resistance to at least rifampicin and isoniazid, the two most effective first‐line drugs used to treat tuberculosis.  
This qualitative evidence synthesis links to another Cochrane Review that examines the diagnostic accuracy of a rapid molecular test for tuberculosis drug resistance. Yet, diagnostic tests only have an impact on health if they are put to use in a correct and timely manner. Accuracy studies do not reveal what users think of or how they experience the test in question. We need to understand the perspectives and experiences of all users. Otherwise, we risk these tests not fitting settings where they are to be used or not being accessible for those in need. 
What are the main findings? 
People with tuberculosis value knowing what is wrong with them. People valued having an accurate diagnosis, avoiding delays in being diagnosed, having accessible testing facilities, and keeping cost low. Similarly, healthcare providers value having accurate tests that give them confidence in the diagnosis, rapid results, and keeping cost low, being able to use different specimens (such as sputum and stool)  and receiving information about drug resistance as part of the test results. Laboratory personnel appreciated that laboratory work was made easier and that staff was more satisfied thanks to rapid molecular diagnostic tests. 
Our review also identified several challenges to realizing these values. Some people with tuberculosis and some healthcare providers were reluctant to use rapid molecular diagnostic tests because of fears of testing positive, concerns of stigma or discredit in the community, or expenses related to the testing. Additional support is required to overcome these barriers that are common to other approaches to testing for tuberculosis. Other challenges that led to delays and underuse of rapid molecular diagnostic tests were health system inefficiencies; poor quality of specimens; difficulty in transporting specimens; lack of sufficient resources such as staff or equipment; increased workload for providers; inefficiencies in integrating the test into routines at clinics; the complicated or lengthy steps involved in obtaining a tuberculosis diagnosis; clinicians relying too much on the test result while neglecting their own experience with diagnosing tuberculosis; and processes of implementing the test in national programmes that lacked data about real‐life situations and did not include all relevant stakeholders such as local decision‐makers, providers or people seeking a diagnosis. 
