Are antibiotics an effective treatment for COVID‐19 and do they cause unwanted effects?
Key messages 
• The antibiotic azithromycin is not an effective treatment for COVID‐19.
• We don’t know whether antibiotics other than azithromycin are effective treatments for COVID‐19 because there is not enough research. 
• We found 19 ongoing studies that are investigating antibiotics for COVID‐19. We will update this review if their results change our conclusions. 
What are antibiotics? 
Antibiotics are cheap and common medicines used to treat bacterial infections. However, recent laboratory studies found that some antibiotics slowed the reproduction of some viruses, including SARS‐CoV‐2, the virus that causes COVID‐19. In laboratory tests, one antibiotic, azithromycin, reduced viral activity and inflammation, and so it has been studied as a potential treatment for COVID‐19. We need good evidence before giving antibiotics for COVID‐19 because overuse or misuse of antibiotics can lead to ‘antimicrobial resistance’, where organisms that cause infection change, so that antibiotics stop working.  
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know if antibiotics reduce death, severity of disease, and length of infection in people with COVID‐19, if they have an effect on quality of life or cause unwanted effects. We included studies that compared antibiotics to placebo (dummy treatment), no treatment, usual care, another antibiotic, or treatments for COVID‐19 that are known to work to some extent, such as remdesivir or dexamethasone. We excluded treatments that we know do not work for COVID‐19, such as hydroxychloroquine, or have an unknown influence on the disease. 
We evaluated the effects of antibiotics on people with COVID‐19 on:• people dying;• whether people's COVID‐19 symptoms got better or worse;• unwanted effects;• heart rhythm problems;• quality of life.  
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that investigated antibiotics to treat people with COVID‐19 in hospital or as outpatients. 
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on common criteria such as study methods and sizes. 
