5‐Fluorouracil compared with placebo or no intervention during or after surgery for glaucoma 
Background  Glaucoma involves a loss of vision that may be associated with raised pressure inside the eye. When glaucoma is diagnosed, it is common to try to reduce that pressure with medical, laser or surgical procedures (trabeculectomy). Surgery does not immediately restore vision, and may involve extra vision loss in the short term. Drugs can be used to modify wound healing to improve the likelihood of the success of surgery. 
Study characteristics  This is a summary of a Cochrane review that looked at the effect of using one of these drugs, 5‐Fluorouracil (5‐FU). We gathered evidence from 12 trials involving 1319 participants. The evidence is current to July 2013. 
5‐FU injections after glaucoma surgery  For patients who have never had eye surgery before, 5‐FU injections after surgery can slightly reduce the pressure in the eye after one year and also the risk of having more surgery in the first year. 
For patients having both cataract surgery and glaucoma surgery at the same time, no difference has been detected between injections and no injections. 
Some people are at higher risk of having problems following trabeculectomy, for instance people that have had previous surgery on the eye. For this group, the 5‐FU injections can reduce the pressure in the eye a little and also reduce the risk of having more surgery in the first year. 
Low‐dose 5‐FU injections after glaucoma surgery  Only one study has investigated the effect of using lower than normal doses in the injections. No benefit was found when compared to a control group who had no injections. 
5‐FU during surgery  If 5‐Fluorouracil was applied to the eye during the surgery, there was less chance of having to have more surgery within the year and the pressure in the eye was also reduced slightly at one year. 
Side effects and complications of 5‐FU during or after surgery  Complications such as damage to cells at the front of the eye or a leak from the wound seem more common when 5‐FU is used. 
Quality of evidence  The methodological quality of the trials was not high in general. In many of the studies that contributed to the evidence about 5‐FU after glaucoma surgery the researchers were aware of whether the participant had received the dummy injection or the 5‐FU injection. This may have introduced bias into the results. Importantly the only study contributing information about low dose 5‐FU was of low methodological quality so our conclusions on low dose 5‐FU must be cautious. 
