Restrictive or liberal red blood cell transfusion policies for people with blood cancer
Review question 
To determine the benefit and harm of a restrictive red blood cell transfusion strategy when compared with a liberal red blood cell transfusion strategy for people diagnosed with a blood cancer (for example leukaemia, lymphoma, myeloma) who were receiving intensive treatments for their disease (chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation). 
Background 
People with blood cancers often have anaemia (low haemoglobin level) due to their underlying cancer or its treatment (chemotherapy or a stem cell transplant. Haemoglobin is essential for carrying oxygen around the body. 
A red blood cell transfusion is given to increase the haemoglobin level to prevent symptoms of anaemia occurring, or to treat symptoms of anaemia. The decision to give a red cell transfusion should balance its benefits with its potential risks (e.g. rash, fever, chills, developing breathing problems). These reactions are usually mild and easily treated, severe reactions to red blood cell transfusions are extremely rare. In high‐income countries the likelihood of getting an infection from a red blood cell transfusion is very low, however the risk is much higher in low‐income countries. The need for a red cell transfusion is usually guided by the haemoglobin level. In people with other conditions a transfusion is usually given if the haemoglobin level drops to around 70 g/L to 80 g/L (restrictive transfusion strategy). People with blood cancers may benefit from a higher haemoglobin level (100 g/L to 120g/L, liberal transfusion strategy), they may bleed less and have an improved quality of life. In people undergoing surgery or people who are admitted to intensive care units a restrictive transfusion strategy has been shown to be as safe as, or safer than a liberal transfusion strategy. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised and prospective non‐randomised trials. Six studies met our inclusion criteria, four are completed and two are still ongoing. An additional study is awaiting classification. The completed studies were conducted between 1997 and 2015 and included 240 participants. One study included children receiving a stem cell transplant and it was stopped early due to safety concerns (six children), the other three studies only included adults, 218 adults with acute leukaemia receiving chemotherapy, and 16 with a blood cancer receiving a stem cell transplant. Three studies were randomised controlled trials and the fourth was a non‐randomised study. The haemoglobin threshold of the restrictive strategies varied across the studies. 
The sources of funding were reported in all four studies. One study was industry sponsored.
Key results 
The evidence is current to June 2016 and is mainly based on adults with acute leukaemia who are having chemotherapy. 
A restrictive red blood cell transfusion policy may reduce the number of red blood cell transfusions received by an individual. 
A restrictive red blood cell transfusion policy may have little or no effect on: whether an individual receives a red blood cell transfusion; death due to any cause; bleeding; or hospital stay. 
We are uncertain whether a restrictive red blood cell transfusion policy affects quality of life, or the risk of developing a serious infection. 
No studies were found that looked at: adverse reactions to transfusion; development of blood clots; length of stay in intensive care; or need to be readmitted to hospital. 
There are two ongoing trials (planning to recruit 530 adults) that are due to be completed by January 2018 and will provide additional information for adults with blood cancers. There are no ongoing trials in children. 
Quality of evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was very low to low as the included studies were at considerable risk of bias, the estimates were imprecise, and most of the evidence was only for adults with acute leukaemia. 
