Planned caesarean section for a twin pregnancy
The incidence of twins varies considerably between communities and families and has recently increased because of the number of older mothers and the use of fertility treatments and assisted conception. Infants from a twin pregnancy are at a higher risk of death around the time of birth than are infants from a singleton pregnancy. Some of this is due to a higher risk of preterm birth. The second‐born twin has an increased risk of a poor perinatal outcome compared with the first‐born twin. 
A policy of planned vaginal birth for women with a twin pregnancy in a hospital setting is associated with a 30% to 40% rate of emergency caesarean section. When the first twin is born vaginally, there is still a risk of emergency section for the birth of the second twin. It is possible that some of the adverse outcomes may be avoided by appropriately timed delivery by caesarean section but the risks of caesarean section for the mother in the current and subsequent pregnancies must be taken into account. 
In this review we included two randomised trials comparing planned caesarean versus planned vaginal birth for twin pregnancies which together included 2864 women. For important outcomes the evidence was assessed as being of moderate quality. 
For maternal mortality no events were reported in one trial and two deaths (one in each group) in the other. There was no clear evidence of differences between women randomised to planned caesarean or planned vaginal birth for death or serous illness in either the mothers or babies. No studies reported childhood disability. 
The number of women undergoing caesarean section was reported in both trials. Most women in the planned caesarean group had treatment as planned (90.9%), whereas in the planned vaginal birth group 42.9% had caesarean section for at least one twin. There were no significant differences between groups for failure to breastfeed or for postnatal depression. 
There is very little clear research evidence to provide guidance on the method of birth for twin pregnancies. The benefits and risks should be made available to women, including short‐term and long‐term consequences for both mother and babies. Future research should aim to provide more clarity on this issue as medical interventions in the birth process should be avoided unless there is reasonable clinical certainty that they will be of long‐term benefit. 
