Haemophilus influenzae type B and viral influenza vaccinations during pregnancy for improving maternal, neonatal and infant health outcomes 
Maternal immunisation with Haemophilus influenzae type B (Hib) and viral influenza vaccines may reduce the risk of infections in mothers and infants, however, this is an area of controversy. Both infections can cause severe pneumonia and deaths among children under five years of age, particularly in developing countries. Rates of influenza‐associated complications and consequent hospitalisations are substantially higher among pregnant women, infants and newborns. Pregnant women who are vaccinated against influenza have protective levels of anti‐influenza antibodies, which can be passively transferred to the infant to improve their health outcomes. Infants of immune mothers usually have influenza symptoms that are delayed in onset and of shorter duration. This review investigated whether vaccinating pregnant women with Hib and viral influenza vaccinations during pregnancy could reduce the risk of infection among mothers and babies and improve health outcomes for both. 
Two trials were included this review. One trial (considered to be at a high risk of bias) evaluated the impact of Hib vaccination during pregnancy and the other trial (judged to be at a low risk of bias) evaluated the impact of viral influenza vaccination during pregnancy. 
In one small study (involving 213 women, mainly Hispanic and with low income, and 213 neonates, conducted in the US), women were given either Hib vaccination or a placebo control at between 34 to 36 weeks gestation. This trial did not report on any of this review's primary outcomes, including: mortality, respiratory tract infection or sepsis among the women or their babies. Nor did the study report on any of this review's other secondary outcomes apart from preterm birth and there were no clear differences between the vaccination and placebo groups. 
In one large trial (involving 2116 women and 2049 infants, conducted in Soweto, South Africa) pregnant women received either inactivated viral influenza vaccination or a placebo control. Viral influenza vaccination was associated with a reduction in confirmed influenza among women and their babies. However, there was no clear difference between groups in terms of pregnancy outcomes (miscarriage, preterm labour and stillbirth), influenza‐like illness in women or their babies (high quality evidence), any respiratory illness, hospitalisation for respiratory infections and deaths among women (moderate quality evidence) and their babies (moderate quality evidence), neonatal hospitalisation for sepsis (moderate quality evidence), or maternal hospitalisation for any infection (moderate quality evidence). Similarly, there was no clear difference in any adverse systemic reactions between the vaccine and placebo groups. Evidence from one large high quality trial on the effectiveness of viral influenza vaccine during pregnancy suggests reduced reverse‐transcriptase–polymerase‐chain‐reaction (RT‐PCR) ) confirmed influenza among women and their babies, suggesting the potential of this strategy for scale up but further evidence from varying contexts is required. 
