Aripiprazole versus other atypical antipsychotics
In many countries in the industrialised world there has been a huge growth in the prescription of medication for people with mental health problems, taken orally as a tablet or by injection. Atypical and second generation antipsychotic drugs have become ever more popular, because they are thought to help people with mental health problems who do not respond quite so well to initial treatment. These newer drugs hold the promise of both reducing symptoms, such as hearing voices or seeing things, and reducing problematic side effects, such as sleepiness, weight gain, and shaking. 
However, there is little research and comparison of the ways in which drugs differ from one another. This review examines the effectiveness of aripiprazole with other new antipsychotics.  Originally the review included 12 research trials. After an update search carried out in November 2012, 162 trials were added. Most of these trials were from China and although new data were added to the review, overall conclusions did not change. The review now has five comparisons with aripiprazole being compared with clozapine, olanzapine, quetiapine, risperidone and ziprasidone. 
For people with schizophrenia it may be important to know that aripiprazole may not be as good or effective as olanzapine but that it has less side effects. Aripiprazole is similar in effectiveness to risperidone and somewhat better than ziprasidone. Aripiprazole had less side‐ effects than olanzapine and risperidone (such as weight gain, sleepiness, heart problems, shaking and increased cholesterol levels). Aripiprazole was not as good as ziprasidone for dealing with restlessness or people’s inability to sit still. Comparison with other antipsychotic drugs as a group showed that people preferred taking aripiprazole. However, people with schizophrenia as well as mental health professionals and policy makers should know that the evidence is limited and mostly of low or very low quality. More trials and research is required, including on outcomes such as: quality of life; the views of service users and carers; and patient preference. 
