Scanning imaging techniques for the exclusion of pulmonary embolism during pregnancy
Pulmonary embolism is a blood clot that blocks blood flow to a portion of the lungs. Pregnant women are at high risk of pulmonary embolism, and it is a leading cause of death during pregnancy. Women at risk are treated with blood thinning medication. It is important that no cases are missed, and that treatment is prevented in women without the disease. Pulmonary embolism can be diagnosed through different scanning techniques. Little is known about the performance of these tests during pregnancy, which might be different from their performance outside pregnancy. We performed this review to establish the accuracy of the following imaging tests for diagnosing pulmonary embolism during pregnancy: computed tomography pulmonary angiography, lung scintigraphy and magnetic resonance angiography. 
We found 11 studies (current until July 2015) that described 695 computed tomography pulmonary angiography results, 665 lung scintigraphy results and no magnetic resonance angiography results. Studies on lung scintigraphy used varying techniques. Overall, these studies were of poor quality; therefore, we could not analyse results together to obtain a single estimate of their accuracy. The identified studies followed‐up patients clinically to confirm the absence of pulmonary embolism as revealed on the initial scan, so information could be used to draw conclusions only on the ability of these imaging tests to exclude pulmonary embolism, not on their ability to establish the diagnosis. 
Both computed tomography pulmonary angiography and lung scintigraphy appear appropriate for excluding pulmonary embolism in pregnancy. Almost no cases were missed, especially when the imaging test indicated the absence of disease without a doubt. However, this result should be interpreted with care because of the low quality of and variation between identified studies. Around 5% of the scans were unclear, but this percentage was as high as 36% in one study. About 3% of all women included in the studies had pulmonary embolism. We do not know which of the tests is better because tests were not directly compared in the same patients, and because aspects besides test accuracy need to be taken into account. Major limitations of this review include the use of clinical follow‐up within studies to confirm the absence of disease, unclear test results and the inability of studies to provide information on the accuracy of these tests in establishing rather than rejecting the diagnosis. High‐quality research is needed to investigate the use of computed tomography pulmonary angiography, lung scintigraphy and magnetic pulmonary angiography in the same patient groups. 
