Treatments to prevent Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP)
Background 
Sudden Unexpected Death in Epilepsy (SUDEP) is defined as sudden, unexpected, witnessed or unwitnessed, non‐traumatic or non‐drowning death of people with epilepsy, with or without evidence of an epileptic seizure, and for whom a postmortem examination reveals no other cause of death. SUDEP is the most common epilepsy‐related cause of death, with around 1 to 2 deaths per 1000 patients per year. Frequent seizures, in particular convulsive seizures (termed generalised tonic clonic seizures (GTCS)) , male gender, young age of first seizure, long duration of epilepsy, and taking multiple antiepileptic drugs are all thought to increase the risk for SUDEP; exactly why SUDEP occurs is currently unknown, however, though it is thought to be related to heart failure, breathing difficulties, and brain damage following GTCS. 
With the correct antiepileptic treatment regimen around 70% of people with epilepsy can become free of all seizures. However, around one‐third of people with epilepsy will continue to have seizures despite taking multiple antiepileptic drugs. Continuing seizures place patients at risk of SUDEP and can be associated with depression and lower quality of life. Strategies to try to prevent SUDEP include reducing the number of GTCS a patient has (by considering epilepsy surgery or making lifestyle changes), examining for heart and breathing problems during and following seizures, supervising patients at night or using safety pillows to prevent breathing difficulties. Drugs that increase the brain chemical serotonin and reduce the brain chemicals adenosine and opioids may also help prevent breathing difficulties. 
Objective 
To examine the effectiveness of treatments designed to prevent SUDEP.
Methods 
We searched electronic databases and contacted experts in the area to find relevant randomised or non‐randomised (observational) studies for the review. Outcomes of interest were: number of deaths due to SUDEP; number of other deaths not related to SUDEP; changes in anxiety, depression, and quality of life; and number of hospital attendances. 
The evidence is current to February 2019.
Results 
Out of 818 records found in our searches, we were able to include four observational studies. We found several studies that measured how sensitive devices are at detecting GTCS at night, but these studies did not measure SUDEP and so weren't relevant to this review. 
Three studies investigated whether having a supervising person sharing a bedroom with the patient and using special precautions such as regular checking throughout the night or a listening device prevented SUDEP. Two of the three studies which included 202 people who had died of SUDEP and 836 people with epilepsy who were alive found these measures did prevent SUDEP. The third study of 60 SUDEP deaths and 240 controls looked at whether increasing night‐time supervision for patients in two residential units above regular checks to include bed monitors and listening devices prevented SUDEP. This study did not show any additional preventative effect. However the same study did show that the centre with the most SUDEP deaths had the lowest level of supervision. The studies did not report on changes in anxiety, depression, quality of life and number of hospital attendances. 
