Interventions for treating wrist fractures (broken wrists) in children
Background and aim 
Wrist fractures are the most common bone injury in children. Most are buckle (or torus) fractures, where the bone surface bulges out. These minor fractures heal well. They are often treated with a wrist splint or a below‐elbow plaster cast.  More serious fractures are where the bone breaks, generally resulting in displacement of the bone parts. Usually the bone is manipulated back into place ('reduction'), followed by cast immobilisation, often with an above‐elbow cast including the elbow. When considered, surgery generally involves placing wires through the skin and into the bone (percutaneous wiring). 
We aimed to assess the best‐quality evidence for different treatments of wrist fractures in children. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to May 2018 and included 30 studies with 2930 children. Studies included more male children and reported mean ages between eight and 10 years. We summarise the results from five key comparisons. 
Key results 
Six studies compared a removable splint with a below‐elbow cast for buckle fractures. One study found there may be little or no difference between the two devices in physical function at four weeks. Few children needed a change or reapplication of either splint or cast (4 studies). There were no refractures. We are uncertain whether there is any difference in pain during device use. There was insufficient evidence to evaluate time to return to former activities (recovery time), minor complications, and child or parent satisfaction. Two studies found lower healthcare costs for splints. 
Four studies compared a soft or elasticated bandage with a below‐elbow cast for buckle fractures. We are uncertain if there is less disability at four weeks after bandaging. Few children changed device or needed extended immobilisation (3 studies). There were no serious adverse events. There was insufficient evidence to evaluate recovery time, wrist pain, minor complications, and satisfaction. Children found the bandage more convenient (1 study). 
Two studies (mainly buckle fractures) compared cast removal at home by parents versus at the hospital fracture clinic by clinicians (a cast saw was not required for home removal). All had recovered function at four weeks (1 study). There were few treatment changes and no serious adverse effects. Recovery time and number of children with minor complications were not reported. There may be no difference in pain at four weeks (1 study). There may be greater parental satisfaction for cast removal at home (1 study). One study found lower healthcare costs for home removal. 
Four studies compared below‐elbow versus above‐elbow casts in usually displaced fractures. We are uncertain if children are less dependent on help when using below‐elbow casts. We are uncertain if there is a difference between the two casts in physical function at six months (1 study). We are uncertain about the finding that all children with above‐elbow casts needed another fracture reduction. There were no serious adverse events. Recovery time and minor complications were not reported. There may be little difference in needing physiotherapy for stiffness. Pain at one week may be less for below‐elbow casts (1 study). One study found lower healthcare costs for below‐elbow casts. 
Five studies compared percutaneous wiring and above‐elbow cast immobilisation versus above‐elbow cast immobilisation alone after closed reduction of displaced fractures. Short‐term physical function was not reported. There may be no between‐group difference in function at six months (1 study). We are uncertain whether surgery reduces the risk of treatment failure, defined as early or difficult removal of wires, and remanipulation for loss in position. We are uncertain whether there are fewer serious adverse events with surgery. Recovery time, wrist pain, and satisfaction were not reported. There may be less need for physiotherapy after surgery. One USA study found treatment costs were similar. 
Quality of the evidence 
All 30 studies had weaknesses that could affect the reliability of their results. We considered the evidence for all outcomes to be low or very low quality. 
Conclusion 
There is not enough evidence to determine the best ways of treating different types of wrist fractures in children. However, the review findings are consistent with the move away from cast immobilisation for buckle fractures. 
