Post‐pyloric versus gastric tube feeding for critically ill adult patients
Review question. 
We reviewed the evidence on benefits and complications of passing a feeding tube into the small bowel instead of placing it in the stomach to feed critically ill adults admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). 
Background 
Providing early nutritional support for participants in the ICU is very important. Nutrition is supplied in a special liquid form, which is delivered through a tube placed in the mouth or nose of the person and extended into the stomach (gastric), or the tube may be advanced more distally to reach the small bowel (duodenum or jejunum), in which case it is called a post‐pyloric feeding tube. We wanted to learn about the safety and potential benefits associated with post‐pyloric feeding, as well as potential complications. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the databases until October 2013 and identified 14 studies (randomized controlled trials) with a total of 1109 participants. We reran the search on 4 February 2015 and will deal with the one study of interest when we update the review. We investigated the benefits of post‐pyloric tube feeding for reducing the rate of pneumonia, decreasing the number of days that a person needs to be dependent on a breathing machine, increasing the percentage of nutrients that can be provided to the participant and reducing the number of deaths. We also investigated potential complications that may occur during insertion of the tube, such as bleeding from the gastrointestinal tract, and complications arising during maintenance of the tube, such as the need to replace the tube. 
Key results 
We found that post‐pyloric feeding appeared to reduce the rate of pneumonia and increase the amount of nutrition delivered to the patient. Its use did not result in fewer days that a person needed to be dependent on a breathing machine nor in fewer deaths. The target amount of feeding for a person fed with a post‐pyloric tube was reached without delay. Insertion of a post‐pyloric feeding tube appears safe and did not increase the likelihood of complications. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found evidence of moderate quality for the outcomes of rate of pneumonia, duration of dependency on a breathing machine and rate of death, mainly because identified studies were poorly conducted. With regard to the total quantity of nutrients that can be delivered to patients and complications related to insertion and maintenance of the tube, the quality of evidence was assessed as low. Evidence for the time required to reach the target amount of feeding was very low in that results were not similar across studies and study design issues hindered assessment. 
