Chlorpromazine versus metiapine for schizophrenia
The aim of this review was to find good quality evidence for comparing the efficacy of chlorpromazine versus metiapine for schizophrenia. 
Background 
Schizophrenia is a common disabling and enduring mental illness worldwide. People with schizophrenia often experience positive symptoms such as delusions and hallucinations, and negative symptoms such as apathy (lack of interest) and loss of emotion. 
Antipsychotic medicines have been successful for treating the positive symptoms but the negative symptoms remain difficult to treat and usually do not respond to routine antipsychotics. In addition, antipsychotic medicines often have unpleasant side effects. 
Chlorpromazine is a widely available and inexpensive antipsychotic introduced in the 1950s and considered the benchmark treatment for schizophrenia worldwide. Initial research indicated that chlorpromazine helped global improvement and was effective at preventing relapse compared with placebo (dummy treatment). However, some of chlorpromazine's side effects, particularly incidence of movement disorders, are reported as severe or debilitating. Metiapine is a relatively newer antipsychotic medicine, reporting to be effective at treating the symptoms of schizophrenia while causing fewer side effects. However, there is currently no good quality information concerning metiapine's effectiveness directly compared to chlorpromazine. 
Searching for evidence 
In November 2015, the Information Specialist of the Cochrane Schizophrenia group searched their specialised register for relevant clinical trials. The search identified four reports. We inspected these reports and found they referred to three trials, randomising people with schizophrenia to receive chlorpromazine or metiapine. 
Main results 
Our review now includes three studies with 161 participants. The studies revealed no real differences between chlorpromazine and metiapine for improvement in global state or incidence of parkinsonism (an umbrella term for symptoms such as tremor (shaking), bradykinesia (slow movement), rigidity (stiffness), and postural instability (difficulty in balancing). No data were reported for our other main areas of interest: mental state, service use, satisfaction with treatment, behaviour or cost of care. 
