Use of drains in adults after surgery for chronic subdural haematoma
What is a chronic subdural haematoma (CSDH)? 
A chronic subdural haematoma (CSDH) is the slow accumulation of blood between the brain and the membrane that surrounds it. CSDH is a common type of brain (intracranial) haematoma and occurs more frequently in older people. Up to 75% of CSDHs are caused by trauma to the head, though this trauma can be trivial, with no loss of consciousness, vomiting or seizures, or any other post‐trauma symptoms. Symptoms of CSDH depend upon the size of the haematoma and the parts of the brain on which it exerts pressure, but may include confusion or coma; memory problems; difficulty speaking, swallowing or walking; drowsiness; headaches; seizures; and weakness or numbness of limbs and face. 
How is CSDH treated? 
CSDH is treated most effectively through surgery with ‘burr‐hole evacuation’. In this procedure one or two holes (5 mm to 30 mm wide) are drilled through the skull over the haematoma. The accumulated blood is washed out through these holes. Sometimes, at the end of surgery, surgeons insert a soft silicone drain through one burr hole to continue to drain the space previously occupied by the blood (subdural drainage). These drains remove any fluid that accumulates into an external collection vessel, and stay in place for 24 to 48 hours after surgery before being removed. Alternatively, at the end of surgery, the wounds are closed surgically without insertion of external drains. 
Why might drains be important? 
Recurrence (i.e. formation of another CSDH in the same place) is a major problem with CSDH, and patients may need additional, repeated surgical procedures to remove them. Drains might reduce recurrence, but are not used routinely. The authors of this Cochrane Review wanted to discover whether the use of external drains after burr‐hole surgery for CSDH reduces the risk of recurrence of CSDH. 
Study characteristics and key results 
The review authors conducted extensive searches of the medical literature up to November 2014 for relevant randomized controlled trials (RCTs), which provide the most reliable evidence. They identified nine RCTs, involving 968 participants, that compared the use of external drains in some patients versus no drains in other patients after burr‐hole surgery for CSDH. The trials were conducted in India, Turkey, Iran, Germany, the UK and Japan. All participants were adults, mostly over 60 years of age. All the trials used very similar surgical procedures. Six trials followed participants for six months, the remaining trials followed them for three months, one month, or three weeks (one trial each). 
The authors were able to pool the results of the trials statistically, and this showed that use of drains does reduce the risk of recurrence of CSDH after burr‐hole surgery by about 50% compared to the risk in the group of patients who did not have drains (the control group). However, there were no clear differences between the drain and no‐drain treatment groups for postoperative complications (i.e. infection, seizures or sudden bleeding), death, or functional outcome (i.e. regaining abilities affected by the CSDH). 
