Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs for dysmenorrhoea
Review question 
Are nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) safe and effective for relief of period pain (dysmenorrhoea) and how do they compare with each other and with paracetamol? 
Background 
Nearly three‐quarters of women suffer from period pain or menstrual cramps (dysmenorrhoea). Research has shown that women with severe period pain have high levels of prostaglandins, hormones known to cause cramping abdominal pain. NSAIDs are drugs which act by blocking prostaglandin production. NSAIDs include the common painkillers aspirin, naproxen, ibuprofen and mefenamic acid. Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration reviewed the evidence about the safety and effectiveness of NSAIDs for period pain. The evidence is current to January 2015. 
Study characteristics 
We found 80 randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which included a total of 5820 women and compared 20 different types of NSAIDs with placebo (an inactive pill), paracetamol or each other. Most of the studies were commercially funded (59%), and a further 31% did not state their source of funding. 
Key results 
The review found that NSAIDs appear to be very effective in relieving period pain. The evidence suggests that if 18% of women taking placebo achieve moderate or excellent pain relief, between 45% and 53% taking NSAIDs will do so. NSAIDs appear to work better than paracetamol, but it is unclear whether any one NSAID is safer or more effective than others. 
NSAIDs commonly cause adverse effects (side effects), including indigestion, headaches and drowsiness. The evidence suggests that if 10% of women taking placebo experience side effects, between 11% and 14% of women taking NSAIDs will do so. 
Based on two studies that made head‐to‐head comparisons, there was no evidence that newer types of NSAID (known as COX‐2‐specific inhibitors) are more effective for the treatment of dysmenorrhoea than traditional NSAIDs (known as non‐selective inhibitors), nor that there is a difference between them with regard to adverse effects. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence as low for most comparisons, mainly due to poor reporting of study methods. 
