Methotrexate for keeping ulcerative colitis inactive   
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects and safety of methotrexate for maintaining remission in patients with ulcerative colitis, with the medical literature up to June 26, 2014. 
Background 
What is ulcerative colitis?
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease characterized by recurrent episodes of active disease, which commonly affect the rectum or colon or both. Patients with active disease may experience abdominal cramping, urgency to pass stools, and bloody diarrhea. When the symptoms stop, patients are considered to be in remission. 
What is methotrexate?
Methotrexate is a medication that reduces the body's immune responses and may reduce inflammation associated with ulcerative colitis. 
Study Characteristics 
The researchers identified three studies that included a total of 165 patients. One study (67 patients) compared oral methotrexate (12.5 mg/week) to placebo (e.g. a sugar pill or fake medicine), one study (26 patients) compared oral methotrexate (15 mg/week) and sulfasalazine (3 g/day) to sulfasalazine alone, and one study (72 patients in total; of which, 34 had ulcerative colitis ) compared oral methotrexate (15 mg/week) to 6‐mercaptopurine (1.5 mg/kg/day) or 5‐aminosalicylic acid (3 g/day). Two studies were judged to be of very low quality and the placebo‐controlled study was judged to be of high quality. 
Key Results 
There was no difference between the methotrexate and placebo treatment groups for the number of people who maintained remission at nine months. This suggests that, when used at this low dose (12.5 mg/week) methotrexate does not maintain remission in patients with inactive ulcerative colitis. However, this result is uncertain due to the small number of people who were assessed 
There was no difference between the combination therapy (methotrexate plus sulfasalazine) and sulfasalazine treatment groups for the number of people who maintained remission at 12 months. This result is uncertain due to poor study design and the low number of participants. 
The other, small study showed no differences between methotrexate and the other treatments (6‐mercaptopurine and 5‐aminosalicylic acid) in the proportion of participants who were able to maintain remission. These results are uncertain due to poor study design and the low number of participants. 
The side effects reported in the studies included leucopenia (a decrease in the number of white blood cells), migraine, rash, nausea and dyspepsia (indigestion), mild alopecia (hair loss), mild increase in levels of an enzyme found in the liver (aspartate aminotransferase), a collection of pus in the abdominal tissue (peritoneal abscess), abnormally low levels of the protein albumin in the blood (hypoalbuminemia), and pneumonia. 
At present, the results from medical trials do not support the use of low dose oral methotrexate (12.5 mg to 15 mg/week) for maintenance of remission in people with inactive ulcerative colitis. It is not known whether a higher dose of oral methotrexate, or giving methotrexate by a different route (e.g. by injection), would be effective for maintenance of remission in people with inactive ulcerative colitis. 
