Urinary biomarkers for the non‐invasive diagnosis of endometriosis
Review Question 
How accurate are urine test in detecting endometriosis? Can any urine test be accurate enough to replace or reduce the need for surgery in the diagnosis of endometriosis? 
Background 
Women with endometriosis have endometrial tissue (the tissue that lines the womb and is shed during menstruation) growing outside the womb within the pelvic cavity. This tissue responds to reproductive hormones causing painful periods, chronic lower abdominal pain and difficulty conceiving. Currently, the only reliable way of diagnosing endometriosis is to perform laparoscopic surgery and visualise the endometrial deposits inside the abdomen. Because surgery is risky and expensive, urine tests have been evaluated for their ability to detect endometriosis non‐invasively. An accurate urine test could lead to the diagnosis of endometriosis without the need for surgery; or it could reduce the need for diagnostic surgery, so only women who were most likely to have endometriosis would require it. Other non‐invasive ways of diagnosing endometriosis using blood, imaging, endometrial and combination tests are evaluated in separate Cochrane reviews from this series. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence included in this review is current to July 2015. We included eight studies involving 646 participants. All studies evaluated reproductive‐aged women who were undertaking diagnostic surgery to investigate symptoms of endometriosis or for other indications. Five studies evaluated the diagnostic accuracy of four urinary biomarkers, including four biomarkers that were expressed differently in women with and without endometriosis and one showing no difference between the two groups. Three other studies just identified three biomarkers that did not distinguish the two groups. 
Key results 
None of the assessed biomarkers, including cytokeratin 19 (CK 19), enolase 1 (NNE), vitamin D binding protein (VDBP) and urinary peptide profiling have been evaluated by enough studies to provide a meaningful assessment of test accuracy. None of the tests were accurate enough to replace diagnostic surgery. Several studies identified biomarkers that might be of value in diagnosing endometriosis, but there are too few reports to be sure of their diagnostic benefit. There is not enough evidence to recommend any urinary biomarker for use in clinical practice for the diagnosis of endometriosis. 
Quality of the evidence 
Generally, the reports were of low methodological quality and urine tests were only assessed in small individual studies. 
Future research 
More high quality research trials are needed to accurately assess the diagnostic potential of urinary biomarkers identified in small numbers of studies as having value in detecting endometriosis. 
