Interventions to help support caregivers of people with a brain or spinal cord tumour
The issue Family caregivers (e.g. spouses, family members or close friends) often provide physical and emotional support to peoples with a brain or spinal tumour (cancer). However, family caregiving is linked to considerable burden and distress. Therefore, it is important to meet the support needs of family caregivers so their emotional and physical health is maintained. This is expected to help the caregiver, the patient, and the family unit. 
The aim of the review To assess the effectiveness of supportive interventions at improving the well‐being of caregivers of people with a brain or spinal cord tumour. To assess the effects of supportive interventions for caregivers in improving the physical and emotional well‐being of patients with a brain or spinal cord tumour and to evaluate the health economic benefits of supportive interventions for caregivers. 
Study characteristics We included eight clinical studies. Four studies reported on interventions for patient–caregiver relationship and four studies were aimed specifically at improving caregiver well‐being. We found five ongoing studies. 
What were the main findings? The interventions tested were diverse in nature (e.g. cognitive behavioural therapy (talking therapy); psychoeducation (providing education and information to people seeking or receiving mental health services); coping skills training; self‐management; social network intervention); and delivery (e.g. face‐to‐face; web‐based), and all studies were relatively small (included between 13 and 56 neuro‐oncology caregivers). We found some evidence for positive effects of caregiver support on psychological distress, feelings of mastery (i.e. the feeling of being in control of the caregiving situation), and quality of life. 
Reliability of the evidence None of the studies reported effects on caregiver burden or quality of patient–caregiver relationship. None of the studies measured caregiver physical well‐being. Overall, the certainty of the evidence was low to very low, which means the true effect of caregiver support may be substantially different. 
Conclusions Our findings suggest it is not currently possible to draw definitive conclusions about the effectiveness of supportive interventions to improve neuro‐oncology caregiver well‐being. More high‐quality research is needed on support for family caregivers of patients diagnosed, and living, with a brain or spinal cord tumour. 
