Aspirin as an add‐on treatment to antipsychotics for people schizophrenia
Background 
Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness that affects around 21 million people worldwide. The symptoms of schizophrenia are typically classified into positive (e.g. hallucinations and delusional thoughts), negative (e.g. withdrawal and difficulty with social interaction) and cognitive (e.g. poor attention and restricted working memory) groups. These symptoms cause distortions in an individual's behaviour, thinking, emotions, sense of self and perception. Usually, antipsychotic medicines are used for treating the symptoms of schizophrenia. 
In recent years, inflammation (swelling) in a person's brain was linked to the symptoms that accompany schizophrenia. Aspirin is an affordable medicine which acts against inflammation and, therefore, it is thought it could help reduce the symptoms of schizophrenia. In this review, we looked at the effects of using aspirin as an add‐on treatment for people with schizophrenia. 
Study characteristics 
After searching Cochrane Schizophrenia's database in March 2018 and assessing the search results, we included one randomised controlled trial (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) from the Netherlands (70 participants) and one from Iran (60 participants). Both trials used aspirin as an add‐on treatment to standard antipsychotic medication and compared it with placebo (a dummy treatment), also as an add‐on to standard treatment. 
Key results 
Participants receiving aspirin had slightly better results for their mental state, which was measured with the Positive and Negative Symptom Scale (PANSS). For side effects related to stomach problems, there seemed to be no clear difference between the groups. The same applied to changes in hospital status and leaving the study early. However, all these results were based on analyses of very poor data and graded as very low‐quality evidence. No trial gave usable information on cognitive functioning or quality of life. 
