Ibuprofen for prevention of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm and/or low birth weight infants 
Review question. Is prophylactic ibuprofen compared to placebo/no intervention or indomethacin effective and safe for prevention of PDA in preterm infants? 
Background. Patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) is a common complication for very preterm (premature) or very small babies. PDA is an open vessel that channels blood from the lungs to the body. It should close after birth but sometimes remains open because of the baby's immature stage of development, and this can lead to life‐threatening complications. Indomethacin is successful in causing PDA closure but can cause serious adverse effects. Another option is the drug ibuprofen, which can be given to prevent PDA. 
Study characteristics. More than 1000 infants have been enrolled in trials of ibuprofen for prevention of a PDA; most studies were of small sample size. 
Key results. Prophylactic use of ibuprofen reduces the incidence of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA), the need for rescue treatment with other medications, or the need for surgical closure. Adverse effects in the ibuprofen group compared to the placebo or no interventions group included significantly increased risk of kidney complications. Risk of digestive tract bleeding was increased with ibuprofen. Risk of intraventricular haemorrhage, or bleeding into the brain (grade II to IV), of borderline significance was reduced, but researchers reported no statistically significant differences in mortality, chronic lung disease at 28 days' or 36 weeks' postmenstrual age, necrotising enterocolitis, or time to reach full feeds. In the control group, the PDA had closed spontaneously by day 3 or 4 in 58% of neonates. Preventative treatment therefore exposes a large proportion of infants unnecessarily to a drug that has important side effects without conferring any important short‐term benefit for outcomes. No long‐term follow‐up studies have been published. Current evidence does not support the use of ibuprofen for prevention of PDA. A new approach for management of PDA is an early targeted treatment based on echocardiographic (ECG), or image of the heart, criteria within the first 72 hours of life; this has high sensitivity for diagnosing a PDA that is unlikely to close spontaneously. Such trials are currently ongoing in many parts of the world. 
