Antithrombotic therapy to prevent cognitive decline in people with small vessel disease on neuroimaging but without dementia 
Background 
Disruption of blood flow to the brain can cause problems with memory and thinking. In the condition called 'cerebral small vessel disease', there is damage to the smallest blood vessels that run deep in the brain. This damage can cause stroke but can also be seen on brain scans in people with no obvious stroke symptoms. Cerebral small vessel disease usually gets worse over time, and in some people can cause a decline in memory and thinking. If this decline gets severe enough to affect a person's ability to manage their daily activities independently, then it is described as a type of vascular dementia. We know that blood‐thinning medications such as aspirin can prevent stroke. We wanted to know whether blood‐thinning medications might also prevent the decline in memory and thinking that is seen in cerebral small vessel disease. 
Review question  
Are blood‐thinning medications effective and safe in preventing the decline in memory and thinking in people with cerebral small vessel disease? 
What we did  
We searched the medical literature up to 21 July 2021 looking for studies that compared blood‐thinning medications given over at least 24 weeks to a comparator, which could have been either usual care or a placebo (dummy) tablet. To make the comparison fair, the studies had to assign people randomly to blood‐thinning medications or the comparator treatment. We were interested in the effects on participants' performance in memory and thinking tests, their ability to look after themselves, their risk of developing dementia and stroke, and side effects (especially from bleeding). Because the studies were so different from each other in terms of the type of participants, medications and assessments, we were unable to combine the results in analyses. Rather, we described the results of individual studies and assessed how confident we were in their findings. 
What we found  
We included three studies with 3384 participants. These studies were very different in terms of the participants (some with and some without stroke), the medications studied (single and combinations of different blood‐thinners), and how the effects on memory and thinking were measured (different tests used for assessment). No trial consistently demonstrated an improvement in performance in memory and thinking tests or in daily activities. No trial assessed for a new diagnosis of dementia. There was suggestion of blood‐thinning medications possibly causing an increased risk of bleeding, including gastrointestinal bleeding, but the numbers were too small to be certain that this was not just a chance difference. Overall, we considered that the quality of the evidence was poor for answering our review question regarding memory and thinking. Much of the information we needed was not reported. Two of the three studies were small, meaning that there was uncertainty around their results. In the only study that reported any benefit from blood‐thinning medication, different measures of memory and thinking did not all agree with each other. Lastly, where there was an improvement in memory and thinking, the size of this improvement may have been too small to make a noticeable difference to the individual in reality. 
Conclusions  
We found no convincing evidence that taking blood‐thinning medications is beneficial for memory and thinking in people with cerebral small vessel disease. However, the studies were very different from each other, and each one had limitations with regard to our review question. 
