Exercise training for bronchiectasis
Review question 
We wanted to know if exercise training improves exercise tolerance, quality of life, or symptoms, and if it reduces the number of future flare‐ups ('exacerbations'), for people with bronchiectasis compared to people who did not do exercise training. We looked at studies involving people with stable disease and patients in the period following a recent flare‐up. We aimed to include evidence related to both children and adults with bronchiectasis. 
Background 
People with bronchiectasis suffer from chronic cough and sputum production. They have increased risk of developing acute exacerbations that contribute to poor exercise tolerance and quality of life. When performed by people with other chronic lung conditions, exercise training improves exercise tolerance and reduces symptoms. However, little is understood about the effect of exercise training specifically in bronchiectasis. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current up to October 2020. We included six studies with a total of 275 participants; five studies were related to people with stable disease. No studies involving children were found. Exercise training was delivered in combination with other treatments such as airway clearance therapy, respiratory muscle training, and/or education. Participants were randomly assigned to exercise training or no exercise training. Exercise training was performed for at least six weeks, either in a group setting or at home. None of the included studies were funded by companies with commercial interests in study findings. 
Key results 
Following completion of exercise training, participants in a stable clinical state walked farther than those who did not do exercise training (an average of 87 metres farther), but our certainty of the evidence is low. Participants also reported improved quality of life (low‐certainty evidence) and less shortness of breath and fatigue. We found evidence of moderate certainty showing that exercise training might not specifically improve cough‐related symptoms, although the incidence of acute exacerbations was lower. Evidence was insufficient to show if the effects of exercise training would last beyond the period of exercise training, and no evidence was available to determine whether exercise training helps people become physically active. No benefits were observed for people who undertook exercise training soon after an acute flare‐up of their bronchiectasis. 
