What is the most effective way to listen intermittently to the baby’s heart in labour to improve the baby’s well‐being? 
What is the issue? 
One method of monitoring a baby's well‐being is to listen to the fetal heart rate and its pattern intermittently during labour (intermittent auscultation). There are several ways that the baby's heart rate can be measured. Some tools for listening to the baby's heart are made from wood, plastic or aluminium (Pinard, Laennec and fetoscope), and there are also electronic tools of varying sophistication, including hand‐held (battery or wind‐up operated) Doppler ultrasound (Doppler) and cardiotocogram (CTG), which is sometimes referred to as electronic fetal monitoring (EFM). 
Why is this important? 
The aim of monitoring is so that babies in difficulty can be accurately identified and interventions (such as caesarean section or instrumental vaginal birth) can be used to improve outcomes for the baby. 
What evidence did we find? 
We wanted to look at which types listening tools and timing for intermittent auscultation are most effective. We considered hand held listening devices, e.g. hand‐held Dopplers and various Pinard stethoscopes. We searched for studies (19 September 2016) and found three randomised controlled studies from Africa, involving 6241 women in established labour. Data from one of the studies were inconsistent and we were unable to include them in the results. This means 3242 women and their babies were included in the analyses. The results of the studies may have been biased as it was not possible to blind women and staff, and the overall the quality of the evidence was judged to be of moderate to very low quality. 
One study compared intermittent EFM with routine Pinard and showed no clear difference between groups in low baby Apgar scores at five minutes after the birth (very low‐quality evidence) or in perinatal mortality (low‐quality evidence) although neonatal seizures were reduced in the EFM group (low‐quality evidence). Other important infant outcomes (such as cerebral palsy) were not reported. Women who had intermittent EFM had higher rates of caesarean section for fetal distress (moderate‐quality evidence), but there was no clear difference between groups in instrumental vaginal births (low‐quality evidence). Other important outcomes for women were not reported (maternal mortality, analgesia in labour, mobility or restriction during labour, and postnatal depression). 
