Acetylcholinesterase inhibitor treatment for myasthenia gravis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of aceytlcholinesterase inhibitor drugs in people with myasthenia gravis. 
Background 
Myasthenia gravis is a rare autoimmune condition in which antibodies produced by the immune system attack the connection between nerves and muscles (the neuromuscular junction). Nerve impulses become blocked, causing muscles to become weak and easily tired. Symptoms fluctuate in severity. Acetylcholine is a chemical messenger that carries signals between nerve and muscle. An enzyme called acetylcholinesterase breaks down acetylcholine. Some drugs that are used to treat myasthenia gravis act on acetylcholinesterase to stop the breakdown of acetylcholine. These acetylcholinesterase inhibitors increase the amount of acetylcholine available and so help muscle activation and contraction. 
Study characteristics 
We only included evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) in the review. In RCTs, participants are assigned to groups by chance. This makes it more likely that any changes seen can be attributed to the treatments under study rather than to other possible causes. 
We found only one RCT for the treatment of myasthenia gravis. The participants received either the study drug or placebo for the first period of the trial. They then received the other treatment for the second period of the trial. For example, if a person had study drug in the first period they received placebo for the second period. If they had placebo for the first period, they received study drug for the second period. This type of study is called a 'cross‐over' trial. 
The trial included 10 people with myasthenia gravis. In three people the condition affected only their eyes. In seven people it affected the body more widely. The trial compared neostigmine (an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor) given via the nose, with placebo. Each treatment was given for two weeks. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
After the two‐week neostigmine treatment phase, symptoms of myasthenia gravis (measured as improvement in at least one muscle function) improved in nine of the 10 participants. No participant improved after the placebo phase. We were unable to assess how well the trial had been designed and run because of lack of information. Adverse events were minor. 
Several observational (non‐randomised) studies, case reports, case series and daily clinical experience favour the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors. This means that placebo‐controlled trials to confirm the effectiveness of the drug are probably not ethical and are unlikely to be performed. At present, the best dose and duration of treatment with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors is determined by the balance between improvement in symptoms and adverse effects. This varies over time and depends on other types of treatment that are given at the same time to switch off the underlying autoimmune response. 
