Enzyme replacement therapy with laronidase as a treatment for mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect and safety of enzyme replacement therapy with laronidase for people with mucopolysaccharidosis type I (MPS I) who do not undergo haemopoietic stem cell transplantation and in people with MPS I who receive enzyme replacement therapy prior to haemopoietic stem cell transplantation. This is an updated version of the original Cochrane Review published in 2013 and previously updated in 2015. 
Background 
Hurler syndrome or mucopolysaccharidosis type I is a rare genetic disorder that occurs when an enzyme that the body needs is missing or not working well enough. This leads to the build up of a number of complex molecules in certain cells and tissues. If untreated, this results in a classic picture of dwarfism, enlargement of body organs and a reduction in thinking ability. It occurs when a person inherits two copies of the defective gene (one from each parent) and is just as common in males as in females. It classically presents in infancy, however milder versions can present in adulthood. Enzyme replacement therapy with laronidase aims to replace the missing enzyme; however, given its high cost, it is essential to assess how effective and safe this treatment is. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 30 January 2019.
Study characteristics 
One 26‐week randomised controlled study (45 participants) was included in the review. Participants were aged between six and 43 years old. The study was carried out in several centres around the world. Participants either received an intravenous infusion of laronidase 0.58 mg/kg or a placebo ('dummy' infusion). 
Key results 
Current evidence is limited because we only found one randomised clinical trial in the medical literature, which did not include very many participants. Compared with placebo, enzyme replacement therapy improved lung function, the individuals’ ability to walk, reduced the excretion of abnormal glycosaminoglycans (a type of carbohydrate molecule) in the urine and also reduced the stopping of breathing related to sleep. Adverse reactions in relation to the infusions occurred in both groups but all were mild and none required medical intervention or for the infusions to be stopped. Enzyme replacement therapy can be used before and around the time of stem cell transplant, which is now the gold standard treatment for Hurler syndrome in individuals diagnosed before the age of two and a half years. More studies are needed to look at the long‐term effects of this treatment and also to see the effects on the quality of life of these individuals. We do not anticipate any further trials to be undertaken and therefore do not plan to update this review. 
