Ways to help pregnant women avoid preterm birth
What is the issue? 
Preterm birth, or being born before 37 weeks of pregnancy, is a major reason why newborns die and may also mean long‐term disability for surviving infants. There are many ways healthcare providers try to prevent women from having their babies too early. Pregnant women may be encouraged to take vitamins, reduce smoking, take medicines for infections or attend regular healthcare visits. Our overview looks at different ways (or interventions) to prevent preterm birth. We searched for relevant papers in the Cochrane Library on 2 November, 2017. 
Why is this important? 
Preterm birth is devastating and costly for women, families and health systems. We aimed to summarise relevant information for pregnant women, healthcare workers and researchers. 
What evidence did we find? 
We included 83 systematic reviews with evidence about whether or not the intervention was able to reduce pregnant women's chance of having a preterm birth or a baby death. Seventy of these reviews had information about preterm birth. We categorised the evidence we found as: clear benefit or harm; no effect; possible benefit or harm; or unknown effect. 
Outcome: preterm birth 
Clear benefit
We were confident that the following interventions were able to help specific populations of pregnant women avoid giving birth early: midwife‐led continuity models of care versus other models of care for all women; screening for lower genital tract infections; and zinc supplementation for pregnant women without systemic illness. Cervical stitch (cerclage) was of benefit only for women at high risk of preterm birth and with singleton pregnancy. 
Clear harm
We found no treatment that increased women’s chance of giving birth preterm.
Possible benefit
The following interventions may have helped some groups of pregnant women avoid preterm birth, but we have less confidence in these results: group antenatal care for all pregnant women; antibiotics for pregnant women with asymptomatic bacteriuria; pharmacological interventions for smoking cessation; and vitamin D supplements alone for women without health problems. 
Possible harm
We found two interventions that may have made things worse for some pregnant women: intramuscular progesterone for women at high risk of preterm birth with multiple pregnancy; and taking vitamin D supplements, calcium and other minerals for pregnant women without health problems. 
Outcome: perinatal death 
Clear benefit
We were confident in evidence for midwife‐led continuity models of care for all pregnant women; and for fetal and umbilical Doppler for high‐risk pregnant women; these interventions appeared to reduce women's chance of experiencing baby death. 
Clear harm
We found no intervention that increased women’s risk of baby death.
Possible benefit
We found a possible benefit with cervical stitch (cerclage) for women with singleton pregnancy and high risk of preterm birth. 
Possible harm
One review reported possible harm associated with having fewer antenatal visits, even for pregnant women at low risk of pregnancy problems. The pregnant women in this review already received limited antenatal care. 
