Radiofrequency ablation for the treatment of liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma)
Background 
Liver cancer (hepatocellular carcinoma) is the fifth most common cancer worldwide. In the majority of patients, hepatocellular carcinoma is diagnosed at advanced stages of the disease and is mostly accompanied by liver cirrhosis. To date, there is no medical cure for patients with hepatocellular carcinoma, and treatment aims to slow tumour growth. In high‐income countries, about 30% of patients present with the more favourable early hepatocellular carcinoma. For these patients, percutaneous ablation techniques (destruction of the cancer cells by heat, cold, or chemical substances such as ethanol), surgical resection (removal of part of the liver), and liver transplantation (which is limited by organ donor shortage) are currently considered potentially curative treatments. Radiofrequency (thermal) ablation (RFA) is the most elaborated of the percutaneous interventions, so far. Heat caused by alternating electric current is administered by probes that are inserted through the skin (percutaneously). 
Study characteristics 
The review authors searched the medical literature in order to clarify the role of RFA for the treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma and to compare its benefits and harms with no treatment, placebo (a pretend treatment), or other treatments (such as hepatic resection, percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI), percutaneous acetic acid injection (PAI), laser or microwave ablation, and liver transplantation). We looked for randomised clinical trials (where people were allocated at random to one of two or more treatments groups) of people with hepatocellular carcinoma who were able to receive RFA. Evidence is current to September 2013. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
We found no trials comparing RFA versus no intervention, placebo, chemotherapy, or liver transplantation. 
The review authors found moderate‐quality evidence from two trials with low risk of bias (where there was a low risk of a flaw in study design, method of collecting or interpreting results) randomising 578 patients suggesting that hepatic resection yielded better results regarding overall survival (the length of time that the patient remains alive), event‐free survival (time that the person remains free of cancer or a certain symptom relating to cancer), and progression (time that the patient lives with cancer without it getting worse) compared with RFA. However, as resection is a more invasive procedure, resection has an eight times higher risk of major complications compared with RFA. Resected patients stayed twice as long in the hospital as the RFA patients. Moderate‐quality evidence suggested that RFA prolongs survival and decreases recurrences (where the cancer returns) compared with PEI or PAI. This conclusion was based on data from six randomised clinical trials with 1088 participants. Some patients developed side effects such as fever, rash, and pain. These occurred at the same frequency in both treatment groups. We calculated the number of patients that would be required to judge a relative risk reduction (relative risk is a comparison of the risk of an event happening for one treatment group compared with another treatment group) for survival of 20%. The review authors found that for both comparisons, that is RFA versus PEI or PAI, and RFA versus resection, the number of patients in the included trials was too low to reach valid conclusions. No firm conclusion can be drawn from the comparison of RFA against other interventional techniques or combination approaches. The information provided by the single trials was limited. More randomised clinical trials with low risks of bias (that is low risks of systematic errors, leading to overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms) and low risk of play of chance (that is random errors, leading to overestimation or underestimation of benefits and harms) are required. 
