The use of probiotics to prevent Hirschsprung‐associated enterocolitis
Review question 
What are the benefits and risks of using probiotics to prevent Hirschsprung‐associated enterocolitis (HAEC)? 
Key messages 
We compared randomised controlled trials (RCTS) of probiotics versus placebo, or any other non‐probiotic intervention, to prevent Hirschsprung‐associated enterocolitis (HAEC). There is currently not enough evidence to assess the efficacy or safety of probiotics for the prevention of HAEC. 
What is HAEC? 
HAEC is a rare condition. It can cause inflammation of the bowels and lead to symptoms, such as abdominal pain and diarrhoea, which can disturb the balance of electrolytes in the body. 
What are probiotics? 
Probiotics are live bacteria that may restore the natural balance of bacteria, and possibly reduce inflammation of the gut. However, it is not yet clear whether taking probiotics is helpful in preventing HAEC, and if they are safe. We analysed the scientific evidence to answer this question. 
What did we want to find out？ 
We wanted to find out if probiotics could prevent HAEC, and if probiotics were associated with any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that examined probiotics compared with placebo or any other intervention in children with Hirschsprung's disease (HD). We compared and summarised the results of the studies, and rated our confidence in the evidence. 
What did we find? 
We included two RCTs, with a total of 122 people with HAEC. One multicentre trial was conducted in the USA and Egypt, and one in China. Each of these studies was carried out in a hospital setting. A total of 60 participants were treated with probiotics, and 60 were treated with a placebo (a fake medication). Time of enrolment ranged from 1 to 12 months. One study was funded by companies that supplied the probiotics; the other by government agencies. Taken together, the results suggest that there is not enough evidence to show that probiotics can prevent HAEC. 
