Anabolic steroids for improving recovery after hip fracture in older people
Why anabolic steroids might help after a hip fracture 
Hip fracture occurs mainly in older people, many of whom are frail. After surgery for their hip fracture, most patients suffer a loss of muscle mass and strength. Despite rehabilitation, most patients experience a long‐term decline in mobility and function. Anabolic steroids, the synthetic derivatives of the male hormone testosterone, have been used in combination with exercise to improve muscle mass and strength in athletes. This review considers the evidence for the use of anabolic steroids aimed at improving outcomes after hip fracture in older people. 
Description of the studies included in the review 
We searched the medical literature until September 2013 and found three relevant studies that included a total of 154 women over the age of 65 years who had had hip surgery. Two studies were conducted in Sweden and one in Canada. The studies tested two comparisons. One study had three groups and contributed data to both comparisons. 
Quality of the evidence  There were only three studies available and all three were small and at high risk of bias. We therefore judged the quality of the evidence to be very low, which means that we are uncertain how reliable the evidence is. 
Summary of the evidence 
Two very different studies compared anabolic steroid versus control (no anabolic steroid or placebo). One study conducted in the hospital ward compared weekly anabolic steroid injections versus placebo injections in 29 "frail elderly females". This study found no evidence that anabolic steroid resulted in better function, as measured by numbers discharged to a higher level of care or dead, or the time to mobilisation. The second study compared steroid injections given every three weeks for six months plus daily protein supplementation versus daily protein supplementation alone in 40 "lean elderly women". This study provided some evidence that anabolic steroids may result in better function, but they may also make no difference or result in worse function. Neither study found a difference in the incidence of individual adverse events in the two groups. 
Two studies compared anabolic steroids combined with another nutritional intervention ('steroid plus') versus control (no 'steroid plus'). One study compared anabolic steroid injections every three weeks for 12 months in combination with daily supplement of vitamin D and calcium versus calcium only in 63 women who were living independently at home. The other study compared anabolic steroid injections every three weeks for six months and daily protein supplementation versus control in 40 "lean elderly women". Both studies found some evidence of better function in the steroid plus group. Pooled mortality data from the two studies showed no difference between the two groups at one year. Similarly, there was no evidence of between‐group differences in individual adverse events. Three participants in the steroid group of one study reported side effects of hoarseness and increased facial hair. The other study reported better quality of life in the steroid plus group. None of the studies reported on patient acceptability of the intervention. 
Conclusions 
The quality of the evidence was very low, meaning that we are very uncertain about the direction and size of effect. Thus we are unable to say if anabolic steroids, either separately or in combination with nutritional supplements, improve recovery after hip fracture surgery in older people. Given that the results available point to the potential for more promising outcomes with a combined anabolic steroid and nutritional supplement intervention, we suggest that future research should focus on evaluating this combination. 
