Does subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery (leg‐vein surgery) help heal venous leg ulcers? 
What is the aim of this review? 
Subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery (SEPS) involves cutting and closing off damaged perforator veins (blood vessels that link superficial and deep veins) in the leg. The aim of this review was to find out whether SEPS can help heal venous leg ulcers (slow‐healing skin wounds caused by poor blood flow through leg veins). We collected and analysed all relevant randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method, which provides the most reliable evidence) to answer this question and identified four studies for inclusion. 
Key messages 
It is uncertain whether SEPS is beneficial or safe as a treatment for venous leg ulcers, as the certainty of the evidence collected is low or very low, and the included studies involved small numbers of participants. 
What was studied in the review? 
Venous leg ulcers are a common and costly health problem. These chronic wounds often take months to heal and have a high chance of recurrence after healing. Venous leg ulcers can be caused by veins that do not work properly, which results in blood flowing in the wrong direction between the superficial and deep veins in the leg. Blood that does not flow correctly causes increased pressure and inflammation, leading to skin breakdown and ulceration in the lower leg. Subfascial endoscopic perforator surgery can prevent blood from flowing in the wrong direction by cutting and tying veins that link the superficial and deep veins. It is unclear if SEPS is more effective than other treatment options such as compression bandages or stockings, which are the standard treatment for venous leg ulcers. We therefore investigated if this surgical technique can help venous leg ulcers heal more quickly. We also considered whether the surgery had any side effects, and if it impacted study participants' quality of life, experience of pain, or time spent in hospital and nursing care. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included four studies in the review which dated from 1997 to 2011 and compared SEPS with other treatments for venous leg ulcers. The studies involved a total of 322 participants, ranging in age from 30 to 82 years, with an equal number of males and females. 
Two studies compared SEPS and compression stockings with compression alone; one study compared SEPS against the Linton surgical procedure (a type of open surgery on leg veins); and one study compared SEPS in addition to saphenous vein surgery (surgery on the largest superficial vein in the leg) versus saphenous vein surgery alone. 
We concluded that the evidence is insufficient to determine if SEPS results in better, worse, or the same outcomes as compression treatment in terms of ulcer healing. There may be a benefit of SEPS in terms of proportion of ulcers healed at 24 months, however evidence for this is of low certainty. It is also unclear due to the very low certainty of the evidence if SEPS as an addition to saphenous surgery, or as compared to the Linton approach, makes any difference in venous leg ulcer healing. No studies reported on quality of life, serious side effects or home nursing care requirements for study participants. 
All four studies were small in size, with the largest including 200 participants, and the other three studies reporting on 75 participants or fewer. This factor, along with poor study design methods, means that the evidence about the role of SEPS in treating venous leg ulcers is of low or very low certainty. It therefore remains unclear whether SEPS is beneficial or safe in venous leg ulcer treatment, and further high‐quality studies with larger sample sizes are likely to change the conclusions of this review. 
