Anti‐TNF agents for paediatric psoriasis
Background 
Psoriasis is a long‐term skin disease that may develop at any age. Estimates for the United States and Europe suggest that psoriasis accounts for 4% of skin diseases in children. In most cases, the condition is mild and can be treated with creams. However, a small percentage of children have moderate to severe disease that requires drugs, such as ciclosporin or methotrexate, and some will require injections with newer biological agents, such as anti‐TNF (tumour necrosis factor) drugs. Anti‐TNF drugs (among them etanercept, infliximab, and adalimumab) are designed to reduce inflammation in the body caused by tumour necrosis factor. 
Review question 
Are anti‐TNF drugs such as etanercept, infliximab, and adalimumab safe and effective for treating moderate to severe psoriasis in children under 18 years of age? 
Study characteristics 
We searched for all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that assessed the efficacy and safety of anti‐TNF agents for the treatment of long‐term plaque psoriasis in individuals younger than 18 years of age. We searched databases up to July 2015. Only one study (with three phases: a 12‐week randomised, double‐blind, placebo‐controlled phase; a 24‐week open‐label phase, and a 12‐week phase of a randomised, double‐blind, withdrawal–retreatment design) investigating one anti‐TNF agent (etanercept) in 211 participants met the inclusion criteria. 
Key results 
Evidence from this single included study suggests that by week 12 etanercept reduced the extent of the psoriasis in children when compared with placebo. Although a few adverse events were reported, they were resolved without subsequent problems. We did not find any evidence on long‐term side effects of this drug from this included study. 
Quality of the evidence 
Although this one RCT provided high‐quality evidence for the Physician's Global Assessment and all Psoriasis Area and Severity Index scores (75, 90, and 50) and moderate‐quality evidence for quality‐of‐life outcomes, we found no further randomised studies either evaluating etanercept or comparing other anti‐TNF agents, highlighting the need for further well‐designed randomised studies involving the use of biological therapies in children and young people with psoriasis. Several studies are ongoing that have not yet been completed or published. We plan to include the results of these in future updates of this review. 
