Surgery for epilepsy
Background 
Focal epilepsies are caused by abnormal electrical discharges in specific (localised) parts of the brain. In up to 30% of people, these seizures are not controlled by medication. If the site of origin of these signals (the epileptogenic zone) can be located from the description of the seizures, or via findings of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) (a medical imaging scan that uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves to produce detailed images of the inside of the body) and electroencephalography (EEG) (recording of electrical activity along the scalp), the person should be offered the chance of having the epileptogenic zone removed. We studied characteristics of people undergoing surgery and details of surgery type that might be linked to the best chance of surgical cure of epileptic seizures. 
Study characteristics 
We examined evidence from 182 included studies reporting the experience of 16,855 people of all ages. The evidence is current to March 2019. 
Key results 
In total, 10,696 people (64% of the total who had surgery in all studies) experienced a good outcome from surgery, defined as freedom from epileptic seizures. 
Two randomised controlled trials (RCTs) established the superiority of surgery over use of different antiepileptic medications. Seven RCTs compared different types of surgery. Three trials found no difference in seizure outcomes; one removed 2.5cm or 3.5cm of the anterior temporal lobe (ATL ‐ the part of the brain in which the epileptogenic zone is often located) or surgically removed the ATL with or without an additional procedure to sever the nerves that connect the two halves of the brain. The third trial found that completely removing the hippocampus (the part of the brain in which the epileptogenic zone is often located) was superior to removing only part of the hippocampus. A fourth trial showed that removing the ATL was superior to a surgical procedure using radiation therapy, Two trials showed no difference between different types of surgical procedures to remove the ATL or hippocampus and the final trial showed that for Lennox‐Gastaut syndrome, results show no significant differences in seizure outcomes between those undergoing resection of the epileptogenic zone and those with resection plus corpus callosotomy. 
We identified some factors associated with a better outcome from surgery, including a well‐defined abnormality on the MRI scan corresponding with what was expected from the description of seizures and EEG findings, complete surgical removal of the lesion, and a history of febrile seizures (seizures associated with fever in a young child) often associated with mesial temporal sclerosis (scarring in the inner portions of the temporal lobe of the brain). 
More spread out brain abnormalities that might be associated with brain injury or an abnormality of brain development were not associated with a good outcome. The presence of such abnormalities is often associated with a need to embark on more detailed pre‐operative investigations including intracranial (inside the skull) EEG monitoring. We would have liked to examine the collective effect of these factors (i.e. the effect on outcome if a person has a history of febrile seizures, brain injury, and an MRI abnormality altogether); however, studies did not report enough information to allow this. 
Quality of the evidence 
Most studies included in this review were of poor quality and had a retrospective design (whereby individuals are recruited after the result of surgery has been recorded, which looks back for the existence of factors related to the results of surgery). Researchers used variable surgical approaches for different sites of the brain, different processes to select candidates for surgery, and different definitions of freedom from seizures after surgery, and they measured these outcomes at varying points. Fewer than half the studies gave details of complications and deaths associated with surgery. 
Conclusions 
We encourage researchers that future studies should have a prospective design (a design whereby individuals are recruited before surgery has taken place, which identifies factors of interest before surgery and follows up with individuals after surgery to record outcomes). Studies should use appropriate statistical methods to examine the collective effect of factors that may predict the outcome of surgery. Study authors should clearly record death during or after surgery, as well as complications and side effects from surgery. 
