Techniques for preventing a decrease in blood pressure during spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section 
What is the issue? 
Spinal anaesthesia is a commonly used technique for caesarean birth as the mother is able to be awake for the birth and usually remains comfortable afterwards. In addition, the technique avoids the risks of general anaesthesia. The most common adverse effect of spinal anaesthesia is a fall in blood pressure (hypotension). 
This study reviews the evidence for preventing hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for caesarean birth. 
Why is this important? 
Hypotension following spinal anaesthesia for caesarean birth occurs frequently. When it occurs, the mother may feel faint or nauseous and may vomit. If her blood pressure falls excessively, the mother runs serious risks (such as loss of consciousness), as does the baby (such as lack of oxygen and brain damage). Hypotension may be prevented by administering intravenous fluids, giving medications (such as ephedrine, phenylephrine, and ondansetron), by leg compression, or by the mother either lying down or walking around before the spinal anaesthesia. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the evidence in August 2016 and found a total of 125 studies involving 9469 women. Included studies investigated 49 different comparisons, which we split into three groups: intravenous fluid therapy, medications, and physical methods. Here we describe the results of the six main comparisons (crystalloid versus control; colloid versus crystalloid; ephedrine versus phenylephrine; ondansetron versus control; leg compression versus control; walking versus lying). 
Fluid therapy (crystalloid versus control; colloid versus crystalloid) 
It is uncertain whether crystalloids prevent hypotension because the quality of the evidence is very low. Giving colloids instead of crystalloids may mean that fewer women have low blood pressure after having spinal anaesthesia. 
We cannot be certain due to the very low quality evidence whether crystalloid or colloid are better at preventing maternal low heart rate (bradycardia), high blood pressure, nausea and vomiting, neonatal acidosis, or low Apgar scores. Whether women received crystalloids or no fluids did not affect the number of women who experienced nausea and/or vomiting. 
Medications (ephedrine versus phenylephrine; ondansetron versus control) 
Lower rates of bradycardia occurred in women receiving ephedrine versus phenylephrine, and with ondansetron versus no ondansetron, but the evidence is low quality. Ondansetron may prevent low blood pressure and nausea/vomiting but made little or no difference to neonatal acidosis or Apgar scores. There was little difference between ephedrine and phenylephrine for low or high blood pressure, nausea and vomiting, neonatal acidosis, or Apgar scores. We cannot be certain of these results due to the low or very low quality of the evidence. 
Physical methods (leg compression versus control; walking versus lying) 
It is uncertain whether leg compression reduces the number of women with hypotension compared with no leg compression because the quality of evidence is very low. Similarly, we cannot be certain whether leg compression made any difference to women experiencing bradycardia or nausea and vomiting, or to babies' Apgar scores. It is also uncertain whether walking or lying down before the spinal anaesthesia reduces low blood pressure. 
What does this mean? 
We found that no single method completely prevents hypotension in women receiving spinal anaesthesia during caesarean birth. Administering intravenous fluids or certain medications, and compressing the legs with bandages, stockings, or inflatable devices may reduce the incidence of hypotension. However, we found the quality of the evidence to be low or very low, so there is still a need for large, high‐quality studies using these clinically relevant interventions, either alone or in combination. 
Future research in this setting could focus on combinations of these effective strategies or on new innovative strategies. 
