Effectiveness of dental auxiliaries performing clinical tasks traditionally provided by a dentist 
Background 
Some tasks undertaken by dentists could be delegated to appropriately trained dental auxiliaries, which might liberate time for dentists to undertake more complex procedures and could improve access to dental care and reduce costs. However, before such an approach can be advocated, it is important to know the relative effectiveness of dental auxiliaries and dentists in providing these tasks. 
Review question 
This review aims to assess the relative effectiveness, costs and cost effectiveness, and safety of dental auxiliaries in providing care traditionally provided by dentists. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up to November 2013 and found five studies (involving 13 dental auxiliaries, six dentists, and more than 1156 participants) evaluating the effectiveness of dental auxiliaries compared with dentists in providing care traditionally delivered by dentists for inclusion in this review. These studies evaluated only two clinical tasks/techniques: placement of preventive resin sealants, which are designed to prevent dental decay in the pits and grooves of back teeth; and the atraumatic restorative technique (ART), which is a method of filling teeth that does not require motorised instruments (e.g. dental drills). Two studies were conducted in the US, and one in each of Canada, Gambia and Singapore. 
Key results 
Of the four studies comparing dental auxiliaries and dentists in placing preventive sealants, three found no differences between the two groups in the proportion of sealants that were still intact over different time periods (six to 24 months). One study found that fewer sealants placed by a dental auxiliary were still intact after 48 months than those placed by a dentist. The same study reported that dental decay was more likely to develop in teeth that had been sealed by the dental auxiliary than the dentist, whereas another study reported no evidence of a difference between the groups. The one study comparing the effectiveness of dental auxiliaries and dentists in performing ART reported no evidence of a difference in the proportion that needed replacing or that had developed new decay after 12 months. None of the studies reported adverse events. In addition, none of the studies compared the costs and cost effectiveness of dental auxiliaries and dentists, or considered any impacts on access to care. 
Quality of the evidence 
Too few studies were included in this review to draw any firm conclusions about the relative effectiveness of dental auxiliaries and dentists. The included studies, of which four were more than 20 years old, were of low quality, had few participants and only considered two clinical tasks. This review highlights the lack of high‐quality studies comparing the effectiveness, and cost‐effectiveness, of dental auxiliaries and dentists in performing dental care traditionally delivered by dentists. 
