Peripheral nerve blocks compared to other types of pain relief for people having total hip joint replacement surgery 
Background 
Controlling pain after hip replacement surgery improves comfort and improves participation in rehabilitation. These aspects help people to return home sooner and limit treatment costs. 
Peripheral nerve block is a treatment for pain control that involves injecting local anaesthetic around nerves to block or stop the sensation of pain reaching the brain. A neuraxial block is an injection of local anaesthetic in the spine through a needle or catheter (very thin, small tube) to block pain transmission from the spine to the brain. 
We evaluated the benefits and harms of nerve blocks compared to no nerve blocks or other forms of pain relief to following hip replacement in adults. 
Search dates 
We searched to December 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included 51 studies (2793 participants) in the review and analysed results from 45 studies (2491 participants). There are 11 ongoing studies and three awaiting classification. 
Study funding sources 
Funding sources included governments, charities, institutions, industry (in part, n = 1); over half were unspecified (n = 29). 
Key results 
Compared to systemic analgesia, we found that peripheral nerve blocks reduce pain, reduce the risk of becoming confused (e.g. not knowing the date, time, or location) (for every 12 people treated one fewer will become confused), reduce itching (for every 4 people treated one fewer will develop itch), hospital length of stay (equivalent to 0.75 day) and increase patient satisfaction for pain treatment (equivalent to 2.4 points more on a 0 to 10 scale). We did not find a difference in time to first walk after surgery. 
Two people had complications: one local haematoma and one delayed persistent muscle weakness. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of evidence for peripheral nerve blocks compared with systemic pain relievers was rated as moderate to very low. 
The quality of evidence for peripheral nerve blocks compared to neuraxial blocks was rated as high for patient satisfaction, moderate for reducing itch, similar pain relief, low for similar block‐related complications, hospital length of stay and time to first walk. Evidence for confusion was assessed as very low quality. 
