Different doses of platelet transfusion for preventing bleeding in people with low platelet counts due to treatment‐induced bone marrow failure 
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence about whether low‐dose platelet transfusions (platelet transfusions containing a lower number of platelets (1.1 x 1011/m2 ± 25%)) given to prevent bleeding in people with low platelet counts were as effective and safe as standard‐dose (2.2 x 1011/m2 ± 25%) or high‐dose platelet transfusions (platelet transfusions containing a larger number of platelets (4.4 x 1011/m2 ± 25%)) given regularly to prevent bleeding (prophylactically). Our target population was children and adults with blood cancers who were receiving intensive chemotherapy treatments or stem cell transplantation. 
Background 
Children and adults with blood cancers may have low platelet counts because of their underlying cancer. Blood cancers may be treated with chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation, and these treatments can also cause low platelet counts. 
Platelet transfusions are used to prevent or treat bleeding in people with low platelet counts. Platelet transfusions are given to prevent bleeding when the platelet count falls below a prespecified threshold platelet count (for example 10 x 109/L). Platelet transfusions are given to treat bleeding when the patient has bleeding (such as a prolonged nosebleed or multiple bruises). 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to July 2015. In this update, we identified seven randomised controlled trials that compared different doses of prophylactic platelet transfusions given to prevent bleeding in people with blood cancers. We reviewed seven randomised controlled trials with a total of 1814 participants. These trials were conducted between 1973 and 2015. Six of these trials were conducted during one course of treatment (chemotherapy or a stem cell transplant); the seventh trial was conducted over a longer time period involving several courses of chemotherapy and could not be included in any of the analyses. One trial contained only children, two trials contained adults and children, and four trials contained only adults. 
Five of the seven studies reported funding sources. None of the studies that reported funding sources were industry sponsored. 
Key results 
Overall, platelet transfusions containing smaller number of platelets appeared to have similar effects to platelet transfusions containing larger numbers of platelets. There was no difference in the number of participants who bled, the frequency of bleeding, or the severity of bleeding between participants receiving a low, standard, or high number of platelets within each platelet transfusion. This was unaffected by the participant's age (children or adults), underlying treatment, or diagnosis. 
There was a clear increase in the number of platelet transfusion episodes in the low‐dose group, compared to the standard‐dose and high‐dose groups. A high‐dose transfusion strategy did not lead to a decrease in the number of transfusion episodes in the largest study. 
