Chemotherapy given before surgery, compared with surgery alone for women with cervical cancer 
Around the world, cervical cancer is the second most common cancer in women. In some countries, screening (with smear tests) has reduced the number of women with cervical cancer, but large numbers of women still die from the disease every year. 
Where the cancer has not spread outside the cervix (early‐stage disease) women may have an operation to remove it by taking out the cervix, womb, the fallopian tubes, and maybe other nearby tissues (radical surgery). Or they might have treatment with x‐rays (radical radiotherapy). Both of these treatments have been shown to be as good as each other. If the tumour is bigger, or has spread to tissues around the cervix (locally‐advanced disease) women may also receive chemotherapy (drug treatment) at the same time as radiotherapy (chemoradiation). 
Giving chemotherapy before radical surgery (neoadjuvant chemotherapy) might shrink the tumour. This may make surgery easier and help to remove any tiny tumours that cannot be easily seen. A previous review found that women getting chemotherapy before radical surgery lived longer than women who got radical radiotherapy. However, we do not know whether giving chemotherapy before radical surgery is better than radical surgery on its own. 
This review found six trials that included 1078 women. Using information from the trials, we found that giving chemotherapy before surgery helped women to live longer and also to live longer without cancer. It was not clear whether chemotherapy made radical surgery easier or helped to stop the cancer from coming back. The type of drugs used, and how they were given, did not affect the results. Also, results were similar in women with both early stage and more advanced stages of disease. 
In one trial, all of the women also had radiotherapy after surgery (post‐operative radiotherapy). In the other trials, up to two thirds of women got this post‐operative radiotherapy. We are not sure how this extra treatment affects the results. It may also give women more side‐effects. 
Although neoadjuvant chemotherapy seems to help women with cervical cancer live for longer and also to live for longer without disease, the results are based on only a small number of trials. If new drugs or new combinations of drugs show promising results, it may be worth doing more trials with these new treatments of neoadjuvant chemotherapy before surgery. 
