Mediterranean‐style diet for the prevention of cardiovascular disease
It is well established that diet plays a major role in cardiovascular disease risk. The traditional Mediterranean dietary pattern is of particular interest because of observations from the 1960s that populations in countries of the Mediterranean region, such as Greece and Italy, had lower mortality from cardiovascular disease compared with northern European populations or the US, probably as a result of different eating habits. 
This review assessed the effects of providing dietary advice to follow a Mediterranean‐style diet or provision of foods relevant to the diet (or both) to healthy adults, people at increased risk of cardiovascular disease and those with cardiovascular disease, in order to prevent the occurrence or recurrence of cardiovascular disease and reduce the risk factors associated with it. Definitions of a Mediterranean dietary pattern vary and we included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of interventions that reported both of the following key components: a high monounsaturated/saturated fat ratio (use of olive oil as main cooking ingredient and/or consumption of other traditional foods high in monounsaturated fats such as tree nuts) and a high intake of plant‐based foods, including fruits, vegetables and legumes. Additional components included: low to moderate red wine consumption; high consumption of whole grains and cereals; low consumption of meat and meat products and increased consumption of fish; moderate consumption of milk and dairy products. The control group was no intervention or minimal intervention, usual care or another dietary intervention. We found 30 RCTs (49 papers) that met these criteria. The trials varied enormously in the participants recruited and the different dietary interventions. We grouped studies to look at the effects of following a Mediterranean‐style diet into the following four categories to help us with our interpretation of the results: 
1. Mediterranean dietary intervention compared to no intervention or a minimal intervention to prevent the onset of cardiovascular disease; 
2. Mediterranean dietary intervention compared to another dietary intervention to prevent the onset of cardiovascular disease; 
3. Mediterranean dietary intervention compared to usual care for people with cardiovascular disease to prevent recurrence; 
4. Mediterranean dietary intervention compared to another dietary intervention for people with cardiovascular disease to prevent recurrence. 
Few trials reported on the occurrence of cardiovascular disease either in those with or without disease to begin with. A large trial in people at high risk of cardiovascular disease found a benefit of the Mediterranean dietary intervention compared to a low‐fat diet on the risk of having a stroke, but not on heart attacks, death from heart disease or other causes. A further study in people with cardiovascular disease found a benefit of the Mediterranean dietary intervention on death from heart disease or other causes. We rated these two studies as providing low to moderate‐quality evidence. We had to exclude two studies from our analyses as concerns had been raised that the data were unreliable. The other trials in the review measured risk factors for cardiovascular disease. There was low to moderate‐quality evidence for some beneficial changes in lipid levels and blood pressure with a Mediterranean‐style diet in people without disease. In people with cardiovascular disease already there was very low to low‐quality evidence that there was no effect of a Mediterranean‐style diet on risk factors. Two trials reported side effects of the diet that were either absent or minor. 
