Interventions for dialysis patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection
Hepatitis C is a disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV) which spreads from person to person through blood contact which is a result of sharing drug needles, and other items contaminated with blood. This virus remains in the body for a long time and can affect the liver causing its slow destruction or cirrhosis and liver cancer. Infected people may have weakness, nausea, jaundice and lose weight. On blood tests they may have increase in liver enzymes and bilirubin. 
HCV is present worldwide and varies among countries with a total of 170 million people infected and constitutes 40% of patients of chronic liver disease. People who are on haemodialysis for long periods have higher chance of getting this infection. It has to be treated before the kidney patient undergoes kidney transplant because some medicines used for its treatment can cause rejection of the transplanted kidney. There are three main treatments for this infection. Two are injections of standard interferon or pegylated interferon given under the skin three times a week or once a week respectively. Treatment needs to be continued for at least 24 to 48 weeks. Along with either of these injections, tablets of ribavirin can be given to improve the results. However ribavirin can accumulate in kidney patients and cause destruction of red blood cells and anaemia. 
This review collates the available evidence from standardised studies for treatment of HCV in dialysis patients and did not include uncontrolled studies. Ten studies all in haemodialysis with about 300 patients showed that standard interferon was effective in producing a short term response which was not sustained and was well tolerated. 
Pegylated interferon was more effective than standard interferon in producing a short‐term response but not a sustained one and both were equally tolerated. Increasing the dose of pegylated interferon did not improve response but was tolerated. Addition of ribavirin to interferon resulted in more treatment discontinuation. Adverse effects of interferons include flu like symptoms, sleep disturbances, decreased appetite, vomiting, diarrhoea or constipation, hair loss and low blood counts. Limitations of this review are that only a few studies were available with few participants, and patients with serious disease were excluded from studies in anticipation of side effects. Hence evidence available was not of high quality. 
