How accurate is computed tomography for the diagnosis of acute appendicitis in adults?
Why is improving the diagnosis of appendicitis important? The purpose of using computed tomography (CT) in persons with suspected appendicitis is to assist the clinician in differentiating between persons who need surgery with resection of the appendix (appendicectomy) and persons who do not need this procedure. 
What is the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate CT of the abdomen and pelvis is for diagnosing appendicitis in adults. Researchers at Cochrane included 64 studies in the review to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? A CT‐scan can be performed in several ways. Image quality can be improved by using intravenous contrast material, and visualization of the appendix can be better when oral or rectal contrast material is used. CT can also be performed with low‐dose radiation. The radiation exposure related to CT may increase lifetime risk of cancer. This Cochrane Review studied the accuracy of the following types of CT: any type of CT, CT according to type of contrast material, and low‐dose CT. 
What are the main results of this review? This review included 64 relevant studies that reported results for 71 separate study populations with a total of 10,280 participants. Overall results of these studies indicate that in theory, if CT of any type were to be used in an emergency department in a group of 1000 people, of whom 43% have appendicitis, then: • an estimated 443 people would have a CT result indicating appendicitis, and of these, 8% would not have acute appendicitis; and • of the 557 people with a CT result indicating that appendicitis is not present, 4% would actually have acute appendicitis.  Low‐dose CT appeared to be as accurate as standard‐dose CT for diagnosing appendicitis. CT with intravenous, rectal, or oral and intravenous contrast material appeared to be equally accurate, and more accurate than CT without use of contrast material. 
How reliable are the results of the studies in this review? Among the included studies, the final diagnosis of appendicitis was based on operative findings or microscopic examination of the resected appendix. Among participants who did not have surgery, appendicitis was ruled out by following up to see whether their symptoms resolved without appendicectomy. This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had appendicitis when follow‐up was careful and complete. Unfortunately, this was not so in a substantial proportion of the included studies. In general, some problems with how the studies were conducted were evident. This may have resulted in CT appearing more accurate than it really is, thereby increasing the number of correct CT results (green rectangles) in the diagram. 
To whom do the results of this review apply? Studies included in the review were carried out mainly in emergency departments. Appendicitis was suspected in all participants following clinical examination and blood testing. Included studies evaluated a wide range of types of CT. Participants' average age ranged from 25 to 46 years across studies, and the percentage of women varied between 26% and 100%. The percentage of study participants with a final diagnosis of appendicitis varied between 13% and 92% across studies (average, 43%). 
What are the implications of this review? CT is an accurate test that is likely to assist clinicians in treating persons with possible appendicitis. Results of this review indicate that the chance of a clinician wrongly diagnosing acute appendicitis appears to be low (8% among those whose CT results suggest they have appendicitis). The chance of missing a diagnosis of appendicitis is also low (4% among those whose CT results suggest they do not have appendicitis). 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for and included studies published up to 16 June 2017.
