Are antipsychotic medicines safe and effective for treating people who have schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms? 
Key messages 
‐ We could not answer whether antipsychotic medicines are safe and effective for schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms because we found only one study including a small number of people and a brief duration of treatment, leaving us with very low confidence in the results.  
‐ We did find that in the only included study both an antipsychotic medicine (risperidone) and electroconvulsive therapy may improve catatonic and positive symptoms of psychosis, but that electroconvulsive therapy may be better for the first three weeks in people who did not first respond to the medicine lorazepam. We found no unusual or dangerous side effects with either treatment.  
‐ Larger, well‐designed studies are needed to give better estimates of the benefits and potential harms of antipsychotics compared with other treatments in people with symptoms of catatonia in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. 
What are schizophrenia spectrum disorders and catatonic symptoms? 
Schizophrenia and related spectrum disorders are serious mental disorders that present with a wide range of psychotic symptoms such as false ideas, hearing voices, and trouble thinking. Some people also have catatonic symptoms such as the inability to move or speak or repetitive movements over which they have little control. People with catatonic symptoms may be unable to interact or communicate with others.  
How are schizophrenia spectrum disorders and catatonic symptoms treated? 
Antipsychotic medicines are the standard treatment that improve many of the psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia spectrum disorders (such as false ideas or hearing voices), but are less effective for other symptoms (such as social withdrawal or problems with paying attention). Some evidence suggests that antipsychotic medicines may not be as effective in people with schizophrenia spectrum disorders who also have catatonic symptoms. Catatonic symptoms may also put such people at risk for side effects of antipsychotic medicines. Catatonic symptoms themselves are usually treated with sedating medicines or electroconvulsive therapy (a treatment in which brief seizures are caused by applying an electrical stimulus through electrodes on the head).  
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if any single antipsychotic medicine works better than other antipsychotics, other pharmacological agents, electroconvulsive therapy, other brain stimulation therapies, or placebo (an inactive or neutral treatment) for treating psychotic and catatonic symptoms in people who have schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at any antipsychotic medicine compared with other antipsychotics, other pharmacological agents, electroconvulsive therapy, other brain stimulation therapies, or placebo in people with schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms. We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found one study that involved 14 people with schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms that lasted three weeks and compared an antipsychotic medicine (risperidone) with electroconvulsive therapy. The study took place in India and received support from the National Institute of Mental Health and Neurosciences in Bangalore. Study authors found that both risperidone and electroconvulsive therapy improved symptoms of psychosis and catatonia, but that electroconvulsive therapy was better for the first three weeks of treatment. No unusual or dangerous side effects occurred with either treatment. Whilst both these treatments may reduce psychotic and catatonic symptoms, we are very uncertain of the results because of the small numbers of study participants and the short duration of the study. As a result, we cannot conclude that any antipsychotic is more or less safe and effective compared to other treatments. Better studies are needed to study the benefits and safety of antipsychotics to improve treatment of schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms.  
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We are not confident in the evidence because there are not enough studies to be certain about the results. The one included study was very small and brief, and the evidence did not cover all of the outcomes we were interested in. 
How up‐to‐date is this evidence? 
The evidence is current to September 2021.
