Discontinuation of intravenous oxytocin used to stimulate uterine contractions in the active phase of induced labour 
What is the issue? 
Oxytocin is a natural hormone, which causes the uterus (womb) to have regular, painful contractions and labour to start. It is available as an intravenous (into a vein (IV)) drug and infused slowly to artificially stimulate labour if doctors or midwives feel that it is necessary to accelerate the birth of the baby, or if the mother requests it. In Western countries, about one in four pregnant women have labour induced, usually with prostaglandin drugs either alone or in combination with oxytocin. 
Risks associated with using IV oxytocin to stimulate uterine contractions include the woman having contractions that are too long or too frequent (uterine hyperstimulation), which can lead to changes in the baby’s heart rate and the need for emergency caesarean. This review examines whether stopping IV oxytocin once labour is well‐established (i.e. the cervix is dilated more than halfway) reduces the associated risks for mother and baby compared to continuing with IV oxytocin. 
Why is this important? 
Stopping oxytocin infusion once active labour has started could result in a more natural childbirth, particularly if the risk of uterine overstimulation and need for immediate caesarean section is reduced. Also, the overall total dose of oxytocin the mother received would be reduced, which could lead to fewer adverse effects (e.g. maternal nausea, vomiting and headache, or changes to the baby's heart rate). 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (January 2018) and found 10 randomised controlled studies (1888 women and their babies) conducted between February 1998 and January 2016 at hospitals in Denmark, Greece, Turkey, Israel, Iran, USA, Bangladesh, India, and Thailand. We cannot be confident in the results because of study design limitations and how the findings were reported. 
Stopping IV oxytocin during active labour may reduce the number of women who have a caesarean section (nine trials, 1784 women). However, when we performed another analysis including only those women who were actually in active labour, we found that there is probably little or no difference between the two groups (four trials, 787 women). 
Discontinuing IV oxytocin probably reduces the risk of women having contractions that become too long or too strong resulting in changes to the baby’s heart rate (three trials, 486 women). We are uncertain about whether stopping IV oxytocin or not affects the risk of having a bacterial infection of the membranes or sac inside the womb) (one trial, 252 women). Stopping IV oxytocin during labour may have little or no impact on women’s use of analgesia and epidural compared to women who continued to receive IV oxytocin (three trials, 556 women). 
There were probably fewer babies in the discontinued IV oxytocin group with abnormal cardiotocography results (an electronic method of measuring both the women’s contractions and the baby’s heartbeat) compared to women who continued to receive IV oxytocin (seven trials, 1390 women). 
Compared to continued IV oxytocin, discontinuing IV oxytocin probably has little or no impact on the number of babies with a low score on a standard test of well‐being for newborn babies (Apgar), five minutes after being born (four trials, 893 women), or another other measure of infant well‐being involving analysing blood taken from the umbilical cord once (four trials, 873 women). 
The included trials did not report on many of this review's outcomes, including death of the mother or her baby. 
What does this mean? 
Stopping oxytocin after the active phase of labour has started may reduce the number of women with contractions that become too long or too strong resulting in changes to the baby’s heart rate, and the risk of having a caesarean. However, the possible reduction in the risk of caesarean may be an artefact of poor study design. 
