Exhaled nitric oxide to guide asthma treatment for adults
Background 
We examined whether exhaled nitric oxide (a marker in the breath which can show a type of lung inflammation) is useful in adjusting asthma medications in adults in comparison to the usual ways that asthma medications are adjusted. Exhaled nitric oxide levels are easily obtained by getting the person to breathe into a commercially available analyser. 
Study characteristics 
We included all randomised controlled trials that compared adjustment of asthma medications by usual clinical care (control group) versus using exhaled nitric oxide. The participants included in the trials had asthma diagnosed as per relevant asthma guidelines. 
The evidence is current to June 2016, when the searches were last completed.
We found seven studies in the searches. Of 1700 randomised participants, 1546 completed the trials. The studies varied in a few aspects including duration, cutoff levels used for altering medications based on fractional exhaled nitric oxide (FeNO), and the way each study defined exacerbations. The included studies ranged from 4 months to 12 months in duration. The FeNO cutoff values the studies used also varied. The levels used for decreasing medications ranged from 10 ppb to 25 ppb. Likewise, the levels used for increasing medications ranged from 15 ppb to 35 ppb in the included studies. The majority of the studies were industry supported. 
The mean ages of the participants ranged from 28 to 54 years old.
Key results 
In this review involving 1700 adults with asthma, we found that guiding the dose of asthma medications based on exhaled nitric oxide (compared to a control group) was beneficial in reducing the number of exacerbations (flare‐ups) during the study period. However, we did not find a difference between groups for other asthma outcomes that impact on day‐to‐day clinical symptoms, hospitalisations, or inhaled steroid dose. Thus, using exhaled nitric oxide levels to adjust asthma therapy may reduce the risk of adults having an asthma flare‐up but did not impact on day‐to‐day symptoms. 
