The role of the monoclonal antibody alemtuzumab for treatment of people with chronic lymphocytic leukaemia 
Chronic lymphocytic leukaemia (CLL) is a cancer and accounts for 25% of all leukaemias. The disease is the most common cancer of the lymphatic system in Western countries and is characterised by a highly variable clinical course and prognosis. Some patients may have minimal or no symptoms for many years with a normal life expectancy, without requiring treatment. Others are symptomatic at diagnosis or early thereafter and can experience infectious and autoimmune complications, leading to a reduced lifespan. Standard treatment includes chemotherapy with one or more agents. Nowadays monoclonal antibodies are added, especially alemtuzumab and rituximab. However, the impact of these agents remains unclear, as there were hints for increased overall survival, but also risk for severe infections in non‐randomised trials. In this systematic review we summarised and analysed the evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on efficacy and safety of alemtuzumab in the treatment of CLL. We searched several important medical databases such as CENTRAL, MEDLINE and EMBASE and found five RCTs fulfilling our pre‐defined inclusion criteria. We included trials that compared alemtuzumab with no further therapy or with anti‐cancer therapy in newly‐diagnosed or relapsed patients with CLL. In total, 845 patients were treated within the five trials. 
Two trials assessed whether alemtuzumab is favourable compared with no further therapy. One trial reported data on overall survival, showing a significant advantage for those patients receiving additional alemtuzumab. The time without progression was statistically significantly improved in both trials with alemtuzumab, but more patients had an infection, especially a virus infection (cytomegalovirus infection). Because of severe infections, one trial was closed prematurely. 
Two trials evaluated alemtuzumab versus rituximab. Neither study reported data on survival or survival without a relapse of the disease. We found no statistically significant differences for response to therapy or for deaths during study treatment. One trial was stopped early due to an increase in mortality in the alemtuzumab arm. 
In the fifth trial alemtuzumab was compared with chemotherapy (chlorambucil). In this trial no difference in survival could be detected until the last publication of the study. Alemtuzumab statistically significantly improves the survival without a relapse, the time to anti‐cancer treatment for relapse, and the response rate. Again, more infections occurred in the patients treated with alemtuzumab, especially infections with the cytomegalovirus that could lead to lung and retina infections. 
In summary, the currently available evidence suggests an survival advantage for alemtuzumab compared with no further therapy, but an increased risk for infections in general and for cytomegalovirus. 
