Peripheral laser iridotomy for pigmentary glaucoma
Review questionWhat are the effects of peripheral laser iridotomy compared with other treatments or no treatment for patients with pigment dispersion syndrome or pigmentary glaucoma? 
BackgroundGlaucoma is a chronic eye condition associated with vision loss over time. One of the major risk factors for glaucoma is increased pressure in the eye, known as ocular hypertension. In eyes with pigment dispersion syndrome (PDS), particles from the iris (colored part of the eye) break off from the iris and are deposited on other parts within the eye. Sometimes, these particles block the flow of fluid out of the front portion of the eye, leading to ocular hypertension. Pigmentary glaucoma is a specific form of glaucoma that may be found in patients with PDS. Topcial medical therapy is usually the first‐line treatment; however, peripheral laser iridotomy has been proposed as an alternate treatment. 
Peripheral iridotomy is a procedure that is performed with a laser. A laser light beam is used to burn a small hole in the iris to create an opening for free movement of fluid within the front portion of the eye. The goal of this procedure is to reduce pressure within the eye, thereby reducing the chance of glaucoma and/or vision loss. However, it is unknown whether peripheral iridotomy reduces the development or progression of pigmentary glaucoma in practice. 
Study detailsWe searched different electronic databases to identify randomized controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of peripheral iridotomy in people with PDS or pigmentary glaucoma. We included five trials with a total of 260 eyes of 195 participants. Searches were up to date as of 2 November 2015. 
Key resultsWe found no clear benefit for peripheral laser iridotomy versus no laser in eyes with PDS or pigmentary glaucoma in terms of preventing loss of visual field. Very low‐quality evidence suggests that laser iridotomy may be more effective in lowering pressure within the eye when compared with no laser iridotomy for up to 10 years after treatment. Few adverse effects were reported among participants in these trials; the most commonly reported adverse events were mild postoperative inflammation and cataract. 
Quality of the evidenceWe graded the quality of evidence as very low as the result of poor reporting of study methods, incomplete information for meaningful analysis of data, and variation in outcomes assessed among trials. In conclusion, evidence is inadequate to support the use of peripheral iridotomy as treatment for pigmentary glaucoma. Well‐designed randomized controlled trials are needed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of peripheral iridotomy for PDS and pigmentary glaucoma. 
