Animal‐assisted therapy for people with dementia
Review question 
Do therapy sessions that involve live animals help people with dementia?
Background 
Dementia is an increasingly common condition across the world. People with dementia have progressive loss of the ability to think, remember, and communicate; to manage their daily activities; and to mix successfully with other people. Many people with dementia also develop depression and related problems. To date, no treatment has proven able to cure the disease or stop it from getting worse. However, many treatments are in use which aim to improve the well‐being of people with dementia and the people who look after them. Animal‐assisted therapy (AAT) is one of the types of treatment that has been studied. It is thought that animals could help people with dementia by providing companionship and support in daily activities and that this might lead to improvements in physical and mental health, including better mood and fewer problematic behaviours. 
Search date 
We searched medical databases to September 2019.
Key characteristics of included studies 
We included nine randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), involving 305 people with dementia, which compared AAT to a control treatment (either usual care or an alternative treatment). All studies took place in Europe or the US. Seven studies compared AAT to usual care or to another activity which had nothing to do with animals. Two studies compared AAT (using live animals) to the use of robotic animals. One study compared AAT to the use of a soft toy cat. There were some features of the studies which could have biased the results. Study participants and care staff knew what treatment a person was receiving and this might have affected some results. Also, it was not always clear that the randomisation to treatments had been done as well as possible. 
Funding sources 
The studies received funding from various sources, including research grants (four studies), personal donation (one study), and support from an institute that promotes AAT (two studies). Two studies did not describe how they were funded. 
