Anti‐VEGF for prevention of postoperative vitreous cavity haemorrhage after vitrectomy for proliferative diabetic retinopathy 
Review question  Does anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) reduce the occurrence of posterior vitreous cavity haemorrhage (POVCH) after vitrectomy surgery for proliferative diabetic retinopathy? 
Background  POVCH is a significant complication following vitrectomy (removal of the vitreous gel from the posterior chamber of the eye) for the treatment of proliferative retinopathy (the growth of abnormal blood vessels from the retina, a layer of tissue at the back of the eye), occurring in approximately 30% of cases. POVCH has two main forms: early, when haemorrhage (bleeding) is present in the first few postoperative days, and late, when haemorrhage occurs a number of months after surgery. The presence of POVCH delays visual recovery, can lead to elevated pressure within the eye, and can make further treatment for diabetic retinopathy difficult. Ten per cent of patients require revision surgery, which has significant implications for resources, time, and cost. The use of anti‐VEGF before surgery (preoperatively) has been proposed as an intervention to reduce the incidence of POVCH. 
Search date  The evidence is up to date to May 2015. 
Key results  The electronic database searches identified 12 randomised controlled trials that met the inclusion criteria. We performed a number of analyses that suggest that pre‐ or intraoperative anti‐VEGF may reduce the incidence of early POVCH. The effect on late POVCH was unclear. We are currently unable to comment on the effect of anti‐VEGF treatment on postoperative visual acuity due to significant differences in the studies' design and outcomes. 
The risk of adverse events when using preoperative anti‐VEGF appears small.
Quality of evidence  We are reasonably certain that anti‐VEGF reduces the incidence of early POVCH (high‐quality evidence) but less certain about its effects on late POVCH and risk of adverse effects. 
