High‐dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplant compared to conventional therapy for children with high‐risk neuroblastoma 
Despite the development of new treatment options, the prognosis of high‐risk neuroblastoma patients still remains poor; in more than half of patients the disease returns. Stem cell rescue replaces blood‐forming stem cells that were destroyed by high‐dose chemotherapy in order to recover the bone marrow. It is also known as myeloablative therapy and might improve the survival of these patients. A well‐informed decision on the use of myeloablative therapy in the treatment of children with high‐risk neuroblastoma should be based on high quality evidence of effectiveness for treating tumours and side effects. 
This systematic review focused on randomised studies comparing the effectiveness of myeloablative therapy with conventional therapy in children with high‐risk neuroblastoma. The authors found three studies including 739 patients. These studies provide evidence that myeloablative therapy improves event‐free survival (that is, the time until a certain event, for example tumour progression, the development of a second tumour, or death from any cause occurs). For overall survival (that is, the time until a patient dies from any cause, so not only from the tumour or its treatment, but for example, also from a car accident) there is no evidence of a better outcome in patients treated with myeloablative therapy. Side effects such as renal (kidney) effects, interstitial pneumonitis (a type of lung disease) and veno‐occlusive disease (a condition in which some of the small veins in the liver are obstructed) were more common in patients treated with myeloablative therapy than conventional chemotherapy. It should be noted that this systematic review only allows a conclusion on the concept of myeloablative therapy; no conclusions regarding the best treatment strategy with regard to, for example, types of chemotherapeutic agents and the use of radiation therapy, could be made. More high quality research is needed. 
