Homeopathy for treatment of irritable bowel syndrome
What is irritable bowel syndrome? 
Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a common chronic disorder where a person experiences the following symptoms: abdominal pain, discomfort, bloating, constipation or diarrhoea or both. It is difficult to treat because different people experience different symptoms. Some people experience constipation as the main symptom, this form of IBS is known as IBS‐C, while others experience diarrhoea as the main symptom. This form of IBS is known as IBS‐D. Others experience both constipation and diarrhoea, this form of IBS is known as IBS‐M where the M stands for mixed. Currently there is no agreement on the best form of treatment for IBS.This means that it is important to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of treatments, including homeopathic treatment, which some IBS sufferers use. 
What is homeopathy? 
There are different types of homeopathy. Clinical homeopathy matches a 'remedy' to a specific condition, such as IBS and everybody who has that condition would be given the same remedy. Individualised homeopathy involves a series of in‐depth consultations to assess symptoms and other issues that may affect the patient. Following an in‐depth consultation the homeopath will select the most appropriate remedy based on the persons' individual symptoms. Individualised homeopathy includes both a consultation and a remedy, whereas clinical homeopathy consists of a remedy without the in‐depth consultation. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers investigated whether homeopathic treatment led to the improvement of the symptoms of IBS in people with IBS. 
What did the researchers find? 
Four randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with 307 participants with IBS were included. Two RCTs (129 participants) compared a homeopathic remedy (asafoetida and asafoetida plus nux vomica) to a placebo remedy for the treatment of people with IBS‐C. One study (23 participants) compared individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care in female patients diagnosed with IBS. One study (94 participants) was a three armed study comparing individualised homeopathic treatment plus usual care, supportive listening plus usual care and usual care. 
The four trials tested the effects of homeopathic treatment on the severity of IBS symptoms. No conclusions can be drawn from the RCT comparing individualised homeopathic treatment to usual care due to the small number of participants and the low quality of reporting in this trial. This study was carried out in 1990 and usual care for IBS may have changed since then making the results difficult to compare to current treatments. 
