Interventions for helping people use eye drops as prescribed for raised eye pressure or glaucoma 
A large number of people do not use eye drops as prescribed. Glaucoma is a slowly progressive eye disease, which can result in severe vision loss. Drops prescribed for raised eye pressure or glaucoma are aimed at lowering the pressure to assist in reducing the rate of progression, or preventing the conversion of raised eye pressure to glaucoma. It is important that these eye drops are used continually, usually for life. Approximately one‐third of people who are prescribed eye drops for the first time fail to continue collecting prescriptions within the first year and even when patients collect prescriptions they do not always use the drops as frequently as they should. A number of reasons are thought to be the cause, for example, forgetfulness, being prescribed a large number of medications, difficulties instilling drops, lack of knowledge about glaucoma, a busy lifestyle and seeing no benefit. 
This review is based on 16 studies (1565 participants) that tried out different methods to help people to use drops as prescribed. All the studies took place in industrialised countries (Belgium, Denmark, France, Greece, Iceland, Japan, Sweden, Switzerland, UK and USA) and recruited participants in outpatient clinics. The following interventions were included: simplifying drop routines, reminder devices, automated telephone service, providing information about glaucoma and offering advice regarding day to day issues with eye care. Those studies which combined the provision of information about glaucoma and eye drops with other interventions, such as helping people to fit instillation of eye drops into their daily routine, appear to be more successful. Unfortunately, not all of these studies were of high quality and, therefore, until more evidence is available we cannot recommend any particular method. Good quality research is needed in this area in order to develop a better understanding of patients' individual needs and to help us provide more effective eye care services. 
