Review question Chlamydia trachomatis (C trachomatis) is a common, sexually transmitted infection. It can cause serious health problems if not treated early, but many people with C trachomatis do not notice any symptoms and need to have a urine or swab test to confirm infection. This review aimed to find out how accurate new test methods, such as rapid point‐of‐care (tests at the time and place of patient care) tests are for diagnosing C trachomatis infection.  Background There are about 90 million cases of C trachomatis infection worldwide and 3 million cases annually among young and sexually active people. Rapid point‐of‐care tests can be performed in less than 30 minutes without the need for expensive or sophisticated equipment. The main advantage of this technology is the immediate display of results so that treatment can start straight away.   Study characteristics We searched for evidence in November 2019 and found 19 relevant studies with 13,676 participants, published between 1999 and 2016. The studies compared the accuracy of the current ‘gold standard’ test (nucleic acid amplification tests (NAAT)) with a total of nine different brands of rapid point‐of‐care tests.  Key Results This review looked at the accuracy of rapid point‐of‐care tests for diagnosing C trachomatis infection in nonpregnant women and men. Our results show that there is a 42% to 62% chance of the test result incorrectly indicating no C trachomatis infection, and close to a 2% chance of the test incorrectly indicating a C trachomatis infection. This means that for every 1000 patients tested, the point‐of‐care test could fail to diagnose between 420 to 620 people, who could go on to develop serious health problems as a result of the incorrect diagnosis.  Quality of the evidence All the included studies used reliable methods to look at the tests, so we thought that they were high quality. However, in some studies, most of the participants were at high risk of C trachomatis infection or already showed symptoms, so we are not sure how useful their results would be for low‐risk people not showing symptoms. Also, some studies reported very different results from others, and we could not explain the difference.   Conclusion C trachomatis infection is potentially very serious so we think that health providers should not rely on rapid point‐of‐care tests to diagnose C trachomatis infection. In future, research should investigate different technologies. 