Professional interventions for general practitioners (GPs) on the management of musculoskeletal conditions 
Thirty studies met our inclusion criteria.
Eleven studies evaluated interventions aiming to improve the management of osteoporosis by GPs. Five of these studies were sufficiently similar that we were able to combine their results. Our findings suggest that alerting the GP that a patient is at risk of osteoporosis and educating the patient, reminding them to visit their GP, leads to improved GP behaviour (diagnostic testing and medication prescribing). We determined that the quality or certainty of the evidence from these studies is high, so we are confident in these results. GP alerting on its own is also probably effective according to two studies and adding the patient‐directed component probably does not lead to a greater effect. 
Of the ten studies on low back pain, seven showed that GP education and distribution of guidelines may lead to little or no improvement with regards to GPs' clinical behaviour. Two studies showed that providing GPs with guidelines and information on the total number of tests they request may have an effect on GP behaviour (resulting in a slight reduction in the number of tests). One study showed that using a combination of guidelines and GP reminders attached to test reports may result in a small but sustained reduction in the number of tests. 
Of the four studies on osteoarthritis, one found that GP behaviour may improve when prominent GPs are recruited to educate their colleagues. A second study showed slight improvements in patient outcomes (pain control) after training GPs on pain management. 
Of the three studies on shoulder pain, one study showed that there may be little or no improvement in patient outcomes (functional capacity) after GP education on shoulder pain and injection training. 
Of the two studies on other musculoskeletal conditions, one study on pain management showed worse patient outcomes (pain control) after GP training on the use of tools to measure pain. 
The 12 remaining studies across all musculoskeletal conditions showed little or no improvement in GP behaviour and patient outcomes. The majority of the studies did not investigate the potential adverse effects of the interventions and only three studies included a cost‐effectiveness analysis. 
