Stem cell treatment for chronic ischaemic heart disease and congestive heart failure
Review question 
Are adult stem/progenitor cells derived from bone marrow safe and effective as a treatment for chronic ischaemic heart disease and heart failure? 
Background 
The current treatment for people suffering from heart disease and heart failure is drugs and, when possible, restoration of the blood supply in the heart (revascularisation) either by opening the arteries with a tiny balloon in a procedure called primary angioplasty (or percutaneous coronary intervention) or by heart surgery (or coronary artery bypass graft). Revascularisation has reduced the death rate associated with these conditions. In some people, heart disease and heart failure symptoms persist even after revascularisation. Recently, bone marrow stem/progenitor cells have been investigated as a new treatment for people with heart disease and heart failure, whether or not they also undergo revascularisation. 
Search date 
We searched electronic databases for relevant randomised controlled trials to December 2015. 
Study characteristics 
We included 38 randomised controlled trials involving more than 1900 participants in this review, with 14 trials of chronic ischaemic heart disease, 17 trials of ischaemic heart failure secondary to heart disease, and seven trials of refractory or intractable angina. The mean age of participants ranged from 55 to 70 years, and the proportion of male participants ranged from 51% to 100%. 
Key results 
Results indicated that treatment with bone marrow‐derived cells can lead to a reduction in deaths in participants followed for at least 12 months. Adverse events occurring around the time of treatment were generally rare. Participants who received cell treatment also experienced fewer heart attacks and arrhythmias when compared to those who received no cells. However, cell therapy does not appear to reduce the risk of rehospitalisation for heart failure or the combined risk of death, non‐fatal heart attack, or rehospitalisation, and did not result in any improvement over standard treatment in tests of heart function. These results suggest that cell therapy may be of benefit in people with chronic ischaemic heart disease or heart failure, or both. 
