Cognitive behavioural therapies for fibromyalgia syndrome
Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of research about the effects of cognitive‐behavioural therapies (CBTs) on fibromyalgia (FM). After searching for all relevant studies, they found 23 studies with up to 2031 people. Their findings are summarised below. 
After about 12 weeks, children, adolescents and adults with FMS, who used CBTs compared to controls, were likely to report that CBT 
‐ may reduce slightly pain, negative mood and disability at the end of the treatment;
‐ may reduce slightly pain, negative mood and disability six months after the end of treatment. 
There was no difference between CBTs and controls in the number of people who withdrew from treatment. 
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications of CBTs. Rare complications may include worsening of co‐existing mental disorders. 
What is fibromyalgia and what are cognitive behavioural therapies? 
People with FM suffer from chronic widespread pain, sleep problems and fatigue. There is no cure for FM at present, so treatments aim to relieve symptoms and to improve daily functioning. 
Cognitive behavioural therapies (CBTs) are widely used psychological treatments for a wide range of health problems, including chronic pain. CBTs are effective in enhancing patients’ beliefs in their own abilities and developing ways to deal with health problems. The primary goals of CBTs are to change negative thoughts and feelings that individuals may have of their physical and mental problems and to change their behaviour accordingly. Patients learn skills (for example, relaxation, activity pacing) to help them to manage their pain better or develop different attitudes towards pain (for example, more acceptance), or both. 
Best estimates of what happens to people with FMS when they use CBTs 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain): 
‐ People who used CBTs rated their pain to be 0.5 points lower at the end of treatment (6.3% absolute improvement) and to be 0.6 points lower six months after the end of treatment on a scale of 0 to 10 (4.2% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who used CBTs rates their pain to be 6.9 points on a scale of 0‐10.
‐ People who used a control treatment rated their pain to be 7.4 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
Negative mood (higher scores mean worse or more severe negative mood): 
‐ People who used CBTs rated their depressed mood to be 0.7 points lower at the end of treatment (10.2% absolute improvement) and to be 1.3 points lower six months after the end of treatment on a scale of 0 to 10 (2.7% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who used CBTs rated their negative mood to be 6.1 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
‐ People who had a control treatment rated their negative mood to be 6.8 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
Disability (higher scores mean more disability): 
‐ People who used CBTs rated their disability to be 0.7 points lower at the end of treatment (7.2% absolute improvement) and to be 1.2 points lower six months after the end of treatment on a scale of 0 to 10 (11.7% absolute improvement). 
‐ Peope who used CBTs rated their disability to be 2.0 points on a scale of 0 to 10.
‐ People who used a control treatment rated their disability to be 2.8 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
