When should antibiotics be given to prevent infectious complications after cesarean birth? 
People who undergo surgery are at risk of developing infections, which complicate their recovery. In order to prevent these infections and reduce complications, antibiotics are sometimes given as a preventative (or prophylactic) treatment. The antibiotics are generally given approximately 60 minutes before the operation so that adequate tissue concentrations are reached before the skin is cut. For cesarean deliveries however, the effect of the antibiotic on the baby has to be considered, and for this reason antibiotics have been administered to women after the baby’s umbilical cord is clamped. This may not allow for adequate tissue penetration in the mother for the prevention of surgery‐related infections; additionally deferring antibiotics may not benefit the newborn. 
This review of randomized controlled studies looked at the different timing options for administration of prophylactic antibiotics to prevent infectious complications in women undergoing cesarean delivery. We compared preoperative administration to administration after the cord had been clamped. 
The review includes 10 studies (with data from 5041 women). The studies were at a low risk of bias. Antibiotics given to women before cesarean delivery nearly halved the risks of combined infections (43%), endometritis (46%), and wound infection (41%) compared to giving the antibiotics after clamping of the baby’s umbilical. Other maternal infections such as urinary or lung infections were no different between the two groups of women, nor were adverse effects in newborns. High quality evidence shows that preoperative intravenous antibiotic administration decreases postpartum infections and is, therefore, beneficial for the mother. Maternal side effects were not consistently reported. Numbers were limited with respect to information on newborns and any adverse outcomes. Further research may be needed to determine adverse effects on the babies. 
