Psychological, social and welfare interventions for the psychological health and well‐being of torture survivors 
Why is this review important? 
Torture is a widespread problem that can cause lasting and severe physical, psychological, social and welfare problems for survivors. Treatment is offered by various agencies: some provide support in diverse settings from refugee camps to high‐income countries; others support survivors in countries where current or recent repression or armed conflict is known. Resources for these services are scarce, so it is important that they are used to greatest effect to improve the well‐being of torture survivors. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Agencies providing health and welfare services for torture survivors; organisations that fund these agencies; torture survivors and those close to them. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
What intervention improves well‐being among torture survivors with psychological, social and welfare problems? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched the academic literature and the non‐academic literature such as reports of non‐governmental agencies providing services to April 2013, and again to June 2014. Studies had to describe a randomised controlled trial of intervention for psychological, social or welfare problems among torture survivors—adults or children. We found nine trials with 507 adults that examined varied psychological interventions compared with no treatment or a credible alternative treatment. Six trials were conducted at treatment centres in Europe, and three in African refugee settings; all focused on post‐traumatic stress and were of low to moderate quality. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
Very low‐quality evidence suggests no differences between psychological therapies and controls in terms of an immediate effect on post‐traumatic symptoms, distress or quality of life. However, at six‐month follow‐up, four studies (86 people) showed moderate benefit in terms of post‐traumatic stress and distress. Three trials were of narrative exposure therapy, and one of cognitive‐behavioural therapy, but we have little confidence in these results because the evidence was of very low quality and the trials included very small numbers of people. No studies assessed worsening of problems, nor changes in family and social relationships or community participation, with or without improvement in symptoms. 
What should happen next? 
Studies need to identify broader aims for intervention and should continue to test a range of interventions consistent with the breadth of problems of torture survivors. Investigators also need to assess changes with validity across cultures and languages. 
