Prophylactic drug management for febrile seizures in children
Background 
Seizures occurring with a fever (febrile seizures) in children are common and affect about one in 30 children under the age of six years. On average, one out of three children who have had a febrile seizure will have at least one more. We reviewed the evidence about the effect of drugs to prevent seizures (antiepileptics), drugs to lower temperature (antipyretics), and zinc in children with febrile seizures. 
Objective 
We wanted to know in how many children these drugs would prevent a recurrence of febrile seizures or cause unwanted effects. 
Methods 
We included 32 studies with a total of 4431 children in the review. Children who had had at least one febrile seizure were assigned to one of two or more treatment groups. The studies recorded any further seizures at various time intervals between six months and up to six years of age in each group. Unwanted medication effects were also noted. 
Results 
The study design and evidence quality in the studies of antiepileptic drugs was often low or very low. Poor methods known to lead to obvious risks of bias were used. One issue was with the methods used to assign children to study groups and how random this allocation was. Other issues included whether the parents or doctors, or both, knew which group each child was in or if a treatment was compared to no treatment with no placebo (dummy pill) used. The quality of the trials of antipyretics or zinc was better, with the evidence assessed as moderate to high. 
Zinc therapy was found to provide no benefit. We also found no benefit in treating children just at the time of the fever with either antipyretic drugs or most antiepileptic drugs. 
A significant result was noted in some instances. For example, at times between 6 and 48 months follow‐up, intermittent diazepam (an antiepileptic drug) led to a reduction in the number of recurrent seizures by about a third. Continuous phenobarbital resulted in significantly fewer recurrences at 6, 12, and 24 months, but not at 18 and 60 to 72 months. One study showed that intermittent oral levetiracetam compared to placebo significantly reduced recurrent seizures at 12 months. When compared to intermittent diazepam, intermittent oral melatonin did not significantly reduce seizures at six months. 
However, as recurrent seizures are only seen in about a third of children, this means that up to 16 children would have to be treated over a year or two to save just one child a further seizure. As febrile seizures are not harmful, we viewed these significant findings to be unimportant, in particular because adverse effects of the medications were common. Lower comprehension scores in phenobarbital‐treated children were found in two studies. In general, adverse effects were recorded in up to about a third of children in both the phenobarbital‐ and benzodiazepine‐treated groups. The benefit found for treatment with clobazam in one study published in 2011 needs to be repeated to test its reliability. Levetiracetam may be useful in treating children where family anxiety over possible seizure recurrence is high, but further study is required.  
Authors' conclusions 
There is currently insufficient evidence to support the use of continuous or intermittent treatment with zinc, antiepileptic or antipyretic drugs for children with febrile seizures. Febrile seizures can be frightening to witness. Parents and families should be supported with adequate contact details of medical services and information on recurrence, first aid management, and, most importantly, the benign nature of the phenomenon. 
The evidence is current to February 2020.
