Fludrocortisone for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension
Review question 
In people with orthostatic hypotension, does fludrocortisone prevent or reduce a symptomatic drop in blood pressure that occurs with changes in position (for example, from sitting to standing) and does it have unwanted effects? 
Background 
Orthostatic, or postural, hypotension is a condition in which blood pressure falls when moving from a seated or lying flat position to a standing position. Regular, reproducible symptomatic postural hypotension is an abnormal bodily response. 
Orthostatic hypotension can be due to the heart failing to supply enough blood to the brain after a change in position. It can also stem from failures in blood vessel response to a change in position, for which there are many causes. Medications, dehydration, poor physical health and age all contribute to the problem. It is more common among people older than 65 and increases with age. 
Symptoms include dizziness, lightheadedness and feeling faint. Some people have more general complaints such as weakness, fatigue, headache, visual blurring, trouble thinking, leg buckling, neck pain, breathlessness or chest pain. Some episodes of postural hypotension result in a faint, fall or 'black‐out'. Symptoms decrease when blood pressure returns to normal, typically when the person sits, lies or, occasionally, falls down. 
Fludrocortisone acetate is a man‐made steroid that increases blood volume and improves the ability of blood vessels to respond to changes in position. Fludrocortisone is taken by mouth. It has also been associated with high blood pressure, swelling, congestive heart failure, low potassium (a blood salt), headache, sleeplessness and increased sweating. Other common medications for postural hypotension include midodrine and droxidopa. 
Because postural hypotension results from many underlying diseases and conditions, it is important to understand the effect of fludrocortisone depending upon the underlying physical cause (heart pumping action or blood vessel reaction), by other underlying disease (Parkinson disease, diabetes, etc.) and by age. In this way, we can better understand whether different groups of people will be helped or harmed by using this medication. 
