Advanced sperm selection techniques for assisted reproduction
Review question 
We sought to determine if any advanced sperm selection techniques used for assisted reproduction, except for ultra‐high magnification, alter the rates of live birth, clinical pregnancy, miscarriage, or foetal abnormalities. 
Background 
In vitro fertilisation (IVF) with or without intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) is a commonly used treatment for subfertile couples. It is thought that the selection of high‐quality sperm may improve outcomes for these couples. Advanced sperm selection techniques use complex methods to select healthy, mature, and structurally sound sperm for fertilisation. Despite the use of these techniques in many centres worldwide, their effectiveness is unclear. 
Study characteristics 
We included eight randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) with a total of 4147 women. Four studies evaluated sperm selection by their ability to bind to hyaluronic acid during the ICSI process (HA‐ICSI) against ICSI. One study compared HA‐ICSI versus SpermSlow. One study compared HA‐ICSI versus magnetic‐activated cell sorting (MACS) versus ICSI. Three studies compared MACS versus ICSI. One study compared sperm selection by surface charge Zeta potential versus ICSI. Six of the included studies reported rates of live birth; seven reported clinical pregnancy; six reported miscarriage per clinical pregnancy and per woman randomly assigned; and none reported on foetal abnormalities. 
Key results 
The current evidence suggests that advanced sperm selection strategies in assisted reproductive technologist (ART) may not result in an increase in the likelihood of live birth. The only sperm selection technique that potentially increases live birth and clinical pregnancy rates is Zeta sperm selection, yet these results were of very low quality and derived from a single study, therefore we are uncertain of the effect. There is low‐quality evidence that HA‐ICSI decreases miscarriage rates when compared with ICSI. We are uncertain whether the other sperm selection techniques alter clinical pregnancy or miscarriage rates. No studies reported on foetal abnormalities, and further studies of suitable quality are required before any of these advanced sperm selection techniques can be recommended for use in clinical practice. 
