Are antibiotics a safe and effective additional treatment for asthma exacerbations?
Background to the question 
Asthma is a common long‐term breathing condition that affects adults and children worldwide. Individuals may experience short‐term worsening of their symptoms, often known as exacerbations (or asthma attacks). Exacerbations are usually treated by stepping up a person's medication (e.g. giving steroid tablets for a few days). Sometimes exacerbations can be triggered by infections such as viruses. Occasionally, a bacterial infection in the lungs or airways might cause an exacerbation. Symptoms of a bacterial infection include crackles on the chest, fever, and coughing up large volumes of discoloured sputum. Bacterial infections can be confirmed by laboratory tests, for example, blood tests; however, these are not always available in primary care (at the GP). Bacterial infections may require treatment with antibiotics. 
In this review, we wanted to find out whether or not antibiotics are helpful and safe for people having asthma exacerbations. Part of the motivation for this review is a concern that antibiotics may be over‐prescribed for people with asthma exacerbations. 
Study characteristics 
We looked for studies that compared a group of people given any type or dose of antibiotic with a group of people not given an antibiotic for an exacerbation. We included only studies in which it was decided by chance who would get an antibiotic. We included studies in adults and children carried out at any time and anywhere in the world. 
Key results 
We found six studies that included 681 adults and children with asthma. Two of these studies were carried out over 35 years ago. 
Overall, we found a small amount of evidence suggesting that antibiotics may improve symptoms and breathing test results compared with no antibiotic. We are not very sure about these results because only a small number of studies and people were included in our review. One of our primary outcomes ‐ admission to intensive care unit/high dependence unit (ICU/HDU) ‐ was not reported. 
We also cannot be sure if people given antibiotics have more or fewer adverse events (side effects). Only 10 people (5 given antibiotics and 5 given placebo/no antibiotic) out of 502 had a serious adverse event. 
We did not find much evidence about other important outcomes, such as admission to hospital or another exacerbation during the study follow‐up period. 
The most recent study found it difficult to recruit people with asthma because so many of them had already been given an antibiotic and so could not take part. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, we have low confidence in the evidence presented in this review. We think it is possible that some studies of antibiotics for asthma exacerbations have been carried out but not published because we were able to find so few studies about such an important question. We were also worried about how well study findings apply to all people with asthma attacks because most of the studies that we found recruited only people in hospitals and emergency departments. Also, two of the studies were old, and asthma treatment has changed a lot in 30 years. Because we found only a few studies, in some cases we cannot tell if antibiotics are better than, worse than, or the same as no antibiotic. Finally, we had some concerns about the ways in which studies were carried out, for example, in one study both patients and study staff knew who was getting an antibiotic and who was not; this might have affected how patients or staff behaved. 
Conclusions 
We found very limited evidence that antibiotics may help people having asthma attacks, and we are still very unsure. In particular, we did not find much information about important outcomes such as hospital admissions or side effects. However, serious side effects were very rare in the studies that we found. 
