Interventions delivered by social networking sites to support women's use of contraception
Background 
Unplanned pregnancies have a big impact on the health and well‐being of women, their families, and their communities. Social networking sites (SNSs) such as Facebook and Instagram are popular globally, but their potential in helping to improve contraceptive use has not been fully explored. 
Objectives 
To evaluate the effectiveness of using SNSs to promote the uptake of and adherence to contraception in reproductive‐age women. 
Search methods 
We ran an electronic search in January 2018 on several online databases and key conferences to identify relevant studies that used SNSs to improve contraceptive use in reproductive‐age women. 
Selection criteria 
To be included, studies must have used an SNS (either alone or with another method), and have followed the women involved for at least three months after the intervention. 
Data collection and analysis 
Two authors independently screened titles, abstracts and full‐text studies, and extracted data from included studies. A third author was assigned to resolve areas of disagreement. 
Main results 
We reviewed 461 titles, abstracts and full‐text articles and found only two studies that met the inclusion criteria. Both studies were conducted in the USA and had a high risk of bias. The first study divided women into two groups; one group received access to a website containing highly accurate medical information about contraception for the public called Bedsider.org, while the other group was exposed to nothing. The study found no differences between the groups in how consistently women used a contraceptive method, or their knowledge of how well each method prevented pregnancy. However, this study did find that more women in the group exposed to Bedsider.org used a highly effective contraceptive method one year later. 
The second study used a closed Facebook page exposing women to either sexual health content or news articles that avoided sexual health information in order to determine the impact on condom use. The study found no difference between groups in how consistently condoms were used six months postintervention or their intention to use condoms in the future. 
Authors' conclusions 
We found little scientific evidence available to support whether SNSs improve contraceptive use or continuation among women. 
