Yoga treatment for chronic non‐specific low back pain
Review question 
Does yoga improve back‐related function and pain in people with chronic non‐specific low back pain? 
Background 
Low back pain is a common health problem. For some people, it may last for three months or more and at this point it is termed 'chronic'. Yoga is sometimes used as a treatment for low back pain. 
Search date 
We searched medical databases for trials comparing yoga to any other treatment or to no treatment in adults (aged 18 years or greater). We also included trials comparing yoga added to other treatments, versus those other treatments alone. The evidence is current to March 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We included 12 trials with 1080 participants. Seven studies were carried out in the USA, three studies were carried out in India, and two studies were carried out in the UK. All studies measured changes in back‐related function or pain. Few studies reported on quality of life or depression, and only about half of the studies said anything about harms. 
Study funding sources 
Three studies did not report the source of funding. One study reported not receiving any funding; one study was funded by a yoga institution; and seven studies were funded by charity, university, or government sources. 
Key results 
Seven studies compared yoga to non‐exercise, which included no treatment, delayed yoga treatment, or education (e.g. booklets and lectures). Three studies compared yoga to back‐focused exercise or similar exercise programmes. Two studies had three treatment groups and compared yoga, non‐exercise, and back‐focused exercise. One of the studies comparing yoga to back‐focused exercise compared yoga plus back‐focused exercise to back‐focused exercise alone. 
For yoga compared to non‐exercise, there was low‐certainty evidence that yoga was probably better in improving back function at three months, moderate‐certainty evidence that yoga was probably better at six months, and low‐certainty evidence that yoga was probably slightly better at 12 months. There was very‐low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence for an improvement in pain at three, six, and 12 months, but the effects were not clinically important. 
For yoga compared to back‐focused exercise, there was very‐low‐certainty evidence that there may be little or no difference between yoga and non‐yoga exercise in improving back function at three and six months and no information on back function at 12 months, there was very‐low‐certainty evidence for an improvement in pain at seven months, and there was no information on pain at three or 12 months. For yoga plus back‐focused exercise compared to back‐focused exercise alone, there was very‐low‐certainty evidence from one study (24 participants) and it is uncertain whether yoga added to exercise was better than exercise alone for back function or pain at 10 weeks. Back function and pain were not measured after 10 weeks. 
The most common harms reported in the trials were increased back pain. There was moderate‐certainty evidence that the risk of harms was higher in yoga than in non‐exercise, and low‐certainty that the risk of harms was similar between yoga and back‐focused exercise. Yoga was not associated with a risk of serious adverse events. 
There was little information on clinical improvement, quality of life and depression, and no evidence on work‐related disability. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Participants in all the studies were aware of whether they were practicing yoga or not, and this may have influenced their reporting of changes in functioning, pain, and other measures. . In addition, some studies were very small, there were few studies in some comparisons, and the studies in some comparisons had inconsistent results. Therefore, we graded the certainty of the evidence 'moderate', 'low', or 'very low'. 
