Corticosteroid therapy for children with nephrotic syndrome
What is the issue? 
Nephrotic syndrome is a condition where the kidneys leak protein from the blood into the urine. When untreated, children can suffer from serious infections. In most children with nephrotic syndrome, this protein leak resolves with corticosteroid drugs (prednisone, prednisolone) reducing the risk of serious infection. However, children usually have repeat episodes which are often triggered by viral infections. Corticosteroid drugs can have serious side effects in children so we need to know the best way to use them. 
What did we do? 
We looked at evidence from 48 studies randomising 3941 children. Fourteen studies, in children with their first episode of nephrotic syndrome, evaluated prednisone for two or three months compared with longer durations. Thirteen studies evaluated different corticosteroid regimens in children with frequently relapsing disease (FRNS). Studies were of variable quality with only about half of the studies at low risk of producing biased results. 
What did we find? 
In high quality studies, there was no difference in the risk of relapse or in the number of children who relapse frequently between long duration (three to seven months) and shorter durations (two to three months) of prednisone (high certainty evidence). Giving daily rather than alternate‐day prednisone during a viral infection may reduce the number of children who relapse with infection. Two very small studies suggested that lower doses of prednisone can be used to achieve and maintain remission. 
Conclusions 
Children with their first episode of nephrotic syndrome only need two or three months of prednisone since longer courses do not reduce the risk of relapse or reduce the risk that the child will relapse frequently. We need more information to determine whether giving daily prednisone during an infection reduces the risk of relapse. We need a large study to determine whether we can use lower doses of prednisone to treat a relapse in children with nephrotic syndrome. 
