Treatment of genital Chlamydia trachomatis infection in pregnancy
What is the issue? 
This review aimed to assess whether the treatment of chlamydial infection during pregnancy cured the infection and prevented complications to the women and babies without causing side effects. This new review supersedes an earlier review on this topic. 
Why is this important? 
Chlamydia trachomatis is a bacterial infection which is sexually transmitted. It is more common in younger women. Women may have the infection without knowing it. In pregnant women, genital Chlamydia trachomatis can cause pregnancy complications such as preterm labour, preterm birth, premature rupture of the membranes, low birthweight of infants, and infection in the uterus after giving birth. Babies who acquire Chlamydia trachomatis during birth can develop infection of the lungs and the eyes. 
Finding an effective treatment with minimal side effects is extremely important considering the complications that can occur with untreated Chlamydia trachomatis infection in pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (June 2017) and included 15 studies in the review. The studies had a mixed risk of bias and were of limited quality, often with small numbers of participants. Three studies compared antibiotics (erythromycin, clindamycin, and amoxicillin) with placebo. The other studies compared different antibiotics with each other. 
All of the studies reported on curing chlamydia, based on the elimination of the bacteria, with an antibiotic. Erythromycin (moderate‐quality evidence from two studies, 495 women) and clindamycin (low‐quality evidence from one study, 85 women) appeared to be more effective than placebo. The quality of the evidence for amoxicillin versus placebo (one study 15 women) was very low so we cannot be certain of the results. 
When comparing different antibiotics with each other, no one antibiotic was substantially better than another at curing chlamydia in the studies that we examined: amoxicillin versus azithromycin (very low‐quality evidence from two studies, 144 women), amoxicillin versus erythromycin (high‐quality evidence from four studies, 466 women), azithromycin versus erythromycin (moderate‐quality evidence from six studies, 374 women), clindamycin versus erythromycin (low‐quality evidence from two studies, 173 women), amoxicillin versus clindamycin (moderate‐quality evidence from one study, 101 women). Only single trials assessed repeated infections, preterm birth, preterm rupture of membranes, perinatal mortality and low birthweight and found there were no clear differences between the different types of antibiotics examined. 
