Gamma aminobutyric acid modulators for amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease 
Review question 
Do medicines that promote the effects of the brain chemical gamma aminobutyric acid (GABA) delay the progression of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)? 
Background 
ALS, which is also known as motor neuron disease (MND), is a condition that affects motor neurons in the brain and spinal cord. A person with ALS gradually loses the ability to control movement. In about two‐thirds of people with ALS, the condition affects the arms first, and difficulty walking will follow. The muscles of the throat can also become weak, which affects swallowing and speaking. As the disease progresses, muscle wasting worsens, with stiffness, cramping and loss of the ability to move. Death generally occurs within two to five years. 
Glutamate is a chemical mediator in the brain that stimulates motor neurons. Glutamate overproduction is probably responsible for motor neuron damage in ALS. The molecule GABA acts to lessen the effects of glutamate. Medicines that increase GABA activity (GABA modulators), such as gabapentin and baclofen, are possible treatments for ALS. This is the first systematic review of the evidence from clinical trials of GABA modulators for ALS. 
Study characteristics 
A systematic search of the medical literature found two randomized trials of gabapentin compared with placebo (inactive treatment). The same team of scientists performed both trials, which were sponsored by the manufacturer. The trials involved a total of 355 people with ALS. Treatment with gabapentin lasted six and nine months. We found no trials of baclofen or other GABA modulators in ALS that met our selection criteria. We assessed the gabapentin trials as well run and well conducted. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Neither of the trials were long enough to for us to report survival at one year. Combined results from the two studies (based on 274 participants) provided high‐quality evidence of little or no difference in estimated one‐year survival, the rate of decline in respiratory function, or rate of decline in arm strength in people treated with gabapentin compared to those treated with placebo. One trial (128 participants) measured quality of life and monthly decline in function (measured by the ALS Functional Rating Scale). There was little or no difference in the ALS Functional Rating Scale (ALSFRS) or quality of life between the gabapentin group and the placebo group. 
People who received gabapentin had more light‐headedness, drowsiness, and limb swelling than those taking placebo when we combined data from both trials (353 participants). Fatigue and falls occurred more frequently with gabapentin than with placebo in one trial, but when we combined the data for fatigue from both trials, there was no clear difference between the groups. 
