Patient and lay carer education for preventing pressure ulceration in at‐risk populations
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether education programmes aimed at people at risk of developing pressure ulcers (also known as bedsores or decubitus ulcers) and their carers are effective in the prevention of pressure ulcers. We collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question, and found 10 studies with 11 publications for inclusion. Randomised controlled trials are medical studies where the treatment or care that people receive is chosen at random. This type of trial provides the most reliable health evidence. 
Key messages 
In all studies, it is uncertain whether educational interventions make any difference to the proportion of at risk people developing a new ulcer, or to patient or lay carer knowledge. 
What was studied in the review? 
Pressure ulcers are wounds that occur on the skin or underlying tissues. People who cannot move and change position (such as those using wheelchairs, or in long‐term nursing and hospital care) are at most risk of developing pressure ulcers. These wounds can cause pain, discomfort, and distress and have a negative effect on quality of life. Preventing pressure ulcers is therefore very important. Educating people about the risks of pressure ulcers and how to prevent them is considered to be an important part of preventative care. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 10 relevant studies, with 11 publications, (2261 participants analysed) dating from 2002 to 2018 comparing interventions aimed at educating people at risk of developing pressure ulcers or their carers. Four studies (five publications) included people with spinal cord injuries, mainly males, with a mean age of less than 60 years. The remaining studies included both males and females of varying ages, some who had disorders of the central nervous system, and others who were other types of at risk people cared for in hospital or in the community. Seven studies focused on people at risk of pressure ulcers; two focused on at risk people and carers; and one focused on lay carers. The interventions tested aimed to prevent pressure ulcers either by providing people with written information or by involving them in a variety of educational programmes. The studies explored the impact of the interventions on at risk people, either 1) the number of new pressure ulcers developed, 2) the severity of pressure ulcers developed, or 3) patient knowledge. None of the studies explored patient or lay carer satisfaction with the interventions. 
Two studies (three publications) were funded by the Department of Veterans Affairs (USA). Two studies were funded by the National Institute for Disability and Rehabilitation Research (USA). One study was funded by the Department of Health Policy Research Programme (UK); one study by the Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and Research (Chandigarh, India); one study by the Indian Council of Medical Research (New Delhi, India); and one study by the National Health and Medical Research Council (Australia). Two studies did not outline any source of funding. 
