Interventions for primary vesicoureteric reflux
What is the issue? 
Vesicoureteric reflux (VUR) is the backflow of urine from the bladder up the ureters to the kidney. People with VUR are thought to be more likely to get urinary tract infections (UTIs) involving the kidney tissue, which may cause permanent kidney damage. Current treatment options include surgical reimplantation of the ureters, long‐term antibiotics, endoscopic correction by subureteric injection of a substance (injection into the bladder under the ureter), complementary medicines, or a combination of interventions 
What did we do? 
A literature search identified all randomised studies comparing different treatment options in children with vesicoureteric reflux. Results along with study design details were extracted and compiled. Studies comparing similar treatments and outcomes had data pooled to obtain an estimate of effect on outcomes such as repeat urinary tract infection with illness, urinary tract infection with fever and kidney damage. 
What did we find? 
A total of 34 randomised studies, involving 4001 children were identified and underwent data extraction and analysis. The most frequent comparisons were for long‐term, low‐dose antibiotics with no treatment (8 studies) or placebo (4 studies) and antibiotics versus surgical reimplantation of ureters plus antibiotics (7 studies). Other treatments looked at endoscopic correction by injection compared with antibiotics (3 studies), different materials for endoscopic correction (2 studies) circumcision (1 study), probiotics (1 study), cranberry product (1 study), and oxybutynin (2 studies). 
Meta‐analysis of similar studies found that long‐term low‐dose antibiotic treatment compared with no treatment may lead to little or no difference in the risk for repeat UTIs in children with VUR. Associated side effects were infrequent and minor, but prophylaxis was associated with a threefold increased risk of bacterial resistance to the treatment drug in later infections. Surgery decreased the number of repeat UTIs with fever, but did not change the number of children developing UTI with illness or kidney damage. Many studies did not contribute to the meta‐analysis as they failed to report relevant outcomes or were single studies examining a treatment option not used by other studies or combinations of treatments. 
Conclusions 
Long‐term low‐dose antibiotic treatment in children with VUR makes little or no difference to the risk of repeat UTI causing a person to be unwell. Surgery may reduce the risk of repeat UTI with fever however this is based on two studies of 429 children who may not represent the majority and may not bear true in a more general group of children with VUR. Complementary therapies such as probiotics and cranberry were trialled in single or two studies and do not provide evidence of sufficient certainty to support or deny their use. 
