Blood transfusions for people with sickle cell disease before they undergo surgery
Review question 
We wanted to determine if blood transfusions given to people with sickle cell disease before routine or emergency surgery prevent complications due to sickle cell disease or surgery without causing any severe side effects. We also wanted to determine if any particular type of transfusion regimen is better in people with sickle cell disease undergoing surgery. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is a serious inherited blood disorder where the red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body, develop abnormally. The disorder mainly affects people of African, Caribbean, Middle Eastern, Eastern Mediterranean and Asian origin. 
Normal red blood cells are flexible and disc‐shaped, but in sickle cell disease they can become rigid and crescent shaped. Sickled cells are not only less flexible than healthy red blood cells, they are also stickier. This can lead to blockage of blood vessels, resulting in tissue and organ damage and episodes of severe pain. The abnormal blood cells are more fragile and break apart, which leads to a shortage of red blood cells, known as anaemia. 
People with sickle cell disease are more likely to require surgery than the general population because of complications due to sickle cell disease, such as gallstones, infections, and joint problems. However, surgery can lead to sickle cell‐related complications. 
Blood transfusions before an operation may help prevent complications by reducing the level of anaemia, diluting the sickled red blood cells, and increasing the level of oxygen in the blood.This may reduce the risk of blood vessels becoming blocked causing further damage. 
There are different types of blood transfusions. The main aim of an aggressive transfusion regimen is to reduce the number of sickled cells in the blood to below a certain level (usually sickled cells are removed and donor red cells given (exchange transfusion)), it also reduces the level of anaemia. The main aim of a conservative transfusion regimen is to reduce the level of anaemia, it also reduces the percentage of sickled cells in the blood (dilution effect) but no sickled cells are removed. An aggressive transfusion regimen decreases the percentage of sickled cells in the blood to a much lower level than a conservative transfusion regimen. 
Blood transfusions can be linked to adverse events such as: the development of antibodies to proteins on donor red cells (alloimmunisation); accumulation of too much iron in the body from repeated transfusions; increased infection rates after surgery; and extended length of stay in hospital. Some types of surgery may not require blood transfusion. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature to 28 January 2020. We included three trials with 990 people in this review. One trial compared aggressive transfusion to conservative transfusion. Two trials compared aggressive or conservative transfusion before surgery to no transfusion. The majority of people within the trials had one form of sickle cell disease (HbSS). The majority of the operations were those considered to be at low or intermediate risk for causing sickle cell‐related complications. 
Two of the three trials received government funding, the third trial did not report the funding source. 
Key results 
There was no difference between giving a blood transfusion before surgery to reduce the number of sickled cells below a certain low level (aggressive transfusion regimen) and giving a blood transfusion to increase the number of red cells in the blood (conservative transfusion regimen) in preventing surgical or sickle‐related complications immediately after surgery. 
Giving a blood transfusion before surgery may prevent development of sickle‐related lung problems. One trial was stopped early because more people developed sickle‐related lung problems in the no transfusion arm; however, the other trial did not show a difference.There was no difference between giving a blood transfusion before surgery compared to not giving a blood transfusion before surgery in preventing any other sickle‐related or surgical complications immediately after surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was rated as very low for this review's outcomes due to trials being at high risk of bias and because their was a small number of trials and a small number of participants included in the trials. 
