PCV chemotherapy for recurrent high grade glioma
The issue  Gliomas are primary brain tumours arising from supporting cells of the brain or spinal cord. The World Health Organization (WHO) classifies the condition into low‐grade and high‐grade glioma (HGG) depending on their appearance under the microscope. Higher grade correlates with worse outcomes. One of the outcomes is recurrence of glioma. 
The aim of the review  Recurrent high‐grade glioma carries a very poor prognosis. Treatment options are limited at recurrence. PCV is a nitrosourea‐based multi‐drug chemotherapy which can be used at recurrence. A multidrug regimen kills the cancer cells in more than one way and is therefore assumed to be more effective. There is lack of knowledge about the efficacy and adverse effects of PCV when used for treating recurrent HGG. 
What are the main findings?  In this review we found two randomised controlled trials which studied PCV in recurrent HGG patients. The comparator was Temozolomide (TMZ) in one and 'eight drugs in one day' multidrug chemotherapy in another. Results of the two trials were not combined because they compared PCV with different treatments. 
What is the quality of evidence?  Conclusions should be drawn with caution as they are based on a single trial analysis as the other trial was too small and underpowered to detect significant difference. Adverse effects and QoL results are based on a single trial analysis. The proportion of participants experiencing severe adverse events with PCV was similar to TMZ. QoL scores were higher with TMZ but not clinically significant. We attributed moderate‐grade quality of evidence for overall survival, progression‐free survival, chemotherapy toxicity and low‐grade evidence for QoL. 
What are the conclusions? 
Chemotherapy‐naive patients with HGG at first recurrence when treated with PCV or TMZ have similar survival and time‐to‐progression outcomes. Adverse events are similar and QoL scores are statistically but not clinically important between TMZ and PCV. The results do not apply to our contemporary patients with recurrent HGG as most of them would receive chemotherapy after original diagnosis as standard care. Participants in this trial received only radiotherapy prior to recurrence. Molecular markers were not used in decision making, which is the standard of care now. 
