Using alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists to prevent heart complications after major surgery
Review question 
Do alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists (clonidine, dexmedetomidine and mivazerol) reduce the number of deaths and heart complications when given around the time of surgery? 
Background 
Heart‐related complications can lead to death and long hospital stays after surgery. Each year, about 300 million people undergo major surgery, of whom nine million experience serious heart complications. These complications may occur, in part, because surgery places a large stress on the heart. This stress can lead to high blood pressure and high heart rates during surgery, neither of which are good for the heart. Alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists are a group of medicines that can prevent the blood pressure and heart rate from increasing during surgery. Thus, these medicines may also protect the heart from the stress of surgery. We wanted to find out if giving these medicines around the time of surgery could protect the heart from the stress of surgery and thus prevent major heart complications. 
Study characteristics 
We found 47 studies that were published up to May 2017. These studies involved 17,039 adults who had major surgery. Twenty‐four studies involved 2672 adults having heart surgery. Twenty‐three studies involved 14,367 adults undergoing major operations other than heart surgery. Forty studies compared alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists to dummy treatment (placebo). The other seven studies compared them to other medicines. Twenty‐one studies tested an alpha‐2 adrenergic agonist medicine called clonidine, 24 studied another medicine called dexmedetomidine and two studied another medicine called mivazerol. The duration of alpha‐2 adrenergic agonist medicine studied varied from one dose before surgery to three days of treatment. Most people who took part in these studies were men, and their average age was 60 to 70 years old. Fourteen studies reported receiving money from the company that manufactured the medicine being tested in the same study. Another 15 studies did not report where they received the money needed to fund the study. The number of people who took part in each study varied between 20 participants to as many as 10,000 participants. Nineteen studies included more than 100 participants. 
Key results 
We found that alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists generally had no clear benefits for preventing death or major complications after surgery. For people having major operations other than heart surgery, alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists did not lower their chances of dying, having a heart attack or having a stroke after surgery. We did not find sufficient evidence that, in people having heart surgery, alpha‐2 adrenergic lowered the risk of dying or having a heart attack after surgery. There was some very limited evidence that these medicines might prevent strokes after heart surgery. Nonetheless, more research is needed before we can be certain that alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists truly have this benefit. These medicines also had some important side effects. People who received alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists were much more likely to have low blood pressures or low heart rates during or after surgery. 
Quality of evidence 
We assessed the quality of all studies we identified using a specialized tool called the GRADE criteria. In general, we found that most of the evidence in these studies was moderate or high quality. Thus, based on our results, we can be reasonably certain that alpha‐2 adrenergic agonists are not helpful for reducing the numbers of deaths or major heart complications that happen after surgery. 
