Do pressure redistributing static chairs help to prevent pressure ulcers?
Key messages 
Despite a comprehensive search, we did not find any studies that looked at whether pressure redistributing static chairs help to prevent or manage pressure ulcers. This is an important topic area and high quality research is needed to determine whether or not such chairs benefit people at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
What are pressure ulcers? 
Pressure ulcers are injuries to the skin and underlying tissue that can be caused by prolonged pressure. Sitting can be an important part of a person's recovery process, but sitting for long periods can increase the risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
How are pressure ulcers managed? 
Specialist cushions and surfaces aim to redistribute pressure on the skin when people have to stay sitting for long periods of time. There has been more research into the effects of using pressure redistributing cushions in wheelchairs than in standard chairs.  
We do not currently know how effective pressure redistributing static chairs are, compared with standard chairs, for preventing or managing pressure ulcers in at‐risk people. 
Pressure redistributing static chairs range from standard hospital chairs and chairs used in residential settings with no cushion or manual/dynamic function, to those with integrated pressure redistributing surfaces and recline, rise or tilt function when the person is sitting in it. These can be produced to a standard design or a bespoke design tailored to the needs of the person. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out how effective pressure redistributing static chairs are for preventing or managing pressure ulcers in health, rehabilitation and social care settings, and residential places where people may spend their day.  
What did we do? We searched for published and unpublished studies that assessed pressure redistributing static chairs for preventing or managing pressure ulcers. There were no restrictions on language, date of publication or study setting. 
What did we find?  
We did not find any eligible completed or registered studies investigating the effects of pressure redistributing static chairs for preventing or managing pressure ulcers. 
