Motor neuroprosthesis for improving activities and participation of people in their natural environment after stroke 
Review question 
Is motor neuroprosthesis (MN) effective for improving activities and participation of people in their natural environment after stroke? 
Background 
Stroke survivors usually face long‐term impairment, activity limitation, and reduced participation. MN consists of electronic devices that electrically stimulate a nervous system structure to help the performance of daily activities in the natural environment in which people live, as an orthosis (a device applied to a body segment to optimize position, or to limit or assist movement). However, the role of MN for improving activities and participation after stroke is unclear. 
Study characteristics 
We found four studies of MN involving a total of 831 participants who more than three months poststroke, with mean ages from 53 to 64 years. All participants were able to walk from less than 0.5 m/s to more than 0.7 or even 0.9 m/s. The included studies were published between 2007 and 2015 in the USA and the Netherlands. All included studies applied MN directed to a nerve in the leg (peroneal nerve) to promote the contraction of a muscle at the front of the leg, thus preventing the foot 'dropping' as the leg was swung forward while the participant walked. MN was used from up to eight hours per day to all‐day use for walking about in the natural environment in which people live. Three studies used an MN device that interfaces with the nervous system through electrodes positioned over the skin in the projection of the peroneal nerve in the leg. Only one study used a implantable device whose electrical stimulus is released directly on the nerve by electrodes placed under the layer that surrounds the nerve. All studies compared MN versus ankle‐foot orthosis (AFO), that is an assistive device usually made of a rigid material and placed externally on the lower leg to hold the foot and ankle to prevent the foot dropping. 
