Do people with type 1 diabetes mellitus benefit from using a different type of insulin as their basal insulin? 
Background 
Diabetes is a condition that causes a person's blood sugar (glucose) level to become too high. Insulin is a hormone that is released by the pancreas (a small organ behind the stomach) which controls the blood levels of glucose. In people with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) the pancreas does not produce any insulin, so the person has to inject insulin to control the glucose levels and keep well. The goal of insulin therapy is to provide insulin that mimics physiologic insulin secretion. Insulin is given by an injection under the skin (subcutaneous) by means of insulin syringes, insulin pens or insulin pumps. In order to control blood glucose levels in periods of fasting, basal or background insulin is needed. Basal insulin can be given by means of daily or twice‐daily injections of an intermediate‐acting or (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin. Basal insulin can be given as intermediate‐acting human neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin or as (ultra‐)long‐acting analogue insulin (synthetic insulin). Bolus insulin is taken at mealtime (prandial insulin) to control blood glucose levels following a meal and is given by means of short‐acting or rapid‐acting insulin. The aim for most people with T1DM is to achieve near‐normal blood glucose levels to avoid long‐term complications such as kidney and eye disease and to allow flexibility regarding time, type and amount of food intake. The major unwanted effect of insulin therapy is hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose) which can be severe. 
We wanted to find out whether one type of (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin compared with NPH insulin or another type of (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin is better for people with T1DM. The outcomes we were specifically interested in were death, health‐related quality of life, severe (night‐time) hypoglycaemia, serious unwanted events, non‐fatal complications of diabetes (heart attacks, strokes) and levels of glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) which is an indicator of long‐term glucose control. 
What did we look for? 
We searched medical databases and contacted pharmaceutical manufacturers and drug regulatory agencies for studies that:— were randomised controlled trials (medical studies where participants are put randomly into one of the treatment groups);— included people with T1DM;— compared one (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin with another (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin or NPH insulin;— lasted at least 24 weeks. 
