Gardening activity as a therapy for schizophrenia
Horticultural therapy is based on the therapeutic value of participating in garden activities such as growing fruit or vegetables and/or flowers. Gardening is thought to improve people's well‐being through being a recreational and sociable activity which may lead to improvements in people's thinking, new friendships and more positive emotions. The benefits of gardening can also apply to people with serious mental illness such as schizophrenia. Gardening reduces stress, which is important because stress can often lead to mental illness. Gardening is also hard work and a physical activity, and so motivates people with mental illness who often feel tired and apathetic. Weight gain is common for people with mental illness and gardening is good physical exercise. 
Since 5% to 15% of people with schizophrenia experience symptoms in spite of taking antipsychotic drugs and also because these drugs have debilitating side effects, horticultural therapy may be of value to these people. 
This review focuses on the effects of horticultural therapy for people with schizophrenia. An electronic search for relevant randomised trials was run in January 2013. Only one trial was included, it randomised a total of 24 people with schizophrenia to received either their standard care plus horticultural therapy or standard care only. The trial only lasted 2 weeks (10 consecutive days) with no long‐term follow‐up. There are few results and the quality of evidence was rated by the review authors to be very low quality. Some of the information from this one study favoured horticultural therapy but there is insufficient evidence to draw any conclusions on benefits or harms of horticultural therapy for people with schizophrenia. More large, better conducted and reported trials are required to determine the effectiveness and benefits of horticultural therapy. 
This plain language summary has been written by a consumer Ben Gray, Service User and Service User Expert, Rethink Mental Illness. 
