Dialysate sodium levels for chronic haemodialysis
What is the issue? 
Kidneys control salt and water balance in the body by the regulation of urine production. When kidneys no longer work, urine production ceases or becomes insufficient and salt and water balance must be managed using dialysis. Doctors looking after haemodialysis patients must select an appropriate amount of sodium to use in the dialysis fluids that are used to wash the patient's blood. If the sodium level in these fluids is too high, this can lead to the patient feeling thirsty after treatment, drinking too much more water and becoming fluid overloaded by the time the next treatment is due, which can cause heart damage. On the other hand, if the sodium level is too low in dialysis fluids, this will cause the patient to have cramps and drops in blood pressure, which is uncomfortable and potentially also a cause heart damage. The "right" sodium level for dialysis fluid is unknown. 
What did we do? 
We combined all studies of people treated with haemodialysis where outcomes were compared between people receiving low sodium in their dialysis fluid and those receiving higher levels. 
What did we find? 
We found 12 studies comparing low sodium levels in dialysis fluid with neutral or high sodium levels. Many studies were performed prior to 2000, studying technology and patients that are not always relevant today. Most were short‐term studies, only lasting a few weeks. Our main findings in these studies were; that low sodium in dialysis fluid improves blood pressure and reduces gain of salt and water in between dialysis treatments, which are probably good things, but increases the number of cramps and low blood pressure events experienced by patients during dialysis, which are definitely bad things. The studies did not provide enough information about the participating patients for us to know which patients might benefit from low sodium dialysis fluid, and which patients might instead be harmed. The studies did not provide definitive information on the effect of low sodium dialysis fluids on heart structure and function, or patient quality of life and survival. 
