Group cognitive behavioural therapy for schizophrenia
Review question 
Is group cognitive behavioural therapy (talking therapy) that targets psychoses (CBTp) more effective than standard care (the care a person would normally receive) or other forms of talking therapies (for example, counselling, supportive therapy; either group or individual) for people with schizophrenia? 
What is schizophrenia? 
Schizophrenia is a disabling serious mental illness. It is characterised by delusions (bizarre beliefs), hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that are not there), negative symptoms (social withdrawal, apathy) and disorganised behaviour. Medications known as antipsychotics are the main treatment but are not always very effective at helping with the negative symptoms of schizophrenia. CBTp has been suggested as a useful add‐on treatment to medication for people with mental illness, but evidence for its effectiveness for people with schizophrenia is uncertain. CBTp is usually an individual therapy but can also be delivered to a group of people, which may be more cost‐effective. It is important to find out if group CBTp for people with schizophrenia is effective and acceptable. 
What did we do? 
The Information Specialist of Cochrane Schizophrenia ran an electronic search of their specialised register up to 10 February 2021 for clinical trials that randomised group CBTp versus standard care or other psychosocial therapies (either group or individual) in people with schizophrenia. 
What did we find? 
We found 24 studies involving 1900 participants that met the review requirements and provided usable data. All studies compared group CBTp with standard care. Our evidence suggests there is no substantial difference between group CBTp and standard care or other psychosocial interventions in terms of numbers of participants leaving the study early. Group CBTp may be better than standard care or other psychosocial interventions for overall mental state for total symptoms of schizophrenia. Group CBTp seems to show no difference on positive and negative symptoms of schizophrenia compared to standard care or other psychosocial interventions. Group CBTp seems to be better than standard care or other psychosocial interventions on global functioning. There were no real differences between treatment groups for number of participants hospitalised for group CBTp compared to standard care or other psychosocial interventions.  
Conclusions 
Group CBTp seems to be better than standard care or other psychosocial interventions on total symptoms of schizophrenia and global functioning. 
