Behavioural activation therapy for depression in adults
Review question 
In this Cochrane review, we wanted to find out how well behavioural activation therapy works for depression in adults. 
Why this is important 
Depression is a common mental health problem that can cause a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest in people, activities, and things that were once enjoyable. A person with depression may feel tearful, irritable, or tired most of the time, and may have problems with sleep, concentration, and memory. These and other symptoms can make daily life more difficult than usual. 
Treatments for depression include medications (antidepressants) and psychological therapies (talking therapies). Behavioural activation is a type of psychological therapy that encourages a person to develop or get back into activities which are meaningful to them. The therapy involved scheduling activities and monitoring behaviours and looking at specific situations where changing these behaviours and activities may be helpful. A therapist may support people in person, over the phone, or online, usually over multiple sessions. 
It is important to know whether behavioural activation could be an effective and acceptable treatment to offer to people with depression. 
What we did 
In January 2020, we searched for studies of behavioural activation therapy for depression in adults (aged over 18 years). We looked for randomised controlled trials, in which treatments were given to study participants at random; these studies give the most reliable evidence. 
We included 53 studies involving 5495 participants. The studies compared behavioural activation with no treatment, standard or usual care, a dummy treatment (placebo), taking medications, being on a waiting list for treatment, or other psychotherapies (cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT), third‐wave CBT, humanistic therapy, psychodynamic therapy, and integrative therapy). 
The studies were conducted in 14 countries; most were conducted in the USA (27 studies). Most studies lasted from four to 16 weeks. 
The outcomes we focussed on were how well the treatments worked and whether they were acceptable to participants. How well treatments worked (efficacy) was measured by the number of people who responded well to treatment or no longer met criteria for depression at the end of treatment. Acceptability was measured by counting how many people dropped out during the study. 
What did we find? 
Behavioural activation may treat depression better than receiving usual care. We were uncertain whether behavioural activation worked better than medication or being on a waiting list, and we found no evidence for this outcome comparing behavioural activation to no treatment or placebo treatment. 
