Impact of offering incentives in exchange for attending prenatal care visits on maternal and neonatal health outcomes 
Getting care from a provider during a woman's pregnancy is important to try to ensure the best pregnancy outcomes. Early and regular prenatal care can increase the chances of having a healthy baby. However, many women begin prenatal care late in the pregnancy or do not attend all of their scheduled visits. This can make it difficult for providers to help avert problems in pregnancy. In an effort to encourage pregnant women to begin prenatal care early in the pregnancy and to attend all of their visits, some health systems and providers offer incentives to patients to attend prenatal care. These incentives may be monetary, items such as coupons or car seats, or may be for services. 
This review's objective was to find out if offering incentives is an effective way to improve the beginning of prenatal care early in pregnancy and the attendance at all scheduled prenatal visits. We searched for trials on 31 January 2015 and found a total of five trials, involving 11,935 pregnancies, but only 1893 pregnancies contributed data towards this review. Overall, the trials were at a moderate risk of bias. Incentives in these studies included cash, gift card, baby carrier, baby blanket and taxicab voucher. 
The studies found did not report on the main outcomes that we wanted to evaluate in this review: preterm delivery, small babies, or deaths of the babies. 
One study found that women receiving incentives were more likely to attend frequent prenatal visits during their pregnancy. One study indicated that women who received incentives were more likely to obtain adequate quality prenatal care defined as undergoing a certain number of procedures such as testing blood sugar or blood pressure, vaccinations and counseling about breastfeeding and birth control. One study found that women who received incentives were no more likely to begin prenatal care early in pregnancy. One study found that women receiving incentives were somewhat more likely to be delivered by cesarean section. There were two studies that examined likelihood of returning for postpartum care after delivery and their combined results indicated that women who received incentives were no more likely to return for postpartum care ‐ these two studies had different results. In one of the studies, women who received non‐cash incentives were more likely to return for postpartum care than those who did not receive incentive. Whereas, in other study, women who received cash incentives were less likely to return for postpartum care than those who did not receive incentive. 
Overall, the included studies were of moderate risk of bias. Three of the studies adequately described the process of selecting and randomizing women, while two of the studies did not describe this process in detail. All of the studies allowed pregnant women to know whether they were in the treatment group or placebo group. Four of the studies allowed those assessing outcomes to know whether women were in the treatment group or placebo group. All five studies reported results completely and disclosed incomplete data or number of participants who dropped out of the study. Two of the studies reported or analyzed results in a manner different from how they originally planned, while the other three reported results consistent with their plan. No other sources of bias were found. Two of the five studies which accounted for the majority of women in this review were conducted in rural, low‐income, overwhelmingly Hispanic communities in Central America. Therefore, the findings of this review may not accurately predict what would happen if similar studies were performed in developed countries with more ethnic and economic diversity. There is a need for more, high‐quality studies to evaluate the impact of offering incentives to pregnant women for attending prenatal care visits and the effects of this on the health and wellbeing of the mother and her baby. 
