Tracheal suction at birth in non‐vigorous neonates born through meconium‐stained amniotic fluid 
Review question 
To determine the efficacy of clearing the trachea (windpipe) of meconium by introducing a tube into the windpipe (intubation), and suction at birth in babies who are born through the meconium‐stained amniotic fluid and are depressed (identified by not breathing or limp or low heart rate) at birth. 
Background 
Meconium is a thick green tar‐like substance, that lines a baby's intestines during pregnancy. Meconium contains various intestinal enzymes and substances (blood, skin cells, etc.) ingested by the foetus. Meconium is usually first passed within 24 hours after birth. However, in certain circumstances when blood or oxygen supply to the foetus is compromised or the pregnancy extends beyond the normal period of 40 weeks, meconium passage may occur before birth. Once passed, meconium may be breathed (aspirated) in from amniotic fluid into the airways either before birth or with the first few breaths after birth. This can cause airway obstruction and inflammation of lung tissue from toxins (chemical pneumonia). Nearly 10% to 25% of births are complicated by meconium passage before birth and of these, 5% to 12% of neonates develop meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). MAS can present with varying degrees of severity, from mild distress to life‐threatening respiratory failure. One approach to prevent MAS is to identify babies who are depressed at birth, and clear the meconium from the airway before the baby takes their first breath. In this process, an endotracheal tube is inserted into the upper trachea and pulled out while the trachea is being suctioned. However, this may not prevent MAS if the baby has already aspirated meconium before being born. In addition, most of the babies who are candidates for this intervention need prompt resuscitation, and conducting tracheal suction has the potential to cause harm by delaying the initiation of artificial breaths.  
Study characteristics 
We included four studies (581 neonates) conducted in hospitals in India. Three trials included neonates born at and beyond term gestation, whereas one included neonates born at and beyond 34 weeks of gestation.  All four studies identified eligible neonates by the presence of at least one of the following at birth: no breathing or crying, poor muscle tone, and heart rate less than 100 beats per minute. The intervention consisted of tracheal suction at the time of birth with an intent to clear the trachea of meconium before regular breathing efforts began. Neonates in the control group were resuscitated at birth with no effort made to clear the trachea of meconium. 
The search was up‐to‐date to 25 November 2020.
Key results 
We are uncertain as to the effect of tracheal suction in reducing the risk of MAS. For every 1000 neonates in whom tracheal suction is done, MAS may be observed in 70 fewer to 80 more neonates. Similarly, we are uncertain as to the effect of tracheal suction on the risk of death before discharge from the hospital (22 fewer to 92 more per 1000 neonates). We are also uncertain as to the effect of tracheal suction on the risks of other outcomes, such as the need for advanced resuscitation measures; encephalopathy (brain damage or disease) due to asphyxia (a lack of oxygen that results in unconsciousness and often death); the need for or duration of mechanical ventilation; the need for non‐invasive respiratory support (a mask); duration of oxygen therapy; and duration of hospitalisation. These and other complications of MAS were not different with or without tracheal suction. 
Certainty of evidence 
There was very low certainty evidence from the four studies included in this review. Firstly, in most of the studies, the healthcare workers who provided the clinical care or decided the presence of outcomes were aware of the study group assignment of the babies, thus increasing the risk of bias. Secondly, due to the small size of the studies and the low incidences of the outcomes, we had low confidence in ruling out clinically important benefits or harms when tracheal suction was performed. One study awaits classification and could not be included in the review. More research from well‐conducted large trials is needed to conclusively answer the research question.  
