PET‐CT scanning to assess the spread of non‐small cell lung cancer within the chest
In the absence of distant metastasis, treatment options for non‐small cell lung cancer depend on how much the disease has spread to the different lymph nodes within the chest, that is, the stage of the disease. If the cancer has not spread beyond the nearest (N1) lymph nodes, surgery is often the treatment of choice. Other treatment options for these patients include treatment with either radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or both. Planning the optimal treatment is therefore critically dependent on accurate staging of the disease. PET‐CT scanning is a non‐invasive method of establishing the spread of NSCLC within the chest and elsewhere in the body, which is increasingly available and used by lung cancer multi‐disciplinary teams. Although the non‐invasive nature of PET‐CT constitutes one of the major advantages of the test, PET‐CT may be suboptimal in detecting malignancy in normal‐sized lymph nodes and in ruling out malignancy in patients with coexisting inflammatory or infectious diseases. We examined the accuracy of PET‐CT scanning in establishing the spread of cancer in patients with suspected or confirmed NSCLC that is potentially suitable for surgical treatment with curative intent. 
We included 45 studies, and based on the criteria for a positive PET‐CT scan, we performed two main analyses. In the 18 studies (2823 participants) in the Activity > background group, PET‐CT was found to accurately identify 77.4% (95% CI 65.3 to 86.1) of the participants with NSCLC spread beyond the N1 nodes and 90.1% (95% CI 85.3 to 93.5) of the participants without spread beyond the N1 nodes. In the 12 studies (1656 participants) in the SUVmax of ≥ 2.5 group, PET‐CT accurately identified 81.3% (95% CI 70.2 to 88.9) of the participants with spread beyond the N1 nodes and 79.4% (95% CI 70 to 86.5) of the participants without spread beyond the N1 nodes. However, the results varied a lot between the studies in each analysis, and the quality and size of the studies themselves, country of study origin, percentage of participants with adenocarcinoma, FDG dose, and type of PET‐CT scanner influenced the results. We believe that the results of this review show that the accuracy of PET‐CT is insufficient to allow management based on PET‐CT alone. 
