Pregabalin for treating fibromyalgia pain in adults
Bottom line 
We found high quality evidence that pregabalin at daily doses of 300 to 600 mg produces a large fall in pain in about 1 in 10 people with moderate or severe pain from fibromyalgia. Pain reduction comes with improvements in other symptoms, in quality of life, and in ability to function. 
Background 
Fibromyalgia is characterised by persistent, widespread pain and tenderness, sleep problems, and fatigue. Common pain‐relieving medicines such as paracetamol and ibuprofen are not usually considered effective. Medicines used to treat epilepsy or depression can be effective in some people with fibromyalgia and other forms of chronic (persistent, long‐lasting) pain where there may be nerve damage. Pregabalin is an antiepileptic licensed to treat fibromyalgia in some parts of the world, in particular the USA. 
This review is an update of one originally published in 2009, which examined the effects of pregabalin on all types of pain. In this review we have only examined fibromyalgia pain. The earlier review showed that pregabalin worked in a small proportion of people with fibromyalgia. This is the same as all other fibromyalgia treatments to date, and for chronic pain conditions generally. Our definition of 'worked' involved both a high level of pain relief and being able to take the medication over a longer period without intolerable side effects. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for studies that looked at the effects of pregabalin in adults with fibromyalgia who had moderate or severe pain. The treatment had to last at least eight weeks. The evidence is current to March 2016. 
Eight studies satisfied the inclusion criteria, including three new studies for this update. Five studies randomised 3283 participants to immediate treatment with pregabalin or placebo. Two studies identified 687 out of 1492 participants who had a good pain response and could take the medicine, and then randomised them to continued treatment with pregabalin or placebo. Study quality was good. One other had no useful data. 
Key results 
High quality evidence showed that 1 in 10 people with moderate or severe fibromyalgia pain reported a large fall in pain by a third to a half over 12 to 26 weeks. This is an outcome that people with fibromyalgia consider to be useful. The dose of pregabalin was 300 to 600 mg daily. 
