Oral versus inhaled antibiotics for people with bronchiectasis
Review question 
We wished to know whether oral antibiotics (taken by mouth) or inhaled antibiotics are more effective for reducing the duration and frequency of infective episodes of bronchiectasis, admissions to hospital and side effects, as well as reducing the risk of chest infections not responding to treatment with antibiotics. 
Background 
Bronchiectasis is a long‐term incurable condition where people get repeated bacterial chest infections that lead to frequent cough, breathlessness and mucus production. These often occur three or more times a year and require treatment with antibiotics, either short‐term for the presenting chest infection, or long‐term to prevent chest infections recurring. It was once thought to be an uncommon disease but recent figures show that up to 5 people in every 1000 may have bronchiectasis and the death rate for people with the condition may be more than twice that of the general population. 
Antibiotics are commonly used to treat chest infections in people with bronchiectasis, to eliminate the specific types of bacteria that cause the infection. Some antibiotics are more effective against particular types of bacteria compared to others, and these different types of bacteria can develop resistance to treatment with antibiotics, making them less effective and reducing the subsequent choice of antibiotic. Antibiotics can also be given to people in different ways, such as by mouth in pill form or breathed in as an inhalation. 
We do not currently know which method of administering antibiotics, orally or by inhalation, is the most effective for treating recurrent chest infections in terms of eliminating the bacteria, reducing the chances of people developing resistance to antibiotics and reducing the symptoms of bronchiectasis. 
We searched for all the published and unpublished available evidence, up until March 2018, which compared orally administered antibiotics versus inhaled antibiotics. 
Study characteristics 
While there have been a few studies investigating the benefits of antibiotics for people with bronchiectasis, none have compared orally administered antibiotics with inhaled antibiotics. 
Quality of the evidence 
There is no high‐quality evidence available to determine whether oral or inhaled antibiotics are more helpful for people with bronchiectasis. More research studies are needed to evaluate the effectiveness of oral antibiotics compared to inhaled antibiotics for reducing the rate of chest infections and the chances of developing resistance to antibiotic therapy. 
