The relative safety and effectiveness of different epoetin drugs for treating anaemia in people with chronic kidney disease 
Several drugs are available to treat anaemia for people who have kidney disease but whether these drugs are similar or different in their ability to improve symptoms of anaemia, such as tiredness and breathlessness, and whether they are equally safe based on their risks of causing a stroke or a heart attack, is not clear. This is because research studies that compare the effects of one drug directly with another are not common. We have found 56 studies that measure the safety and how these drugs help to improve how patients who have kidney disease feel, function and survive that have involved 15,596 people. Our last search of the literature was in February 2014. 
We are somewhat confident that four of the drugs (epoetin alfa, epoetin beta, darbepoetin beta and methoxy polyethylene glycol‐epoetin beta) are better than a placebo injection to prevent patients needing to have a blood transfusion. We are less certain that biosimilar drugs are better than placebo to help patients avoid a blood transfusion. 
All erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents cause high blood pressure, but we cannot be very sure if biosimilar products have effects on blood pressure. We cannot be confident in the other important effects of these drugs ‐ we are not sure whether the drugs are similar or different in their effects on the chances of death, a heart attack or stroke; the risk of having a clot in a fistula or vascular catheter needed for dialysis; or the chances of needing dialysis for people who have milder kidney disease. We are unsure whether the different drugs are better at improving symptoms such as tiredness or breathlessness than others as the available research studies generally do not measure these aspects of treatment very well. 
Overall, whether different drugs are safer or better at treating symptoms of anaemia for people with kidney disease is poorly known. It is likely that most if not all the drugs prevent the need for a patient to require a blood transfusion. The choice of which drug to use to treat anaemia when a patient has kidney disease can be decided between patients and health professionals based on shared preferences for how frequently the drug is given and considering drug costs and availability. 
