Mycophenolic acid versus azathioprine as primary immunosuppression for kidney transplant recipients 
After kidney transplantation, patients receive a combination of immunosuppressive medications to prevent rejection of the transplanted kidney. These regimens usually contain a calcineurin‐inhibitor (tacrolimus or cyclosporin A), corticosteroids and an antiproliferative agent (mycophenolic acid (MPA), e.g. mycophenolate mofetil (MMF), or azathioprine (AZA)). MPA is considered to be of stronger immunosuppressive potency than AZA, but the benefits on survival of the graft and its safe use over a long period of time are insufficiently understood. 
In this systematic review, we compared the efficacy and safety of MPA versus AZA in randomised controlled trials (RCTs) when given as part of the immunosuppressive regimen immediately after kidney transplantation. 
Searches to 21 September 2015 identified 23 studies in which 3301 patients were treated with MPA (all studies used MMF) or AZA. Methodological quality of the studies was limited, e.g. only in two RCTs was the study medication administered in a blinded fashion. 
MMF was more effective than AZA for reducing the risk of graft loss (by approximately 20%) and acute rejection (by approximately 30%). No difference in mortality was observed. Moreover, graft function appeared to be similar in both treatments. 
When drugs are given to suppress the immune system, this can result in serious side effects such as infections and malignancies. The data on adverse events was limited by relatively short follow up in the studies as some of these side effects occur after several years of treatment. Furthermore, the studies did not focus on these harms and did not use harmonised diagnostic criteria. The incidence of cytomegalovirus infections did not differ between MMF and AZA, but there was a 1.7‐fold increased risk for the more severe, tissue‐invasive cytomegalovirus disease in MMF‐treated patients. Information on malignancies was reported only in five studies; therefore no robust conclusions can be drawn. Gastrointestinal side effects (e.g. nausea, diarrhoea) were more common with MMF‐treatment, whereas bone marrow suppression (e.g. thrombocytopenia) and elevated liver enzymes were observed more frequently in AZA treated patients. 
In general, evidence for efficacy outcomes is of high quality and can be seen as considerably robust, but there is less certainty on aspects of safety. Therefore, caregivers should balance potential benefits and harms of MMF and AZA according to individual patient's risks and preferences. Physicians need to individualise the decision between these agents as components of the immunosuppressive regimen. 
