Glasses to prevent eye misalignment (strabismus) in far‐sighted children
What was the aim of this review? To find out if wearing eyeglasses by far‐sighted children will prevent crossed eyes (strabismus) and associated effects from developing. 
Key messages The evidence does not currently support the conclusion that eyeglasses prevent strabismus in far‐sighted children, or that wearing glasses prevents lazy‐eye (amblyopia). This evidence was limited due to some parts of the studies not being done as well as they could and small number of study participants. 
What was studied in the review? Infants typically are born far‐sighted, meaning they only have clear vision at distance. As children grow, their eyes also grow to where they can see clearly at both near and far distances. About 9% of children remain very far‐sighted. Being far‐sighted means that to focus on something up close the child must use a great deal of effort. This effort can cause symptoms, such as headaches, seeing double, and eyestrain, as well as cause difficulty doing things up close, such as reading. Children that remain far‐sighted are more likely than children with normal vision to develop crossed eyes (strabismus), which may happen in 3.5% to 5.7% of children, or 10% to 20% of children with high levels of far‐sightedness. Strabismus makes it difficult for the eyes to work together to focus. It is thought that about 50% of children with strabismus develop amblyopia, meaning a child cannot get clear vision even when using glasses. Depth perception, or how two things are related to each other in space, is often affected as well. Doctors often prescribe eyeglasses to prevent the development of strabismus and these other associated problems in far‐sighted children, but it is unclear whether the glasses themselves may prevent the eyes from growing normally.  
What were the main results of the review? We identified results from four randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) to determine whether eyeglasses were successful in preventing strabismus in far‐sighted infants compared with no eyeglasses. The trials enrolled infants aged six months to less than 36 months and measured outcomes between the ages of three and four years. The four trials enrolled 985 infants. We found unclear evidence of a difference between the two groups in how often strabismus occurred over the follow‐up period. We also found unclear evidence on whether the prescription of eyeglasses affected depth perception or prevented eyes from developing naturally to clear vision. We have low confidence in these findings because some parts of the studies were not done well and the small number of children in the studies. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? December 2018. 
