Methotrexate for treating rheumatoid arthritis
We looked at studies until November 2013 on the effect of receiving methotrexate alone compared to placebo (no treatment) over 12 to 52 weeks in 732 people with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Key findings 
In the short term treatment of people with rheumatoid arthritis, methotrexate:
‐ improves pain, function and other symptoms;
‐ probably reduces joint damage as seen on the x‐ray.
Precise information about side effects and complications was not always available. Common side effects may include nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea, loss of appetite, stomach pain, and sores on lips, mouth or throat. Rare complications may include birth defects, kidney, lung and liver problems. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what is methotrexate? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints making your joints swollen, stiff and painful. Treatments aim to decrease symptoms and improve your ability to move. 
Methotrexate is one of a group of medications called disease‐modifying antirheumatic drugs (DMARDs) and it is the most common treatment for rheumatoid arthritis. Methotrexate helps prevent further permanent damage that can happen if rheumatoid arthritis is not treated. 
What happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take methotrexate alone? 
ACR 50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability)  ‐ 15 more people out of 100 experienced major improvement in the symptoms of their rheumatoid arthritis after 12 months with methotrexate when compared to placebo (15% absolute improvement). ‐ 23 people out of 100 who took methotrexate alone experienced major improvement. ‐ 8 people out of 100 who took a placebo experienced major improvement. 
Remission or absence of active disease 
In people who took either placebo or methotrexate, none had absence of active disease.
Disability (lower scores mean lower disability) 
‐ People who took methotrexate rated their disability to be 0.27 points lower on a scale of 0 to 3 after 3 to 12 months with methotrexate when compared to placebo (9% absolute improvement). ‐ People who took methotrexate rated their disability to be between 0.39 and 1.04. ‐ People who took placebo rated their disability to be between 0.53 and 1.34. 
Quality of life ‐ physical component (ability to perform physical activities at least 20% better) 
‐ 12 more people out of 100 perceived their ability to perform physical activities at least 20% better after 12 months with methotrexate alone compared to placebo (12% absolute improvement). ‐ 39 people out of 100 who took methotrexate alone perceived their ability to perform physical activities at least 20% better. ‐ 27 people out of 100 who took a placebo perceived their ability to perform physical activities at least 20% better. 
Quality of life ‐ mental component 
‐ 5 more people out of 100 perceived their mental well‐being better after 12 months with methotrexate alone compared to placebo (5% absolute improvement). ‐ 26 people out of 100 who took methotrexate alone perceived their mental well‐being better. ‐ 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo perceived their mental well‐being better. 
X‐rays of the joints  ‐ 8 more people out of 100 had less x‐ray damage to joints measured by increase in erosion scores of more than 3 units on a scale ranging from 0 to 448 in people who took methotrexate compared to placebo after 12 months (8% absolute reduction). ‐ 4 people out of 100 who took methotrexate alone had increased damage to joints measured by x‐ray. ‐12 people out of 100 who took a placebo had increase damage to joints measured by x‐ray. 
Discontinuations due to adverse events (side effects and complications)  ‐ 9 more people out of 100 discontinued methotrexate due to adverse events after 3 to 12 months compared to placebo (9% absolute withdrawals). ‐ 16 people out of 100 who took methotrexate alone discontinued methotrexate due to adverse events. ‐ 8 people out of 100 who took a placebo discontinued placebo due to adverse events. 
