Effect of nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory medicines on kidney function in patients with normal kidney function undergoing surgery 
What is the issue? 
Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) offer effective pain relief following surgery. Acute kidney injury (AKI) is the rapid loss of kidney function. It is associated with high death rate. NSAIDs can lead to AKI in up to 5% of patients using them. This is increased when there are other stresses placed on the kidney such as surgery. It is therefore important to establish whether these drugs are safe to use as pain relief in patients undergoing surgery. The aim of the review was to examine whether NSAIDs lead to increased rates of AKI in patients with normal kidney function undergoing surgery. We also aimed to examine whether NSAIDs were associated with higher death rates, increased length of hospital stay and need for dialysis. 
What did we do? 
We updated a previous review searching the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant Specialised Register until 4 January 2018 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing NSAIDs with placebo in patients with normal kidney function undergoing surgery. 
What did we find? 
We identified 26 studies studying 8835 participants. Risk of bias was high in 17, unclear in six studies and low in three studies. The use NSAIDs had uncertain effects on the incidence of AKI compared to placebo. Quality of evidence was very low due to inconsistencies between the two studies. One study was stopped early by the data monitoring committee due to increased rates of AKI in the NSAID group and both of these studies examined much lower doses of NSAIDs than would usually be used for pain relief. NSAIDs may slightly increase serum creatinine (a marker of kidney function which rises in kidney failure) compared with placebo. Quality of evidence was low. These studies only included fit, healthy patients. No reliable conclusions could be drawn from the studies examining urine output due to the different methods of measuring this. It is uncertain whether the use of NSAIDs leads to an increased need for renal replacement therapy (dialysis), more deaths, or increased length of hospital stay. 
Conclusions 
NSAIDs have uncertain effects on the rates of AKI when used in patients with normal kidney function following surgery. It is uncertain whether NSAIDs increase the need for dialysis. The available data therefore does not confirm the safety of NSAIDs in patients undergoing surgery. Further studies including patients with other health problems are required. 
