Prevention of rebleeding from enlarged veins in the food pipe (oesophagus) resulting from advanced liver disease 
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review?To find out the best available preventive treatment for repeated bleeding from oesophageal varices (enlarged veins in the food pipe) in people with advanced liver disease (liver cirrhosis, or late‐stage scarring of the liver with complications). People with cirrhosis who had previously bled from oesophageal varices are at significant risk of death from another episode of bleeding. Therefore, it is important to provide preventive treatment to prevent rebleeding in such people, but the benefits and harms of different treatments available are currently unclear. The authors of this review collected and analysed all relevant randomised clinical trials with the aim of finding out the best treatment. They found 48 randomised clinical trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature searchDecember 2019 
Key messagesNone of the studies were conducted without flaws, and because of this, there is moderate to very high uncertainty in the findings of this review. Approximately one in five trial participants with cirrhosis who received preventive treatment after control of initial bleeding from oesophageal varices died within five years of treatment with sclerotherapy. 
What was studied in the review?This review looked at adults of any sex, age, and ethnic origin, with advanced liver disease due to various causes and previous bleeding from oesophageal varices. Participants were given different treatments for preventing further bleeding oesophageal varices. The authors excluded studies in people who had bleeding from the stomach, who had no previous bleeding from the oesophageal varices, those who failed to respond to another treatment before study entry, and those who had liver transplantation previously. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 40 to 63 years. The treatments used in the trials included endoscopic sclerotherapy (injecting into the enlarged veins by looking through a tube inserted through the mouth), variceal band ligation (inserting bands around the dilated veins by seeing through a tube inserted through the mouth), beta‐blockers (drugs that slow the heart and decrease the force of heart pumping resulting in decrease pressure in the blood vessels), and TIPS (transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt; an artificial channel that connects the different blood vessels that carry oxygen‐depleted blood (venous system)) within the liver to reduce the pressure built‐up in the portal venous system, one of the two venous systems draining the liver), portocaval shunt (performing surgery to create the artificial channel described for TIPS) among others. The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, recurrence of bleeding, and development of other complications of advanced liver disease.What were the main results of the review?The 48 studies included a small number of participants (3526 participants). Study data were sparse. Forty‐six studies with 3442 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of the trial participants ranged from two months to five years. 
