Positioning for hospitalised infants and children with acute respiratory distress
Review question 
We investigated whether there was a difference in the outcomes for infants and young children with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) on artificial ventilation who were positioned lying on their abdomen (the prone position), compared to lying on their back (the supine position), or on their side. 
Background 
ARDS is one of the most frequent causes of hospitalisation and death in infants and young children globally. When children with severe respiratory distress are hospitalised, treatment may include additional oxygen, with or without assisted ventilation. These attempts to increase oxygenation may damage the lungs. Infants and children with respiratory distress placed in particular positions may be more comfortable, breathe more easily, and have better outcomes. However, different positions may also increase the risk of adverse outcomes, such as obstruction of the endotracheal tube (the tube that connects the person to a ventilator), and accidental extubation (removal of the tube). To find out if this was the case, we searched the literature to identify randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs comparing two or more body positions for managing infants and children hospitalised with ARDS. 
Search date 
Our evidence is current to 26 July 2021.
Study characteristics 
We included six trials, with a total of 198 participants aged from four weeks to 16 years. The majority were on mechanical ventilators. The timing of interventions ranged from 15 minutes after the child had been settled in a hospital bed, to a maximum of seven days over the duration of the intervention. Only a small number (n = 15) of the children did not have their breathing supported by a ventilator. 
Study funding source 
The trials included in this review were supported by public agencies.
Key results 
Lying on their abdomen appeared to improve the use of oxygen (oxygenation index is the need for additional oxygen relative to the child’s oxygen level) compared to lying on their back. This finding was based on data from three trials with 141 children. Only one trial with 102 children reported adverse effects, which did not differ between the two positions. One trial with 50 children compared lying on their back to other positions, and was not able to show consistent differences in blood oxygenation. There is not enough information to make any conclusions about the benefits and harms of any position in infants and children with acute respiratory distress. 
