Effectiveness and safety of devices designed to close femoral artery puncture sites
Background  
Endovascular procedures require access to the inside of an artery. A small hole is made in the artery at the groin, and a catheter is guided along to the site of interest. Once the procedure is complete, the hole in the artery must be closed and the bleeding stopped (haemostasis). Traditionally, the main method of closing the artery is compression, during which up to 30 minutes of manual pressure or mechanical clamps is applied directly to the patient's groin. This manual pressure can be painful and requires up to eight hours of bedrest. The process of closing the artery can lead to complications such as damage to the artery and bleeding, ranging from minor to life‐threatening. Pressure applied to the artery also affects the nearby vein and may cause blood clots (deep vein thrombosis). Vascular closure devices (VCDs) are designed to close the hole and stop bleeding. VCDs were developed in the 1990s in an attempt to reduce the time to stop bleeding, to enable earlier walking after a procedure and to improve patient comfort. Four main types of VCDs are based on the material used: collagen plugs, suture‐based, disc‐based and metal clips. No consensus has been reached on the effectiveness of VCDs in reducing procedure time, length of stay or time to mobilisation, and it is unknown whether they confer a cost benefit when compared with compression. 
Study characteristics  
This review measures the effectiveness and safety of these VCDs compared with one other and with manual or mechanical compression. After searching for relevant studies, we found 52 studies with a combined total of 19,192 participants (current until April 2015). Studies compared different VCDs with manual or mechanical compression and/or with one other. The main measures of effectiveness were time to haemostasis and time to mobilisation. The main safety outcomes included adverse events such as bleeding, arterial damage, infection and development of clots in the adjacent vein. 
