Statins for aortic valve stenosis
Review question 
What is the evidence regarding the effect of statins in people suffering from aortic valve stenosis? 
Background 
The heart is responsible for pumping blood throughout the body. It has four valves that control the blood flow within it. One of the valves is the aortic valve that controls the flow of blood from the left ventricle chamber to the body. Aortic valve stenosis is a disease characterised by the narrowing of this valve. This is the most common type of valvular heart disease in the USA and Europe. Its incidence rises with age and 2% to 7% of adults over 65 years old have aortic valve stenosis. Aortic valve stenosis is considered similar to atherosclerotic disease and it is known to have a long asymptomatic period for several decades. When it manifests clinically, symptoms such as syncope (brief lapse of consciousness), angina and dyspnoea (shortness of breath) may lead to death. Some prospective and retrospective trials have shown that statins can delay the progression of aortic valve stenosis. Statins are considered very useful drugs to lower high cholesterol. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current up to 24 November 2015. We searched electronic databases for reports of randomised controlled trials comparing statins alone or in combination with other types of lipid‐lowering drugs in the treatment of aortic valve stenosis. 
Key results 
We evaluated the severity of aortic valve stenosis according to the following echocardiographic criteria: mean pressure gradient, valve area and aortic jet velocity. We also evaluated freedom from valve replacement and death from cardiovascular cause. There were no differences in effect for mean pressure gradient, valve area, freedom from valve replacement and death from cardiovascular cause in the statin group when compared with the placebo group. We were not able to conduct a meta‐analysis to assess the aortic jet velocity as only one study analysed this outcome. We also checked the safety of statins by analysing other adverse events among them muscle pain. Muscle pain is the most prevalent adverse event that can limit the use of statin. Muscle pain did not differ in the statin group when compared with the placebo group. Results of four randomised controlled trials with 2360 participants showed that statins did not delay the progression of aortic valve stenosis. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of the evidence quality ranged from moderate to very low across the different outcomes due to the limitations of the original studies. Included studies had at least one methodological limitation. 
Conclusions 
Based on the evidence in this review, there is uncertainty surrounding the effect of statins for aortic valve stenosis. These results give support to European and USA guidelines (2012 and 2014, respectively) that so far there is no clinical treatment option for aortic valve stenosis. An alternative might be to broaden the knowledge of the pathophysiology of this disease and include risk factors such as calcium, heredity, vitamin D, inflammation, oxidative stress, diabetes, hypertension among others that could contribute to aortic valve stenosis. High‐quality randomised trials to include risk factors for aortic valve stenosis are needed. 
