Electrocoagulation for liver metastases
Can electrocoagulation (high‐frequency electrical current) applied locally destroy cancer spread to the liver? 
Background 
When cancer spreads to other sites in the body, one of the most common sites is the liver. Besides cancer of the liver (primary, or original liver cancer), liver metastases (new cancers that develop in parts of the body besides the original cancer) from colorectal cancer are the most common cancers affecting the liver. More than half of the people whose cancer spread to the liver die from complications. Metastases in the liver can be destroyed using several different methods; one of these is electrocoagulation by diathermy. This method requires that a special electrode be placed in or near the cancer site. The electrode is used to transmit high‐frequency electrical currents, which generate high temperatures. This causes the proteins within the tissue to coagulate, or clot, thereby destroying it. The electrode is positioned by cutting into the abdomen with a laparotomy (open surgery) or a laparoscopy (keyhole surgery). 
Methods 
We looked for randomised clinical trials that assessed the effect of electrocoagulation by diathermy, administered alone or with another intervention, versus no intervention, or any other treatment, in people with cancer of any location that had spread to the liver. We looked at the effect of electrocoagulation on the risk of death, quality of life, adverse events (unwanted effects caused by the intervention), time to death, failure to clear liver metastases or recurrence of liver metastases, time to progression of liver metastases, and tumour response. 
Study characteristics 
We last searched for evidence on 6 October 2020. We only identified one randomised clinical trial. The trial allocated participants at random to four intervention groups: electrocoagulation (use of diathermy) alone; electrocoagulation plus dimethyl sulphoxide; electrocoagulation plus allopurinol; versus a control group, which only received a solution of allopurinol by mouth. The treatment was started on the fifth day after surgical removal of the sigmoid colon (last section of the bowel), and participants were followed for five years. The trial included 306 participants, but data were only collected on 223 participants. 
