'Hospital at home' services to avoid admission to hospital
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if providing healthcare in an admission avoidance hospital at home setting improves patient health outcomes and reduces cost to the health service. 
Key messages 
Admission avoidance hospital at home probably makes little or no difference to patient health outcomes, may increase the chances of living at home at six months' follow‐up, and may be slightly less expensive. However, the findings are not precise due to the small size of the studies included in the review. 
What was studied in this review? 
There continues to be more demand for acute hospital beds than there are beds. One way to reduce reliance on hospital beds is to provide people with acute health care at home, sometimes called 'hospital at home'. We systematically reviewed the literature on the effect of providing hospital at home services to avoid hospital admission for adults. 
What are the main results of this review? 
Admission avoidance hospital at home, with the option of transfer to hospital, may provide an effective alternative to inpatient care for a select group of elderly patients requiring hospital admission. We found 16 studies, of which six were identified for this update. Three studies recruited participants with chronic obstructive (lung) disease, two recruited participants recovering from a stroke, six recruited participants with a (sudden or short‐term) medical condition who were mainly elderly, and the remaining studies recruited participants with a mix of conditions. The studies showed that when compared to in‐hospital care, admission avoidance hospital at home services probably make little or no difference to patient health outcomes or to the likelihood of being taken to hospital, and may increase the chances of living at home at six months' follow‐up. Patients who receive care at home may be more satisfied than those who are in hospital, but it is not known how this type of health care affects the caregivers who support them. With respect to costs, it is uncertain if hospital at home services reduce or increase length of stay or cost to the health service; when the costs for caregivers are taken into account any difference in cost may disappear. 
How up to date is the review? 
The review authors searched for studies published up to March 2016.
