Corticosteroids for treating nerve damage in leprosy
Review question 
Are corticosteroids an effective treatment for nerve damage in leprosy?
Background 
Leprosy is a long‐term infectious disease. Leprosy bacteria cause damage to the skin and peripheral nerves (nerves outside the brain and spinal cord). This damage can stop nerves from working normally and cause disability. Corticosteroids, especially prednisolone, are often used to treat nerve damage in leprosy, but their long‐term effect is uncertain. 
Study characteristics 
We conducted a wide search for reports of clinical trials of treatments for nerve damage in leprosy. We found five clinical trials that met our criteria, involving 576 people with leprosy. Two of the included trials compared prednisolone with placebo. One of these trials, with 84 participants, recruited people who had mild abnormality of feeling of less than six months' duration and the other, with 95 participants, assessed treatment effects in people with abnormal nerve function of 6 to 24 months' duration. A third trial, with 334 participants, compared three 12‐month corticosteroid regimens for severe type 1 reactions. Type 1 reactions are episodes in which nerves become inflamed. The fourth trial (21 participants) compared a low dose of prednisone with a high dose of prednisone for people with damage to the ulnar nerve (a nerve in the arm). The fifth trial (42 participants) compared intravenous methylprednisolone and oral prednisolone with intravenous normal saline and oral prednisolone in people with a type 1 leprosy reaction or abnormal nerve function of no more than six months' duration. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
There was no important difference in improvement in nerve function between people treated with prednisolone or with placebo after one year, according to two trials. More people on a three‐month course of prednisolone failed to respond to treatment and required extra corticosteroids compared to people on either a high‐dose or a low‐dose regimen of five months' duration. The trials comparing corticosteroids with placebo and a trial comparing intravenous methylprednisolone and oral prednisolone with intravenous normal saline and oral prednisolone found no differences in the occurrence of adverse events between groups. We considered the quality of the evidence to be moderate to low. Although trials were well conducted and designed, they were largely small and did not always use proven measures to capture the effects of corticosteroids. 
The evidence in this review is up to date to June 2015.
