Transabdominal ultrasound and endoscopic ultrasound for detection of gallbladder polyps and differentiating between polyp types 
Background The gallbladder is an organ situated close to the liver. It stores bile, produced by the liver, before it is released to the small bowel for digestion. Abnormal growths inside the gallbladder, called 'gallbladder polyps', can develop. Most polyps (90%) are harmless; these are called pseudo polyps. The remaining are true polyps and can be cancerous, have cancer‐like parts (precancerous dysplastic polyps), or be benign, but they can potentially turn into cancer. Dysplastic polyps and cancerous polyps should be treated. Most people also treat benign polyps because of their potential to become cancerous. Treatment is done by removal of the gallbladder with the polyp within (cholecystectomy). To decide which patients should undergo surgery, it is important to (1) be certain that a gallbladder polyp is present, (2) know whether it is a true or pseudo polyp, and (3) whether a polyp is (pre)cancerous. Transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS), which uses ultrasound waves to differentiate between tissues, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), ultrasound attached to an endoscope introduced into the small intestine through the mouth and stomach, are the two tests currently used to detect gallbladder polyps and identify the type of gallbladder polyps. 
We performed a thorough search for studies that reported the accuracy (ability) of TAUS and EUS for the detection of gallbladder polyps and for differentiating between true and pseudo polyps, and between (pre)cancerous and benign polyps. 
Study characteristics A total of 16 studies were included. All studies reported on TAUS and EUS as separate tests and did not use a combination of TAUS and EUS. Six studies (16,260 participants) used TAUS for diagnosis of gallbladder polyps. No studies on the diagnosis of gallbladder polyps by EUS were found. Six studies (1,078 participants) used TAUS and three studies (209 participants) used EUS for differentiating between true and pseudo polyps. Four studies (1,009 participants) used TAUS and three studies (351 participants) used EUS for differentiating between (pre)cancerous and benign polyps. 
Key results In a general population of 1000 people (in which 6.4% have a gallbladder polyp), TAUS will overdiagnose 37 people without a polyp as having a polyp, and in 7 people with a polyp, the polyp will be missed. In a population of 1000 people with a gallbladder polyp, of which 10% have a true polyp, 189 people with a pseudo polyp will be indicated as having a true polyp by TAUS, and 90 people by EUS. These people may be treated, which is not necessary. In 32 people, the true polyp will be misclassified as a pseudo polyp by TAUS and in 15 people by EUS. These people would not be treated, while they may need treatment. In a population of 1000 people with a gallbladder polyp, of which 5% have a (pre)cancerous polyp, 105 people with a benign polyp will be indicated as having a (pre)cancerous polyp by TAUS, and 75 people by EUS. These people may be overtreated for a (precursor of) cancer, which is not there. In 11 people, the (pre)cancerous polyp will be misclassified as a benign polyp by TAUS, and in 7 people by EUS. These participants may not receive proper treatment for their (precursor of) cancer. TAUS will correctly diagnose 956 out of 1000 people regarding the presence or absence of gallbladder polyps. For differentiating between polyp types, fewer people will be correctly diagnosed by TAUS, leading to unnecessary treatment for pseudo polyps and neglect of (pre)cancerous polyps. There was insufficient evidence that EUS is better than TAUS in differentiating between true and pseudo polyps and between (pre)cancerous and benign polyps. 
Quality of evidence All studies were either at high or unclear risk of bias and 13 studies had either high or unclear applicability concerns. This may undermine the validity of the studies. 
