Do medicines used to treat depression help people to quit smoking?
Background and review questions 
Some medicines and supplements that have been used to treat depression (antidepressants) have also been tested to see whether they can help people to stop smoking. Two of these treatments ‐ bupropion (sometimes called Zyban) and nortriptyline ‐ are sometimes given to help people quit smoking. This review looks at whether using antidepressants actually helps people to stop smoking (for six months or longer), and also looks at the safety of using these medicines. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes 115 studies looking at how helpful and safe different antidepressants are when used to quit smoking. Most of the studies were conducted in adults. We included studies of any length when looking at safety, but studies needed to be at least six months long when assessing whether people had managed to quit smoking. The evidence is up to date to May 2019. 
Key results 
Using the antidepressant, bupropion, makes it 52% to 77% more likely that a person will successfully stop smoking, which is equal to five to seven more people successfully quitting for six months or more for every one hundred people who try to quit. There is evidence that people who use the antidepressant, nortriptyline, to quit smoking also improve their chances of success. There is not enough evidence to determine whether other antidepressants help people to quit smoking. 
There is evidence that bupropion increases unwanted effects, particularly those relating to mental health, and that unwanted effects may increase the chance that people stop using the medicine. However, the evidence does not suggest that bupropion is more likely to result in death, hospitalization, or life‐threatening events, like seizures. There is not enough information to draw clear conclusions about the safety of nortriptyline for stopping smoking. 
The evidence does not suggest that taking bupropion at the same time as other stop‐smoking medicines, like varenicline (sometimes known as Champix or Chantix) or nicotine replacement therapy makes people more likely to quit smoking. People are as likely to quit smoking when using bupropion as when using nortriptyline or nicotine replacement therapy, however people using varenicline are more likely to quit than those using bupropion. 
Certainty of evidence 
There is high‐certainty evidence that bupropion helps people to quit smoking, meaning further research is very unlikely to change this conclusion. However, there is also high‐certainty evidence to suggest that people using bupropion are more likely to stop taking the medicine because of unpleasant effects than those taking a pill without medication (a placebo). The certainty of the evidence was moderate, low or very low for the other key questions we looked at. This means that the findings of those questions may change when more research is carried out. In most cases this was because there were not enough studies or studies were too small. 
