Hydroxyurea (also known as hydroxycarbamide) for people with sickle cell disease
Review question 
What is the effect of hydroxyurea on clinical outcomes (changes in pain crises, life‐threatening illnesses, survival, haemoglobin levels, quality of life and side effects) in people with sickle cell disease (SCD) of any genotype? 
Background 
SCD is an inherited genetic disorder that creates problems with haemoglobin (the substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body). The disease can be inherited in different ways; people can inherit two sickle genes (HbSS genotype) or they can inherit the sickle gene from one parent and a different haemoglobin gene (such as haemoglobin C (HbSC genotype) or a beta thalassaemia gene (HbSβ+ or HbSβºthal genotype)) from the second parent. 
In people with SCD the abnormal sickle haemoglobin forms long polymers (chains) within the red blood cells when they become de‐oxygenated. This damages the red blood cells and makes them stickier, leading to blockages and reduced blood flow, causing pain and organ damage. Fetal haemoglobin stops these polymers forming in the sickle haemoglobin within the red blood cell. The drug hydroxyurea is used to raise fetal haemoglobin and can reduce the effects of the disease. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 16 January 2017.
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies (899 adults and children with SCD (HbSS, HbSC or HbSβºthal genotypes)). Studies lasted from six to 30 months. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
In four studies, 577 adults and children with SCD were randomly selected to receive hydroxyurea or placebo. In two studies, 254 children with SCD, who were also at an increased risk of having a first or second stroke, were randomly selected to receive hydroxyurea and phlebotomy (collection of blood) or blood transfusion and chelation (administration of agents to remove excess iron from the body). These six studies only recruited people with HbSS or HbSβºthal genotypes so results do not apply to people with the HbSC genotype. 
There was moderate quality evidence from these six studies that those receiving hydroxyurea experienced significant reductions in the frequency of pain crises, increases in fetal haemoglobin and decreases in neutrophil (white blood cell) counts compared to the comparator treatment. There was no difference between people receiving hydroxyurea or other treatments in terms of quality of life, deaths during the studies and side effects (including serious and life‐threatening side effects); however, there is less information about these outcomes in the studies, so the quality of this evidence is low. 
Two further studies were included in the review. In one study, 22 children with SCD, who were also at an increased risk of having a stroke, were randomly selected to receive hydroxyurea or no treatment (observation only) and in one study 44 adults and children were randomly selected to receive treatments with or without adding hydroxyurea. Both studies showed an increase in fetal haemoglobin for people receiving hydroxyurea compared to the comparator treatment and there were no deaths during the studies. There was no difference between people receiving hydroxyurea or other treatments in terms of pain crises and side effects (including serious or life‐threatening side effects) and these studies did not measure quality of life. The quality of the evidence from these studies is very low, given the studies were very small and only recruited around 20% of the intended number of people and results do not apply to all people with SCD (different genotypes). 
