What effects do washing and moisturising practices have on the skin health of older people in hospital and residential care settings? 
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effects of different washing practices and emollients (moisturisers) when compared with usual care or no treatment on maintaining healthy skin in people aged 60 years or older in hospitals or care homes. 
Background 
With age, skin becomes drier; this may lead to discomfort, itching, and skin damage. Good hygiene and moisturising practice supports healthy skin ageing. However, research is limited, and current care is largely based on custom and practice. 
Study characteristics 
We included six studies (1598 participants), all completed in care homes. When reported, most participants were female and aged 80 years or older. 
Two studies included only people with diagnosed dry skin. Studies compared usual care or no treatment against differing cleansing and moisturising skin care regimens (a moisturising soap bar; combinations of water soak, oil soak, and lotion; regular application of a commercially available moisturiser; use of two different standardised skin care regimens comprising a body wash and leave‐on body lotion; bed bath with "wash gloves" containing numerous ingredients; and application of a hot towel after usual care bed bath). Length of treatment ranged from a single application for 10 seconds to six months of twice‐daily moisturiser use. Only one study assessed participants post treatment (one to eight days post treatment), and participants in the hot towel study were measured 15 minutes after their skin was wiped with a dry towel. When reported, four studies had received external funding, in two cases from commercial sponsors. 
The evidence is current to January 2019.
Key results 
Our main outcomes were skin damage and treatment side effects. Only one study reported frequency of skin damage (skin tears), finding fewer tears per month (5.76 per 1000 occupied bed‐days) with usual care plus twice‐daily application of a commercially available, pH‐neutral moisturising lotion (for six months) compared with usual care (i.e. no standardised skin‐moisturising routine) (10.57 tears). However, this is based on very low‐quality evidence, so we are uncertain about this result. 
Only one study measured side effects of treatments, comparing care as usual (i.e. usual personal hygiene and care products) against the use of two different types of moisturising body wash plus body lotion (application was twice daily for eight weeks) in two groups of participants. Four side effects were reported in the treatment group (assessment occurred approximately 56 days after treatment started): itch (mild), redness (mild/moderate), irritation (severe), and mild skin dryness. No side effects were reported in the care‐as‐usual group. However, this finding is based on very low‐quality evidence, meaning that we are uncertain about this result. 
The same study assessed water loss from the skin of the forearm and lower leg and found there may be no difference between usual care and treatment. A different study compared a hot towel applied for 10 seconds after a usual care bed bath versus usual care bed bath only, finding there may be little or no difference in water loss between groups. Both studies are based on low‐quality evidence. 
