Corticosteroids for preventing complications following facial plastic surgery
Complications following facial plastic surgery 
Today, facial plastic surgery is one of the most common types of surgery. People frequently chose to have it for aesthetic (beauty) reasons, so doctors need to minimise the unpleasant effects (complications) associated with these procedures. All surgical procedures produce an inflammatory response, which may cause swelling and bruising. Severe swelling and bruising are troublesome for patients, as they delay full recovery. 
Why corticosteroids might help 
Corticosteroids, more often known as 'steroids', are medicines that doctors prescribe to reduce inflammation in a wide range of conditions. They are commonly used in facial plastic surgery to reduce swelling and bruising, though it is not known how efficient or safe they might be. 
The purpose of this review 
This review tried to find out whether giving corticosteroids around the time of facial plastic surgery reduces swelling and bruising compared to another intervention, no intervention, or a fake medicine (placebo). 
Findings of this review 
The review authors searched the medical literature up to January 2014, and identified 10 relevant medical trials, with a total of 422 participants. Nine of these studies were on people having rhinoplasty (surgery to reshape the nose) and one was on people having a facelift.The trials investigated a variety of corticosteroid medicines, as well as different doses of corticosteroids. People in the studies were assessed for swelling and bruising for up to 10 days after surgery. None of the studies stated the funding source. 
There was some low quality evidence that a single dose of corticosteroid administered prior to surgery might reduce swelling and bruising over the first two days after surgery, but this advantage was not maintained beyond two days. One study, with 40 participants, showed that high doses of corticosteroid decreased both swelling and bruising between the first and seventh postoperative days. The usefulness of these results is uncertain and there is currently no evidence regarding the safety of the treatment. Five trials did not report on harmful (adverse) effects; four trials reported that there were no adverse effects; and one trial reported adverse effects in two participants treated with corticosteroids as well as in four participants treated with placebo. None of the studies reported recovery time, patient satisfaction or quality of life. 
