How accurate is high‐frequency ultrasound for diagnosing skin cancer in adults?
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are several types of skin cancer. Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms, so it is important to detect it early and remove it as soon as possible. Failure to recognise melanoma for what it is (known as a false negative test result) can delay treatment, risking the spread of melanoma to other organs in the body and possibly premature death. Other skin cancers, like cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma and basal cell carcinoma, are more localised. However, cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma can spread to other parts of the body, and basal cell carcinoma can cause disfigurement if left untreated. Diagnosing a harmless lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) as skin cancer (a false positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery and other tests that can cause stress and anxiety to the patient. Mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment or delays in effective treatment. Thus, the correct diagnosis is important. 
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out whether high‐frequency ultrasound can help doctors diagnose skin cancer. We found six studies to try and answer this question. Five studies investigated the diagnosis of melanoma and three, basal cell carcinoma. 
What was studied in the review? 
A number of tools allow skin cancer specialists to examine the skin in more detail than by the naked eye alone. Most skin cancer specialists currently use a dermatoscope, which magnifies the skin lesion using a natural light. Ultrasound is another non‐invasive technique that measures sound wave reflections from body tissues. High‐frequency ultrasound can produce a good‐quality image of structures closer to the skin surface. When used alongside a doctor's examination and dermoscopy, high‐frequency ultrasound may help doctors make a more accurate diagnosis. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included six studies: five with 1125 skin lesions suspected of being melanoma, and three with 993 lesions suspected of being basal cell carcinoma. We did not find any studies on the diagnosis of cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma. 
The included studies were small and too different from each other to allow reliable estimates of accuracy to be made for identifying melanoma or basal cell carcinoma. Half were not actually designed to establish test accuracy and all can be considered preliminary experiments on the potential value of high‐frequency ultrasound. The main value of the studies may be in helping researchers to identify the best ways of interpreting high‐frequency ultrasound for the diagnosis of melanoma or basal cell carcinoma for evaluation in future research studies. 
How reliable are the results? 
Study results are not very reliable when considered collectively. The small number and variability between studies reduces reliability, while all had important limitations. In particular, those taking part in the studies and the way in which the tests were used may not reflect real life situations. In all studies the final diagnosis was confirmed by biopsy. This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had skin cancer*. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Studies all took place in Europe, and only one reported participants' average age (55.3 years). The percentage of people with a final diagnosis of melanoma ranged from 14% to 58%, while 8% to 49% had basal cell carcinoma. It was not possible to tell whether doctors suspected skin cancer based on clinical examination alone or both clinical and dermoscopic examination. 
What are the implications of this review? 
At present, there is not enough good research to draw a conclusion on using high‐frequency ultrasound for diagnosing skin cancers. The results of this review suggest that high‐frequency ultrasound has potential to separate melanoma or basal cell carcinoma from some harmless types of lesions, but it is still unclear whether it can adequately distinguish these skin cancers from the full range of skin conditions that patients show their doctors in everyday practice. There is a need for more studies investigating high‐frequency ultrasound alongside dermoscopy or other microscopic techniques (such as reflectance confocal microscopy) in people with suspicious skin lesions. 
