TEG and ROTEM for diagnosing trauma‑induced coagulopathy (disorder of the clotting system) in adult trauma patients with bleeding 
What is 'trauma‐induced coagulopathy'? 
Trauma‐induced coagulopathy (TIC) is a disorder of the blood clotting process that can occur soon after trauma injury that can lead to the patient bleeding to death. A diagnosis of TIC on admission to hospital is associated with increases in death rates, blood transfusions, risks of complications and length of stay in hospital. 
How is TIC diagnosed? 
Current testing for TIC normally involves coagulation tests on the patient's blood.
What are thromboelastography (TEG) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM)? 
Thromboelastography (TEG) and rotational thromboelastometry (ROTEM) are tests which involve a group of assessments that can be used to diagnose TIC. In some centres TEG and ROTEM are used routinely to test patients' blood, but in the UK their use is usually restricted to experimental and research settings. 
The purpose of this research 
The purpose of this research was to determine how good the TEG and ROTEM assessments are at diagnosing TIC in adult trauma patients who are bleeding. The accuracy of TEG and ROTEM was compared against another test that is currently used (the reference standard), which was the prothrombin time/international normalized ratio (PTr/INR). 
What we discovered 
We identified 3 studies (with 300, 90 and 40 participants; 430 in total) that compared the diagnostic test accuracy of TEG or ROTEM for identifying TIC in bleeding adult trauma patients within the emergency setting against PTr/INR. We recognise that the reference standards of PT and INR are imperfect, but in the absence of embedded clinical consensus these are judged to be the best reflection of current clinical practice. Readers should note that the assessment of test accuracy was not the single purpose of any of these 3 included studies. 
None of the 3 studies investigated the accuracy of the TEG assessment; they all investigated the ROTEM assessment. The 3 studies provided very little evidence on the accuracy of ROTEM, and provided results for only one potential indicator of TIC (clot amplitude (CA) at 5, 10 and 15 minutes (CA5, CA10 and CA15)), although other indicators could have been used. 
The overall reliability of the estimates of accuracy for CA was undermined by the low number of studies (2 for CA5 measurements and 1 each for CA10 and CA15 measurements), as well as concerns that the studies might be subject to bias concerning aspects of the ROTEM test and the PTr/INR test being used as the reference standard. 
There was not enough research available on the test accuracy of TEG or ROTEM for the researchers to determine whether these assessments provide a good test for diagnosing TIC in bleeding adult trauma patients. 
This evidence strongly suggests that at the moment these tests should only be used for research. The review emphasises that it is not enough to define the index test solely in terms of the device (TEG and ROTEM). Both ROTEM and TEG offer a number of measures: time to initiate clotting; time of clot formation; alpha angle; clot amplitude; maximum strength of clot; time to maximum clot strength; time to lysis of different degrees. These are illustrated in Figure 7. In addition, the protocol for initiating clotting also needs to be specified e.g. INTEM, EXTEM or FIBTEM in the case of ROTEM. Greater clarity is needed on which of these measures is most reliable and which is most relevant for particular clinical tasks; there may be more than one. Finally, different test evaluations may help in assessing these various aspects of the tests. Evaluations of predictive studies may shed light on the link between test result and patient outcome, and provide insight into the best treatment strategies for this condition and patient group. The authors of this review are currently conducting a review of such predictive studies, and this is registered on the International Prospective Register of Systematic Reviews (PROSPERO). 
