Melatonin to improve sleep in the intensive care unit
Background 
Patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) experience poor sleep. This may be caused by constant high noise levels and 24‐hour lighting in the ICU, as well as increased and intrusive patient care activities (such as measuring blood pressure, pulse, and temperature; taking blood samples; administering medications, etc.). Lack of sleep affects a person's physical and mental health. It is accepted that sleep is an essential requirement for good health. Sleep has a restorative function, and for the critically ill is thought to improve healing and survival. Patients perceive the quality of their sleep to be poor while they are in the ICU. Melatonin is a hormone produced in the body to regulate a daily cycle of sleep and wakefulness. Artificial light during night‐time hours in the ICU may affect the body's natural production of melatonin, and this may affect the sleep cycle in critically ill patients. 
Review question 
To assess whether melatonin improves the quantity and quality of sleep for adults in the ICU and improves physical and psychological health. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to September 2017. We included four studies with 151 participants in the review. All participants were critically ill and were in the ICU. All studies compared melatonin with no agent (an inactive substance called a placebo), or with usual care. 
Key results 
We did not combine data from the four included studies. Three studies used nurses and participants to assess sleep and reported no difference in quality and quantity of sleep. Two studies used equipment to measure quality and quantity of sleep, and one of these studies reported no difference in sleep efficiency (how well the person sleeps during night‐time hours) according to melatonin use and, according to some analysis, evidence of "better sleep" for those given melatonin. One study reported problems with equipment which led to a loss of data. One study reported no difference in anxiety, and there was no difference in mortality, or length of stay in the ICU. We noted few potential side effects of melatonin (headache in one participant, and excessive sleepiness in another participant). 
Quality of the evidence 
We noted differences between groups in doses of melatonin and two studies reported differences between groups in participant characteristics which could have affected the results. One study had a large loss of data and another study did not use standard anaesthetic drugs to sedate patients. Few studies used appropriate equipment to measure quantity of sleep. We found few studies with few participants that assessed our review outcomes. We judged all evidence to be very low quality, and we could not be certain whether melatonin given to adults in the ICU improves quantity and quality of sleep. We found five ongoing studies in database and clinical trial register searches. Inclusion of these studies in future review updates would provide more certainty for the review outcomes. 
