Medicines for sleep problems in dementia
Background 
People with dementia frequently experience sleep disturbances. These can include reduced sleep at night, frequent wakening, wandering at night, and sleeping excessively during the day. 
These behaviours cause a lot of stress to carers, and may be associated with earlier admission to institutional care for people with dementia. They can also be difficult for care‐home staff to manage. 
Non‐drug approaches to treatment should be tried first, However, these may not help and medicines are often used. Since the source of the sleep problems may be changes in the brain caused by dementia, it is not clear whether normal sleeping tablets are effective for people with dementia, and there are worries that the medicines could cause significant side effects (harms). 
The purpose of this review 
In this updated Cochrane review, we tried to identify the benefits and common harms of any medicine used to treat sleep problems in people with dementia. 
Findings of this review 
We searched up to February 2020 for well‐designed trials that compared any medicine used for treating sleep problems in people with dementia with a fake medicine (placebo). We consulted a panel of carers to help us identify the most important outcomes to look for in the trials. 
We found nine trials (649 participants) investigating four types of medicine: melatonin (five trials), trazodone (one trial), ramelteon (one trial), and orexin antagonists (two trials). Participants in all the trials had dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. The ramelteon trial, one melatonin trial, and both orexin antagonist trials were commercially funded. Overall, the evidence was moderate or low quality, meaning that further research is likely to affect the results. 
Participants in the trazodone trial and most of those in the melatonin trials had moderate‐to‐severe dementia, while those in the ramelteon and orexin antagonist trials had mild‐to‐moderate dementia. 
The five melatonin trials included 253 participants. We found no evidence that melatonin improved sleep in people with dementia due to Alzheimer's disease. The ramelteon trial had 74 participants. The limited information available did not provide any evidence that ramelteon was better than placebo. There were no serious harms for either medicine. 
