Lasers for the removal of decay in first and permanent teeth
Review question 
This review addressed the issue of whether there is an advantage to laser therapy for the removal of decay in teeth and patient pain, compared to a traditional drill, in children, adolescents and adults. 
Background 
Dental decay is a cavity formation in teeth resulting from the destruction of dental tissue caused by bacteria under certain conditions, including poor oral hygiene and excessive sugar intake. Symptoms may include pain and difficulty with eating, and complications may include tooth loss, infection or inflammation of the gum. Rotating drills are traditionally used to remove decay. However, this mechanical tool may have unexpected side effects, such as the removal of too much or too little decay, in addition to discomfort due to pain, noise and vibration. Laser therapy is a potential alternative to a mechanical drill. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane Oral Health provided the search strategies and carried out the search in several electronic databases. We selected nine randomised trials for inclusion in this review that were conducted between 1998 and 2014. The evidence in the review is up to date as of 22 June 2016. The trials involved a total of 662 participants, with 1498 teeth treated. Three studies were conducted in the USA, one in Taiwan, one in China, one in Bulgaria, one in Germany, one in Turkey and one in the UK. The population consisted of both children and adolescents in four trials, only adults in four trials, and both children/adolescents and adults in one trial. 
Key results 
Despite the number of included studies, only a few trials adequately and completely reported information on the primary outcomes. Two trials reported on removal of decay, and there was not enough evidence to conclude that either lasers or drills were better at decay removal. Only five trials reported on episodes of pain, which was significantly reduced in people treated with lasers. There was no difference in terms of side effects, such as inflammation or death of dental pulp, between the two interventions. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence for the nine studies was low. Only one study adequately randomised participants, and none of the included studies was at low risk of bias. This review highlights the need for high‐quality studies comparing laser therapy and mechanical drills in the treatment of dental decay. 
