Oral and sublingual immunotherapy (giving people small amounts of things they are allergic to via their mouth or under their tongue) for fruit allergy 
Review question and background 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of oral and sublingual immunotherapy in people with a food allergy to fruit. Food allergy is an abnormal response to a food, usually after eating it. The main treatment for food allergy is to avoid the food, but in people with food allergy, accidentally eating the food can cause severe reactions. 
Immunotherapy is a possible long‐term treatment for food allergy, including for food allergy to fruit. Immunotherapy is a process where increasing doses of the thing someone is allergic to (the allergen) are given over a period of time to help the person be less sensitive to the allergen. In oral immunotherapy, a small amount of the allergen is given to someone to eat. In sublingual immunotherapy, an extract from the allergen is put under the tongue. 
Study characteristics 
We found two studies with 89 participants in total. One looked at oral immunotherapy in people with an allergy to apple, comparing it to no treatment, and one looked at sublingual immunotherapy in people with an allergy to peach, comparing it to a placebo. Both studies were in adults. The evidence is current to July 2015. 
Key results 
The study of oral immunotherapy for apple allergy found participants who received the intervention were less sensitive to apple than people who did not receive the intervention at eight months. The study of sublingual immunotherapy for peach allergy did not find a difference between the groups in terms of sensitivity at six months. In both studies, there were more side effects in people receiving the treatment, but these were not serious. Overall, the quality of evidence is very low because both studies were small, results were not similar between studies, and there were issues with study design. More research is needed before we can tell if oral and sublingual therapy works for food allergy to fruits. 
