Nicotine for postoperative pain
Review question 
This Cochrane review examines whether nicotine given prior to, during, or immediately after surgery results in less pain, use of opioids, and side effects from opioids. 
Background study characteristics 
Major surgery is usually associated with significant pain. The mainstay of treatment for pain following major surgery is opioid medications (strong pain killers such as morphine). However, opioids are not always entirely effective and are associated with side effects including sleepiness (sedation), shallow breathing (respiratory depression), feeling sick (nausea), and being sick (vomiting). Co‐administered medications, like paracetamol, may help improve postoperative pain control and reduce the need for opioids. 
We included nine clinical trials with a total of 666 participants. We searched several databases to March 2014, to find placebo‐controlled, randomized trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups, one of which includes a pretend (placebo) group) of nicotine for postoperative pain. We also contacted study authors for additional data. Not all studies reported all of the symptoms (outcomes) listed above, so what we can say about some outcomes is limited. We re‐ran the search on 28 April 2015. We will assess the one study of interest when we update this review. 
Key results 
Our results indicated that there is low quality evidence that nicotine use results in slightly lower postoperative pain scores 24 hours after surgery. At one hour and 12 hours postoperatively the effect was less certain. Nicotine appeared not to reduce use of opioids at 60 minutes or 24 hours, neither was there evidence that it reduced sedation or vomiting. Nicotine was associated with higher risk of nausea than placebo, and this may limit its use. There was not enough data to evaluate the effects of nicotine use on other side effects associated with opioids, including respiratory depression, or the effects of nicotine use on length of hospital stay following surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
We downgraded the quality of the evidence to low or very low quality largely because of problems with the way that the studies were designed, which could have exaggerated the results, because there was insufficient data in many of the analyses to be certain about the size of the average effect and because the results of some of the studies varied substantially. 
