Search strategies to identify observational studies in MEDLINE and Embase
Background 
Systematic reviews collect, analyse and summarise research to answer defined research questions. The evidence from systematic reviews is considered as the most reliable evidence and is often used to inform healthcare‐related decision making. Systematic reviews on prognosis, cause, risk factors and complications of a disease include a specific type of study design: observational studies. Searching for literature usually involves the use of MEDLINE and Embase databases and can result in a large number of articles to check for the review. Therefore, in order to focus their search, researchers often use a set of terms relating to study designs, known as methodological filters. However, when using these, researchers may miss relevant studies but find many irrelevant articles. Performance of filters are evaluated by sensitivity, which is the ability of the search filter to retrieve all the relevant studies that exist, and precision, which is the ability of the search filter to retrieve only relevant studies. Given the importance of including evidence from observational studies in systematic reviews, we aimed to assess studies evaluating methodological strategies for identifying observational studies in the two main databases of health literature, MEDLINE and Embase. 
Study characteristics 
We found two eligible studies reporting on 18 methodological filters, including six MEDLINE, six Embase and six combined MEDLINE/Embase filters. The firsts study focused on filters on observational studies of surgical interventions. The second study focused on filters for a specific subtype of observational studies: comparative non‐randomised studies. 
Key results 
Six filters from the first study showed sensitivity of 99.5% to 100% and precision of 16.7% to 21.1%. One type of filter was evaluated by two additional systematic reviews (i.e. externally validated) and found that this retrieved 85.2% to 100% of the articles in the reference standard. Twelve filters from the second study had lower sensitivity (48% to 100%) and much lower precision (0.09% to 4.47%). 
Quality of evidence 
The included studies had several limitations. The first study used only one systematic review for search strategy development and focused on observational studies of surgical interventions, which might limit the generalizability of the findings to other literature searches. The reference standard in the second study, although encompassing four different systematic reviews, included a limited number of studies, which might affect the accuracy of the performance assessment. Both studies were published 10 years ago and labelling and indexing of observational studies has changed since then. 
