Androgens (dehydroepiandrosterone or testosterone) for women undergoing assisted reproduction
Review question 
Researchers in the Cochrane collaboration reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of androgens in women undergoing assisted reproduction. The androgens evaluated were dehydroepiandrosterone (DHEA) and testosterone (T) as pre‐ or co‐treatments aiming to improve pregnancy and live birth rates in those women. 
Background 
Infertility affects 10% to 15% of couples seeking to start a family. DHEA and T are steroid hormones that researchers have suggested might increase conception rates by increasing the response of the ovary to stimulation. 
Study characteristics 
This Cochrane review included 17 randomised controlled trials which compared treatment with the androgens DHEA or T with placebo or no treatment in a total of 1496 women, almost all of whom had been identified as 'poor responders' to standard assisted reproduction protocols. The main outcomes were live birth (defined as delivery of a live baby after 20 weeks gestation) or ongoing pregnancy rates, miscarriage, clinical pregnancy rates (fetal heartbeat confirmed on ultrasound) and multiple pregnancy rates. We examined the evidence published up to 12 March 2015. 
Key results 
DHEA and T use may be associated with increased live birth rates. The evidence for the use of DHEA suggested that in women with a 12% chance of live birth with placebo or no treatment, the live birth rate in women using DHEA will be between 15% and 26%. The evidence for the use of T suggested that in women with an 8% chance of live birth with placebo or no treatment, the live birth rate in women using T will be between 10% and 32%. When we removed from the analyses the studies at high risk of bias, this increase was no longer present for DHEA or T. There is insufficient evidence to draw any conclusions about the safety of either androgen. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the trials was moderate, and the main limitations were lack of blinding, inadequate reporting of study methods and small sample sizes in some included trials. 
