To investigate if using ultrasound to look at anal muscles after childbirth reduces women's suffering from gas, liquid or solid stool leakage 
Many women have a tear to the skin between the vagina and anus (the perineum) following childbirth. These tears can sometimes involve the muscles that control the function of the anus, and women can suffer for the rest of their lives with difficulty controlling gas, liquid and solid stool. Evidence shows that by properly repairing these tears, complications can be reduced. The muscles can often be difficult to see with the naked eye due to a number of factors including reduced lighting, swelling of the tissues and poor pain relief. 
In this review, we investigated whether using an ultrasound probe that is inserted into the anus before repairing the tear could help to identify undetected tears, delineate the extent of the muscle tear and allow for better repair and subsequently reduce long‐term problems. We also looked at the use of anal ultrasound in women who had an anal muscle tear repaired and whether this improved these outcomes by influencing their subsequent management. 
We found one randomised controlled trial that met our inclusion criteria. This trial included 752 women who, following vaginal birth, had a tear to the skin between the vagina and anus that did not include the anal muscles on clinical examination. The women were allocated to receive either routine care (clinical examination) or anal ultrasound prior to their tear being sutured (stitched). We found that women who had anal ultrasound before undergoing perineal repair were about half as likely to suffer from severe anal symptoms. This difference was clear at less than six months and greater than or equal to six months after giving birth. Women were, however, more likely to have significant perineal pain at three months after birth if they underwent ultrasound examination. Solid stool incontinence and involuntary loss of gas (flatulence) were not clearly different between the two groups of women. There was also no difference in terms of maternal quality of life. 
