Can virtual reality training for cataract surgery supplement or replace other training methods for ophthalmology trainees? 
Key messagesWe did not find enough evidence to show that virtual reality (VR) training improves cataract surgery performance among ophthalmology trainees compared to wet lab or conventional training. 
What is virtual reality training?VR training uses computer technology to simulate a three‐dimensional interactive environment. 
How does cataract surgery training work in ophthalmology trainees?Most postgraduate ophthalmology trainees in the United States (US) transition gradually from performing specific cataract surgery (replacing the cloudy lens inside the eye with an artificial one) steps in a wet laboratory (practicing on cadaver or artificial tissues) or using VR simulators to performing cataract surgery in the operating room. 
Why is this question important?VR training is becoming increasingly common in postgraduate ophthalmology training, but comprehensive reviews of the impact of VR training on trainees’ cataract surgery performance are lacking. 
What did we want to find out?The primary aim of this review was to determine whether VR training improved operating room performance (measured by operating time in the operating room, intraoperative [during the operation] complications, or postoperative [after the operation] complications) in cataract surgery for postgraduate ophthalmology trainees. The secondary aim was to identify the impact of VR training on operating time in simulated settings, supervising physician ratings in the operating room or simulator settings, or VR simulation task ratings. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?We searched for studies that compared VR training to other training methods such as traditional wet laboratory training or no supplementary training in a postgraduate ophthalmology trainee population. 
What did we find?VR relative to conventional or wet laboratory training did not impact operating times, the rate of intraoperative complications, or supervising physician ratings in the operating room. However, compared to trainees without supplementary training, VR‐trained trainees received higher supervising physician ratings in the operating room. The quality of evidence for all outcomes was very low. 
What does this mean?VR training is a promising intervention for teaching cataract surgery, but more rigorous, evidence‐based studies are needed to gauge its impact on key outcomes such as intraoperative and postoperative complications.  
How up‐to‐date is the evidence?The evidence is current up to 14 June 2021. 
