Airway clearance techniques for cystic fibrosis: an overview of Cochrane Reviews
We reviewed the evidence from Cochrane Reviews about the effect of airway clearance techniques in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a life‐limiting genetic condition that affects the respiratory and digestive systems. People with cystic fibrosis produce thick mucus that builds up in the lungs leading to infections and inflammation and eventually to a deterioration in lung function. People with cystic fibrosis perform airway clearance techniques at least daily to help keep their lungs clear of mucus. There are various airway clearance techniques, which differ in terms of the need for assistance or equipment, and cost. The airway clearance techniques included in this overview are conventional chest physiotherapy, various breathing techniques (active cycle of breathing technique, autogenic drainage), devices that create a positive pressure (positive expiratory pressure therapy (PEP) or high‐pressure PEP therapy) or a vibration (oscillating devices) to move mucus, and exercise. 
The condition is progressive and as lung function worsens, airway clearance techniques may not be sufficient. It may be useful to consider other therapies, such as hypertonic saline or dornase alfa, in addition to airway clearance techniques. These additional therapies are not covered in this overview. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 29 November 2018.
Study characteristics 
This overview included six Cochrane Reviews. One review compared any type of chest physiotherapy (conventional chest physiotherapy, PEP therapy, high‐pressure PEP therapy, active cycle of breathing technique, autogenic drainage, exercise, vibrating (oscillating) devices) with no chest physiotherapy or coughing alone. The remaining five reviews included head‐to‐head comparisons of different airway clearance techniques, thus these five reviews often overlapped with each other. 
Key results 
In this overview, we found moderate evidence that PEP therapy and vibrating (oscillating) devices have a similar effect on lung function (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) after six months of treatment. We are unable to draw definitive conclusions for all other comparisons in terms of FEV1 because the quality of evidence is currently lacking. Likewise, we are unable to draw any definitive conclusions for other outcome measures such as individual preference and quality of life. Harms, such as acid reflux, collapsed lungs, coughing up blood, or decreased oxygen, were rarely mentioned in the original trials. There is a lack of evidence to determine if any particular airway clearance therapy is riskier than the other therapies. 
