Treatments to help prevent psychosis in women who have just given birth
There is a small percentage of women for whom giving birth leads to psychosis. Postnatal psychosis affects one to two in every 1000 new mothers and is almost always a mood disorder accompanied by loss of contact with reality, hearing voices and seeing things (hallucinations), having strange beliefs (delusions), severe thought disturbance, and abnormal behaviour. It can be a life‐threatening condition with an abrupt onset within a month of childbirth.  Postnatal psychosis is more common in first time mothers and the risk is greater for mothers who are single or in older age. Risk is also greater in those with past mental health problems, family history of mental illness, depression before pregnancy and hormone problems. The most common symptoms of postnatal psychosis are feeling excited, elated or high, not needing to sleep or the inability to sleep, feeling active and talking more or feeling very chatty. Other women with postnatal psychosis may have severe depression with delusions, hearing voices, little or no speech, mental numbness and stupor. Such symptoms are themselves distressing but can also lead to harmful behaviours which include suicide, child neglect and abuse, or even in some extreme cases killing their child. Without treatment postnatal psychosis can last many months, but if women do receive modern therapy the symptoms usually resolve within a few weeks, reducing the risk of harm to both mother and baby. As well as treatment, prevention could save the lives of both the mother and her baby, improve the mother‐baby relationship, and lead to better family relationships. Preventive interventions for postnatal psychosis aim at identifying women with risk factors, the early recognition of imminent psychosis through screening, and preventive drug therapy.   This review investigated the best available evidence for interventions aimed at preventing postnatal psychosis. Unfortunately, no studies were found that could be included. Nevertheless, this review raises many unanswered questions and strongly suggests that future research on postnatal psychosis is much needed. Despite a growing interest in women’s mental health, knowledge and research on postnatal psychosis is still very limited. Future well‐designed, well‐conducted and well‐reported studies are necessary to help improve prevention of symptoms and treatment for women with postnatal psychosis. 
This plain language summary has been written by a consumer Benjamin Gray; Service User and Service User Expert. Rethink Mental Illness. 
