Interventions for children with ear discharge occurring at least two weeks following grommet placement 
Review question 
This review compares the effects and safety of interventions in children with grommets who develop ear discharge beyond the immediate postoperative period. 
Background 
The insertion of grommets (1 to 2 mm plastic tubes placed into the eardrum) is one of the commonest surgical procedures performed in children worldwide. Up to three in four children with grommets develop episodes of ear discharge. When this occurs beyond the immediate postoperative period, it is thought to be a symptom of a middle ear infection. The most common treatments include oral antibiotics (i.e. by mouth), antibiotic eardrops or those containing a combination of antibiotic(s) and a corticosteroid, and initial observation. Important reasons for physicians to choose one treatment over another are concerns over the side effects of oral antibiotics and the potential risk of damage to the inner ear and hearing loss due to the use of antibiotic eardrops. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes evidence up to 23 June 2016. We included nine studies with a total of 2132 children who developed acute ear discharge beyond the immediate postoperative period. The studies evaluated a range of treatments. 
Key results 
We primarily looked at the difference in the proportion of children whose ear discharge had resolved within two weeks after treatment was started, adverse events and serious complications. Secondary outcomes were the proportion of children whose discharge had resolved at two to four weeks and four to 12 weeks, the proportion of children whose ear pain and fever had resolved within two weeks, the duration of discharge, the proportion of children with chronic discharge, discharge recurrences, tube blockage, tube extrusion, health‐related quality of life and hearing. 
Antibiotic eardrops (with or without corticosteroid) versus oral antibiotics 
Antibiotic eardrops with or without corticosteroid were more effective than oral antibiotics in terms of resolution of ear discharge at one week (moderate‐quality evidence) and two weeks (moderate‐quality evidence), ear discharge recurrences (low‐quality evidence) and disease‐specific quality of life (low‐quality evidence). We found no evidence that antibiotic eardrops were more effective in reducing the risk of chronic ear discharge (low‐quality evidence), tube blockage (low‐quality evidence), general quality of life (low‐quality evidence) or hearing (very low‐quality evidence). Adverse events occurred at similar rates (low‐quality evidence), while no serious complications occurred in either of the groups (very low‐quality evidence). 
Other comparisons 
Antibiotic eardrops with or without corticosteroid were more effective than corticosteroid eardrops in terms of duration of ear discharge (moderate‐quality evidence). 
Antibiotic eardrops were more effective than saline rinsing in terms of resolution of ear discharge at one week (moderate‐quality evidence), but not in terms of tube blockage (low‐quality evidence). Also, we cannot exclude an unimportant difference between antibiotic eardrops and saline rinsing in terms of resolution of discharge at one week. 
Eardrops containing two antibiotics and a corticosteroid were more effective than no treatment in terms of resolution of ear discharge at two weeks (moderate‐quality evidence), duration of ear discharge (moderate‐quality evidence), reducing the risk of chronic ear discharge (low‐quality evidence) and disease‐specific quality of life (low‐quality evidence). We found no evidence that antibiotic eardrops were more effective in terms of ear discharge recurrences (low‐quality evidence) or general quality of life (low‐quality evidence). 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that antibiotic and corticosteroid combination eardrops are more effective than eardrops containing antibiotics only in terms of resolution of ear discharge within two weeks and duration of ear discharge, but not in terms of resolution of ear discharge at two to four weeks or tube blockage. There is a substantial risk of publication bias, therefore these findings should be interpreted with caution. 
