Unintended consequences of school‐based measures to manage the COVID‐19 pandemic
Why is this question important? 
Countries worldwide have taken many public health and social measures to prevent and control the spread of SARS‐CoV‐2, a highly contagious respiratory virus responsible for COVID‐19. A range of measures have been put in place to minimise transmission of SARS‐CoV‐2 within schools and the wider community. Schools have the potential to be settings of high viral transmission because they involve extended interactions amongst people in close proximity. A previous review located and examined studies on the effectiveness of such school‐based measures regarding SARS‐CoV‐2 transmission. It is equally important to look at their unintended consequences on health and society in order that policymakers and parents can make informed decisions. Unintended consequences of a public health measure may be beneficial or harmful (or a mix of both). A public health measure may result in a mix of benefits and harms. For this review, we planned to examine the unintended consequences of measures designed to prevent and control the spread of SARS‐CoV‐2 in schools. This review can therefore be seen as complementing the previous review on the effectiveness of such measures.    
What did we do? 
Firstly, we searched nine databases for studies that assessed any measure put in place in the school settings (primary or secondary schools, or both) to prevent transmission of the virus. We considered all types of studies and a broad range of outcomes. 
Secondly, we grouped the identified studies according to the types of measures they examined. We then described which approaches were used in the studies, where these were conducted, and which unintended consequences were evaluated.  
What did we find? 
We found 18 studies that matched our inclusion criteria. Five studies used ‘real‐life’ data (observational studies); five studies used data generated by a computer and based on a set of assumptions (modelling studies); three studies were experimental studies (e.g. laboratory‐based); and four studies used qualitative methods, meaning they based their findings on interviews with people. One study used mixed methods, combining numerical and non‐numerical (qualitative) information.  
