Disease management programmes for heart failure
Review question 
We investigated the effects of disease management programmes on death from heart failure or from any cause, hospital readmissions for heart failure or for any cause, adverse effects, quality of life and cost‐effectiveness, in adults who had been admitted to hospital at least once for heart failure. 
Background 
Heart failure affects a person’s quality of life, is a frequent cause of hospital admission and has a high risk of death. Traditional drug therapy is the main treatment, but people may benefit from additional support from disease management programmes that aim to provide ongoing support rather than crisis management. Such programmes may be run by specialist nurses, as clinic‐based interventions, or by multidisciplinary teams. Community‐based support of this kind could help to keep people out of hospital by improving day‐to‐day symptom management and providing an ‘early warning system’ for changes requiring medical attention. 
Selection criteria 
We conducted a comprehensive search for all studies investigating heart failure‐specific disease management interventions for adults who had been admitted to hospital at least once for heart failure (evidence current to 9 January 2018). 
Results and conclusions 
We included 47 studies, with a total of 10,869 participants. Twenty‐eight studies were case management interventions, seven were clinic‐based models, nine were multidisciplinary interventions and three could not be categorised as any of these. The average age of the people in most of the studies was between 67 and 80 years old, although 10 studies had younger participants on average, and one included mostly very elderly people. Most trials were in Europe and North America, but others took place in China, Taiwan, Iran and Japan. 
We found limited evidence for an effect on mortality due to heart failure, as few studies reported this outcome. There was some evidence that case management may reduce all‐cause mortality, and multidisciplinary interventions probably do, but clinic‐based studies appeared to have little or no effect on this. Readmissions due to heart failure and due to any cause were probably reduced by case management interventions. Clinic‐based interventions probably make little or no difference to heart failure readmissions and may result in little or no difference in readmissions for any cause. Multidisciplinary interventions may reduce the risk of readmission for heart failure or any cause. 
