Biofeedback for the treatment of irritable bowel syndrome
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effect of biofeedback therapy on the management of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS). 
Background 
IBS is a common disorder that includes both abdominal pain and changes in stool frequency or consistency. Biofeedback is a therapy in which participants use technology to track a process that is not normally under conscious control (e.g. heart rate, tension of the anal sphincter) in order to see how relaxed states of mind affect these measures. Researchers have proposed that achieving more relaxed states through the tool of biofeedback may help to improve the symptoms of IBS. 
Study Characteristics 
We searched for studies that compared biofeedback to either no treatment, sham treatment, or to other active treatments for IBS. We reviewed eight trials that included 300 total participants and assessed the effect of biofeedback on IBS. Each of these studies only included adults, and was carried out in an outpatient setting. The studies ranged from eight weeks to six months in length. The types of biofeedback devices varied, and included heart rate variability, measures of skin temperature or electrical resistance, and the tension of the muscles of the anus. 
Study Funding Sources 
None of the included trials disclosed funding sources.
Key Results 
Our primary clinical outcomes were global clinical improvement and quality of life.
Regarding overall improvement, three trials compared biofeedback to no treatment and found that biofeedback as part of a relaxation training program led to better symptom control than no treatment (very low‐certainty evidence). Two of these trials also compared biofeedback to an attention control and found minimal symptom improvement, but the effects of chance could not be ruled out because the evidence was of very low‐certainty. One trial found a greater symptom benefit with heart rate biofeedback compared to hypnotherapy (low‐certainty evidence). Of two trials comparing biofeedback to counseling, any apparent effect was minimal and the effect of chance could not be ruled out (very low‐certainty evidence). When rectosigmoidal biofeedback was compared to relaxation control, the effect favored the relaxation control. The addition of biofeedback to standard medical therapy was superior to medical therapy alone and to medical therapy plus sham biofeedback (low‐certainty evidence for both findings). 
Quality of Life 
A single trial looked specifically at overall quality of life. Quality of life improved both for those in the biofeedback group and those in the cognitive therapy group, but there was no overall difference between groups. 
