Treatments to reduce infection with the bacteria Staphylococcus aureus in eczema
Background 
The skin of people with eczema (atopic dermatitis) often contains high numbers of a type of bacteria called Staphylococcus aureus (S. aureus), which can cause skin infections. 
Eczema treatments intended to reduce S. aureus on the skin include antibiotics, treatments put on the skin, and antibacterial soaps/baths. It is unclear which treatments are helpful. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of treatments aimed at reducing S. aureus on the skin in people with atopic eczema. Eligible comparisons were similar treatments without anti‐S. aureus actions. We included 41 studies involving 1753 participants (evidence is current to October 2018). 
Study characteristics 
Included studies assessed a range of treatments, which they compared with placebos (an identical but inactive treatment), no treatment, other treatment, vehicle (inactive ingredient(s) which help deliver an active treatment), or textile without the anti‐S.aureus component. 
Studies were conducted worldwide, and included males and females. Twelve studies recruited children; four, adults; 19, both; and six were unclear; where reported, the average participant age ranged from 1.1 to 34.6 years. Eczema severity varied from mild to severe. Treatment durations ranged from 10 minutes to 3 months; total study durations, from 15 weeks to 27 months. 
Key results 
Outcomes were measured from treatment start. We classed outcomes as short‐term when treatment duration was less than four weeks, and long‐term when treatment was given for more than four weeks. 
People may be more likely to experience slightly increased short‐term improvement with topical steroid/antibiotic combinations than with steroid only (low‐quality evidence, one study of infected eczema and two studies with unspecified infection). There is probably little or no difference between the combination group and the steroid only groups in short‐term impact on quality of life (QoL) (moderate‐quality evidence, one study of infected children). Antibiotic resistance was similar between groups in the long term, but we are uncertain of this result due to very low‐quality evidence (one study of infected children). 
When compared to placebo, oral antibiotics may make no difference to short‐term improvement (low‐quality evidence, two studies: one in uninfected infants and children; the other in mainly infected infants and children). For short‐term QoL, there is probably little or no difference between the groups (moderate‐quality evidence, one study of infected infants and children). Short‐term antibiotic resistance was similar in both groups, but we are uncertain if there is a true difference as the quality of evidence was very low (two studies of infants and children, infected in one study and uninfected in the other). 
Bleach baths may make no difference to short‐term improvement when compared to placebo (low‐quality evidence, one study of uninfected participants). There is also probably little or no difference in short‐term QoL in children of unspecified infective status (one study; moderate‐quality evidence); based on the same study, we are uncertain if short‐term antibiotic resistance was different between groups (very low‐quality evidence). 
