Drug treatments for sexual offenders or those at risk of offending
Background 
Victim surveys suggest that sexual offending is common, and survivors experience psychological problems. However, much offending goes undetected because of under‐reporting and failure to successfully prosecute offenders. 
Medications used to treat sex offenders ('antilibidinal' medications) act by limiting the sexual drive (libido). There are two types, those which work by suppressing testosterone (e.g., progestogens, antiandrogens, and gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) analogues), and those that reduce sexual drive by other mechanisms (i.e., antipsychotics and serotonergic antidepressants (SSRIs)). 
We reviewed evidence for the effectiveness of such drugs in people who were convicted or thought to be at risk of committing sexual offences. 
Search date 
The evidence in this review is current to July 2014.
Study characteristics 
We found seven randomised trials involving 138 participants, which provided data on 123. All were male, aged between 16 and 68 years. Offending ranged from very serious (e.g., rape) to minor criminality (e.g., exhibitionism). Comparators included placebo (five studies), psychological treatment (one study), and a combination of psychological and pharmacological treatment (one study). Five studies took place in the community and two in a secure hospital. Duration varied between three and 13 months. 
Six studies examined the effectiveness of three testosterone‐suppressing drugs: cyproterone acetate (CPA), ethinyl oestradiol (EO), and medroxyprogesterone acetate (MPA). In two of these studies, MPA was given alongside a psychological therapy (assertiveness training or imaginal desensitisation). The seventh study assessed the effectiveness of two antipsychotics (benperidol and chlorpromazine) versus placebo. Meta‐analysis was not possible due to heterogeneity of interventions, comparator groups, study designs, and other issues. 
Results 
Two studies reported reoffending rates formally. One trial of intramuscular MPA plus imaginal desensitisation (ID) found no reoffending at two‐year follow‐up for the intervention group (n = 10 versus one relapse within the group treated by ID alone). A three‐armed trial of oral MPA, alone or in combination with psychological treatment, reported a 20% rate of reoffending amongst those in the combined treatment arm (n = 15) and 50% of those in the psychological treatment only group (n = 12). Notably, all those in the 'oral MPA only' arm (n = 5) dropped out immediately, despite treatment being court mandated. Two studies did not report reoffending rates as they both took place in a secure psychiatric facility from which none were discharged. Three community studies did not formally report reoffending at all, focusing largely on 'abnormal sexual activity'. 
Secondary outcomes: Studies reported a variety of secondary outcomes. Results suggested that the frequency of self reported deviant sexual fantasies may be reduced by testosterone‐suppressing drugs, but not the deviancy itself. Where measured, hormonal levels, particularly levels of testosterone, tended to correlate with measures of sexual activity and anxiety. One study measured anxiety formally; one study measured anger/aggression. 
Adverse events: Six studies provided information on adverse events and none tested the effects of testosterone‐suppressing drugs beyond six to eight months. The most severe were reported in a trial of antipsychotic medication. Reported side effects in two trials of oral MPA and CPA included considerable weight gain. Side effects of intramuscular MPA led to discontinuation in some participants. Important increases in depression and excess salivation were reported in one trial of oral MPA. No deaths and no suicide attempts were reported in any study. 
We conclude that these seven trials (published more than 20 years ago), examining only a limited number of drugs, provide a poor evidence base to guide practice. Not only were the trials small, they were of short duration, included varied participants, and none trialled the newer drugs currently in use, particularly SSRIs or GnRH analogues. The results of this review, therefore, do not allow firm conclusions to be drawn regarding pharmacological interventions as an effective intervention for reducing sexual offending. 
New studies are needed that address these deficits. Data should also be collected on the characteristics of those who refuse, drop out, and complete treatment. 
