Which treatments that affect the whole body work best to treat severe skin reactions (Stevens‐Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis)? 
Key messages 
Treating severe skin reactions with etanercept (a medicine that acts to reduce a specific part of the immune system), rather than steroids (which broadly reduces the immune system), may result in a lower number of deaths from Stevens‐Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. 
We are uncertain about the effectiveness of other treatments, such as steroids and cyclosporin (medicines that act on the immune system) or immunoglobulins (naturally produced antibodies). We need more studies set across multiple sites that compare the effectiveness and safety of the most important treatments. 
What causes severe skin reactions? 
Certain medications may trigger severe skin reactions known as Stevens‐Johnson syndrome (SJS), a more severe condition known as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), or an overlap syndrome (SJS/TEN). Large skin blisters form, which leave painful sores. The affected skin eventually peels off (necrosis). Cases are rare, but can be fatal if they lead to infections or problems affecting other organs. 
Severe skin reactions are medical emergencies, and require treatment in a hospital, often in an intensive care or a burns unit. Treatments include supportive care, such as fluids and nutrition, wound care, and painkilling medications. 
What did we want to find out? 
In addition to supportive care, treatments taken by mouth or injected include medicines that act on the immune system (e.g. etanercept) and intravenous immunoglobulins (antibodies). 
We wanted to find out how well these treatments work to treat severe skin reactions.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies of all currently used treatments taken by mouth or injected to treat SJS, TEN, or SJS/TEN overlap. We were interested in studies that compared one of these treatments against another, or against supportive treatment alone to determine whether one worked better than the other.  
