Non‐pharmacological interventions for the management of patient‐reported fatigue in rheumatoid arthritis 
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research that has investigated the effects of non‐pharmacological treatments for fatigue in people with rheumatoid arthritis.  
After searching for all relevant studies, 24 were identified for inclusion in the review with a total of 2882 people. The findings are summarised as follows. 
‐ Physical activity has a small benefit for managing fatigue in people with rheumatoid arthritis. 
‐ Psychosocial therapy has a small benefit for managing fatigue in people with rheumatoid arthritis. 
‐ No other interventions showed a difference in managing fatigue in people with rheumatoid arthritis. This may have happened by chance. 
The information available regarding side effects and complications of the interventions was not very informative although it is unlikely that any side effects would cause a serious problem. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what are non‐pharmacological interventions? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. Fatigue is also a problem for people with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Non‐pharmacological interventions include any treatment that is not a registered drug, such as physical activity and psychosocial interventions (talking therapies). A talking therapy could include meeting with a counsellor, alone or in a group. It might involve writing about your thoughts and feelings in a journal and talking about it, problem‐solving, setting goals and getting feedback about self‐management. It might also include sessions on pain management and relaxation; and coping with depression. There are other non‐pharmacological treatments that have been tested for their effect upon fatigue in people with rheumatoid arthritis. These include different dietary supplements and studies on the effects of giving people access to information about their own disease status. These treatments if supported by the overall body of evidence would allow the patient to have some personal control of their fatigue. 
What happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who use non‐pharmacological interventions? 
‐ At the end of the intervention, people receiving a control had a mean score of 63 on a scale of 0 to 100 with a lower score meaning less fatigue. 
