How good are ultrasound, CT, MRI, and PET‐CT for identifying spread of disease in the body among people with melanoma? 
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out which imaging tests are better for identifying spread of disease among people with a first diagnosis of melanoma (primary staging) and among people with possible recurrence of melanoma (re‐staging). We looked at the evidence for ultrasound, CT, MRI, and PET‐CT and included 39 studies to answer these questions. 
Why are imaging tests for melanoma important? 
Melanoma is one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer, with potential for metastases (cancer cells) to spread to the lymph nodes and other organs of the body. To make sure that people with melanoma receive the most appropriate and effective treatment, it is important to identify whether the disease has spread and to which parts of the body it has spread. This is called 'staging of disease'. Staging is done to find out if a melanoma has spread to regional lymph nodes or to lymph nodes close to the original melanoma, and to determine if the melanoma has spread to lymph nodes in other parts of the body or to organs of the body such as the liver or the brain (distant metastases). Imaging tests are tools that can be used to help find out how much the disease has spread. Several new treatments are now available for reducing the risk of spread of melanoma and for treating melanoma when it has spread. 
What was studied in the review? 
The review includes four imaging tests that create images of the body in different ways. Ultrasound uses high‐frequency sound waves to create images, CT scans use ionising radiation in the form of X‐rays (a very low dose of radiation), and MRI uses large magnets and non‐ionising radiation in the form of radio waves (which are not harmful) to generate images of the body. PET‐CT requires injection of a weakly radioactive substance (FDG). The PET part of the scan identifies areas of the body that take up a lot of FDG (indicating possibly cancerous cells), and the CT part of the scan helps to improve image quality and to more accurately pinpoint areas using more FDG. Ultrasound can also be performed along with a fairly simple procedure called 'fine needle aspiration cytology' (FNAC), by which a very fine needle is used to take a small sample of cells from a lymph node that looks suspicious on ultrasound. A microscope is then used to identify whether or not the cells are malignant. 
Imaging can be used at different time points after diagnosis of melanoma. Healthcare providers can use imaging to look at the regional lymph nodes closest to the melanoma before a type of surgery called sentinel lymph node biopsy is performed. Sentinel lymph node biopsy takes out the lymph nodes that are most likely to have metastases inside them so they can be tested in a laboratory. Imaging can also be used after sentinel lymph node biopsy or in people with higher‐risk melanoma to look for any spread of disease. Imaging can be used in people who were treated for melanoma at an earlier point and who might be having a recurrence of their disease. 
What are the main results of the review? 
Ultrasound of regional lymph nodes before sentinel lymph node biopsy 
We found 11 relevant studies including 2614 people. Three of these studies compared ultrasound on its own to ultrasound combined with FNAC. Results suggest that the combined procedure correctly identifies around one‐fifth of people with metastases in the lymph nodes with very few false positive results (people with incorrect diagnosis of metastasis). These results can be illustrated by imagining a group of 1000 people with melanoma who are going to have sentinel lymph node biopsy, of whom 237 (24%) have metastases in the lymph nodes. The combination of ultrasound with FNAC potentially allows 43 people with lymph node metastases to be identified and avoid a sentinel lymph node biopsy, at a cost of two people with false positive results who might go on to have the wrong treatment. Those with metastases in the lymph nodes that are missed on ultrasound (false negatives) will be identified on subsequent SLNB. 
Whole body imaging (detection of any metastases) 
We found 24 studies, but only nine were clear about the point in the time course of disease that imaging was carried out. Six studies including 492 people looked at imaging for primary staging following a confirmed diagnosis of melanoma, and three studies in 589 people evaluated re‐staging of disease in people with possible recurrence of disease. 
Most of the studies (6/9) considered PET‐CT, two in comparison to CT alone, and three studies examined the use of ultrasound. We did not find any suitable studies of MRI in these groups. 
Overall results suggest that PET‐CT is better for correctly identifying people with metastatic spread of disease who might be having a recurrence of disease (re‐staging) than people who have a new diagnosis of melanoma (primary staging). PET‐CT also seems to be better than CT for identifying spread of disease in both groups of people, but studies were very small and results might not be reliable. 
How reliable are the results of the studies included in this review? 
In most of our studies, a reliable diagnosis of spread of disease (or reference standard) was made by performing biopsy and by following up with people over time using clinical assessment and imaging. There was often a lack of detail on how patients were followed up and which tests were used. Lots of studies did not include people at clearly defined time points in the disease process, making it difficult to assess the relevance of their results. Reporting of application and interpretation of tests was poor. 
To whom do the results of this review apply? 
Thirty‐three studies were done in Europe (85%), and the rest in North America (n = 4), Asia (n = 1), or Oceania (n = 1). The average age of people in the studies was between 50 and 67 years, and around half were men. Studies mostly included people with melanoma on any part of the body, but two included only people with melanoma on the head or neck. Studies often included people at different stages of disease, and we were not able to look at the accuracy of tests for people at any particular disease stage. Studies were small, and their results might not match what happens in real life. 
What are the implications of this review? 
Reviewers found some evidence to support the use of imaging with ultrasound combined with FNAC before sentinel lymph node biopsy, but further work is needed to establish cost‐effectiveness. Limited evidence is available for whole body imaging for primary staging or re‐staging of disease. Available evidence is focused on PET‐CT; there are few comparisons with CT and no comparisons with MRI. Future research needs to look at more than test accuracy and must consider the effects of different imaging tests on treatment decisions for patients. 
