Interleukin‐1 inhibitors for acute gout
Background: what is an acute gout flare and what are interleukin‐1 inhibitors? 
Gout results from the deposition of crystals of uric acid in and around joints. The main treatments for gout are drugs that lower uric acid blood levels and resolve the crystal deposits. Acute gout flares result in significant pain and disability and treatment aims at reducing the pain and resolving the arthritis quickly. 
Interleukin‐1 inhibitors (canakinumab, rilonacept and anakinra) modify the immune system and reduce inflammation. They can be injected in a single dose or repeated doses. 
Study characteristics 
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of interleukin‐1 inhibitors for treating acute gout flares. After searching for all relevant studies to 19 June 2013, we included four studies (806 participants, mean age 52 years, 92% men). Three studies assessed the use of a single injection of canakinumab (10 to 150 mg) compared with a single suboptimal 40 mg intramuscular injection of triamcinolone acetonide (steroid injection) and one study assessed the use of a single subcutaneous injection of rilonacept 320 mg compared with maximum doses of oral indomethacin (50 mg three times a day for three days) (a non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID)) in people with acute gout. 
Key results: what happens to people with an acute gout flare who are injected with canakinumab compared with triamcinolone acetonide 
Pain on a scale of 0 to 100 points (lower scores mean reduced pain)
‐ People who took canakinumab rated their pain to be 11 points lower at three days compared with people who had an injection of triamcinolone acetonide. 
‐ People who had a subcutaneous injection of canakinumab rated their pain to be 25 on a scale of 0 to 100. 
‐ People who had an injection of triamcinolone acetonide rated their pain to be 36 on a scale of 0 to 100. 
Swelling of the joint
‐ 12 more people out of 100 reported no swelling in their joint three days after treatment with canakinumab compared with people who had an injection of triamcinolone acetonide. 
‐ 44 people out of 100 who had canakinumab reported no swelling.
‐ 32 people out of 100 who had triamcinolone reported no swelling.
Participant assessment of good or excellent treatment response
‐ 17 more people out of 100 rated their treatment as good or excellent after three days' treatment with canakinumab compared with people who had an injection of triamcinolone. 
‐ 64 people out of 100 who had canakinumab reported a good or excellent treatment response. 
‐ 47 people out of 100 who had triamcinolone reported a good or excellent treatment response. 
Withdrawal from the study due to side effects
Participant withdrawal due to side effects
‐ 1 out of 100 people withdrew due to side effects after treatment with canakinumab or injection of triamcinolone. 
Side effects
‐ 10 more people out of 100 had a side effect after treatment with canakinumab compared with people who had an injection of triamcinolone. 
‐ 61 people out of 100 who had canakinumab had a side effect.
‐ 51 people out of 100 who had triamcinolone had a side effect.
Quality of the evidence 
We found moderate‐quality evidence that, compared with a single intramuscular injection of the steroid, triamcinolone acetonide, canakinumab injection probably improves pain, swelling and the number of good or excellent treatment responses, but probably results in more side effects. Possible side effects included back pain, headache, high blood pressure, joint pain and a rise in the liver enzyme gamma‐glutamyl transpeptidase. Function or quality of life were not measured. Further research may change the estimates. 
There was low‐quality evidence from one study that rilonacept injection may improve pain less than indomethacin and may not be associated with an increase in side effects. Inflammation, disability, quality of life and participant assessment of treatment success were not measured. Further research is likely to change these estimates. 
We found no studies comparing canakinumab with more commonly used therapies for acute gout flares such as NSAIDs or colchicine. 
