Medical treatment for people with acute pancreatitis (sudden inflammation of the pancreas)
Background 
The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen (tummy) that secretes several digestive enzymes (substances that enable and speed up chemical reactions in the body) into the pancreatic ductal system before it empties into the small bowel. It also contains the Islets of Langerhans, which secrete several hormones including insulin (helps regulate blood sugar). Acute pancreatitis is life‐threatening illness characterized by sudden inflammation of the pancreas, which can lead to failure of other organs, such as the lungs and kidneys. There is a lot of research into different medical treatments for the treatment of acute pancreatitis, but it is not clear what benefits each treatment has, or indeed if any medical treatment is beneficial apart from supportive treatment. This care includes body hydration and intensive care treatment for people with organ failure (to support the failing organs). We sought to resolve this issue by searching for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) whose results were reported to 7 October 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We included 84 RCTs with 8234 participants in this review. Six trials (658 participants) did not report any of the outcomes of interest for this review. In the remaining 78 trials, 210 participants were excluded after randomisation. Thus, a total of 7366 participants in 78 trials contributed to one or more outcomes for this review. Apart from the comparison of whether antibiotics should be used, the other comparisons included only a small percentage of people with pancreatic necrosis (an extremely severe form of pancreatitis, which results in pancreatic destruction). Most trials included only the severe form of acute pancreatitis or included both mild and severe forms of pancreatitis. 
Source of funding: seven trials were not funded or were funded by agencies without vested interest in results. Twenty‐one trials were partly or fully funded by pharmaceutical companies. The source of funding was not available from the remaining trials. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of evidence was low for all the measures because the trials were at unclear or high risk of bias (a systematic error or deviation from the truth that affects the results, favouring one treatment over another) and were small trials. As a result, further studies are required on this topic. 
