Aminoadamantanes versus other antiviral drugs for chronic hepatitis C
Background 
Hepatitis C virus is mainly transmitted by contact to infected blood. Chronic hepatitis C infection affects around 3% of the world population and progresses slowly. Most patients present without symptoms, or with symptoms like fatigue or liver‐related morbidity. Frequently, the disease is discovered by coincidence because of abnormal laboratory results. Around 5% to 40% of all infected patients will develop severe liver damage which can cause severe liver‐related morbidities and eventually death. Current treatment consists of pegylated interferon‐alpha plus ribavirin and in some subgroups of patients these agents are combined with telaprevir or boceprevir, or other direct acting antivirals. In about 70% of patients with chronic hepatitis C, it is possible to eradicate the virus from the blood, but the clinical effects are not known. Aminoadamantanes (another group of antiviral drugs), mostly amantadine, have been tested in several clinical trials. The authors have previously systematically reviewed amantadine versus placebo or no intervention and found no significant effects of amantadine. 
Review questions and study characteristics 
Only amantadine has been tested in randomised clinical trials including participants with chronic hepatitis C. The main goal of these trials was to investigate whether amantadine as a single therapy or amantadine in combination with other antiviral therapies, compared with placebo or no intervention (with or without antiviral therapy), could increase the proportion of patients with virus eradication from the blood. This review evaluates whether amantadine versus other antiviral drugs has any beneficial or harmful effect in patients with chronic hepatitis C. The trials compared amantadine with ribavirin, mycophenolate mofetil, interferon‐alpha, or interferon‐gamma. The primary outcomes were the composite of all‐cause mortality or liver‐related morbidity and adverse events. This review includes six randomised clinical trials with a total of 581 patients. 
