Music interventions for acquired brain injury
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effects of music interventions on functional outcomes in adults with acquired brain injury. 
Background 
Acquired brain injury (brain damage through accident or illness, including stroke, that is unlikely to degenerate further) can cause problems with movement, language, sensation, thinking, or emotion. Any of these can severely reduce a survivor's quality of life. Many new treatments have been developed to help recover lost functions and to prevent depression. Music interventions involve using music to aid rehabilitation. Specific treatments may include using rhythm to aid movement and walking; playing music instruments to improve movement; singing to improve speaking and voice quality; listening to music to improve pain management, mood, or thinking; and playing and composing music to improve a sense of well‐being. 
Study characteristics 
We aimed to identify research studies that tested music interventions combined with standard care for adults with acquired brain injury who were receiving rehabilitation in hospital or community settings. We looked for research that tested the effects of music interventions on walking, moving, communicating, thinking, emotions, pain, and well‐being. Interventions included moving to music, singing, listening to music, composing, playing musical instruments, or a combination of these. We identified and included 29 trials involving 775 adult participants. The evidence is current to June 2015. 
Key results 
The results suggest that music interventions using rhythm may be beneficial for improving walking in people with stroke, and this may improve quality of life. Music interventions may be beneficial for improving the speed of repetitive arm movements and communication in people with stroke. Music interventions that use a strong beat within music may be more effective than interventions where a strong beat is used without music. Treatment delivered by a trained music therapist might be more effective than treatment delivered by other professionals. Information was insufficient to examine the effects of music interventions on other outcomes. We found no studies that reported on harmful effects. 
