A review of which advocacy interventions work to help abused women, and under what circumstances, and which women are likely to benefit 
Background 
Partner abuse (domestic violence) is common worldwide. It includes coercive control, physical, sexual, economic, emotional and/or economic abuse. Trained people, known as advocates, can actively support abused women to make safety plans, cope with and take steps to reduce the abuse, and access community resources. This is known as advocacy. Advocacy can take many forms. 
Review question 
We wished to understand which advocacy interventions work to help abused women, under what circumstances, and which women may benefit. This is called a realist approach. It assumes that we often develop a superficial knowledge of how something happens (e.g. how advocacy works), based on simple measurements and observations. A realist approach tries to understand what is really happening at a deeper level by exploring different effects in different conditions. 
Methods 
We searched scientific literature worldwide up to January 2019 for any relevant studies.
Key findings 
We found 98 studies from 15 countries. Of the 88 core studies, 37 asked advocates about their views and experiences and seven asked abused women about advocacy (two of these also asked staff). The other 44 core studies helped us understand the way advocacy works and how effective it is. We included 10 additional studies that did not fit the original criteria but added useful information, as befitting a realist approach. Of these, three were randomised controlled trials (RCTs; a type of experiment in which participants are randomly allocated to two or more interventions), one was an intervention process evaluation, one was a qualitative (e.g. focus groups, interviews) study, two studies used mixed methods (a combination of qualitative and quantitative research) to explore women's experiences, two were surveys of women, and one was a mixed methods study of women and staff. We were unable to obtain the full texts of two studies that we thought might be core and three further relevant studies are still ongoing. 
Advocacy interventions varied considerably in duration, participating staff (e.g. nurses, psychologists, social workers), and setting (e.g. healthcare settings, domestic violence refuges or shelters). 
In the studies, women and advocates agreed that the following were all important parts of advocacy: education and information on abuse and on women's rights and sources of help (resources); active referral to, and help in accessing other services; assessment of risk of repeat abuse; and safety planning to avoid it. Trust in the advocate is important and more likely when the advocate and the woman share an ethnic background or the advocate was also abused. Advocates must help women consider their best options, depending on things like ethnicity, immigration status, where they live, the severity and type of the abuse experienced and finances. There are trade‐offs when making decisions to reduce the abuse and women's safety was not necessarily at greatest risk from staying with the abuser. Advocacy could potentially have some benefits for abused women, if undertaken for long enough, but its goals need to match each woman's needs. It may take months to have an effect. Two studies (one involving the police and one in an antenatal clinic) found that where abuse is severe to start with, some interventions may possibly prompt the abuser to increase the abuse. Advocates want to help women and can get stressed if they do not feel helpful enough, so they need support from organisations and other advocates, including repeat training, debriefs, and funding to do their job well. 
Quality of the evidence 
Our confidence in the key findings varied between moderate and high. However, some themes (the effect on outcomes of women being physically dependent on their abuser, being pregnant or having children) were less well supported by evidence and further, good‐quality research is needed to confirm findings. Researchers should be careful when choosing how to measure abuse so that measures have more meaning for advocates and abused women, thus increasing the usefulness of future reviews. Further evidence from studies where participants are followed up for years would be helpful. More economic analyses are needed to establish if current advocacy interventions are the best way of spending money for abused women. 
