Regular painkillers in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Background 
About 10% to 15% of the adult western population have gallstones. Between 1% and 4% become symptomatic each year. Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the mainstay treatment for symptomatic gallstones. More than half a million cholecystectomies are performed per year in the US alone. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of gallbladder through a keyhole, also known as port) is now the preferred method of cholecystectomy. 
Laparoscopic surgery is associated with less pain than open surgery for removal of the gallbladder but postoperative pain is one the major reasons for delayed hospital discharge after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Administration of painkillers may be an effective way of decreasing the pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The different types of painkillers include those that decrease the inflammation (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs or NSAIDS), which include drugs that are available over‐the‐counter such as paracetamol and ibuprofen and other drugs that are not available over‐the‐counter such as diclofenac; opium‐like painkillers such as codeine and morphine, and some painkillers that are used to treat fits but also possess the ability to decrease the pain such as gabapentin and pregabalin. The last two classes of drugs are available only as prescription drugs except for low dose codeine in some countries. The benefits and harms of giving painkillers on a regular basis in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy is unknown. We sought to answer these questions by reviewing the medical literature and obtaining information from randomised clinical trials for benefits (where people are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) and comparative non‐randomised studies for treatment‐related harms. We compared the regular use of painkillers with no regular use of painkillers (ie, painkillers were administered as and when required) and the different type of painkillers. 
