Oncoplastic breast‐conserving surgery (O‐BCS) for women with primary breast cancer
Background 
Traditional surgery for early breast cancer is standard breast‐conserving surgery (S‐BCS) which aims to keep as much of the breast as possible. For women with large tumours compared to their breast size it can be difficult to conserve the breast whilst ensuring all the tumour is removed and may mean that mastectomy is needed. The most important part of surgical treatment for breast cancer is removing all cancer. In recent years, oncoplastic breast surgery techniques have been used to conserve the breast whilst removing breast cancer by applying the principles of plastic surgery, resulting in better cosmetic results. Oncoplastic breast‐conserving surgery (O‐BCS) may also result in better patient satisfaction and quality of life. 
Traditionally, surgeons have either preserved the breast tissue by removing the cancerous lump (S‐BCS) or reconstructing immediately after mastectomy. O‐BCS involves removing cancer and either moving/adjusting the remaining breast tissue around (volume displacement) or bringing in tissue from elsewhere to fill the defect after breast cancer removal (volume replacement). There are many techniques that fall under O‐BCS that we have listed in full in other parts of the review; however, all are similar in their principle. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of O‐BCS (that is, removing some of the breast tissue and then reconstructing the remaining breast by either mobilising the breast tissue (mammaplasty or volume displacement) or bringing the tissue from elsewhere (partial breast reconstruction or volume replacement)) compared to other S‐BCS (that is, removing the tumour in the breast without the need for further breast adjustment) or mastectomy (that is, removing all the breast tissue with or without reconstruction). We studied the effect on cancer‐related (local recurrence, disease‐free survival and overall survival), quality of life and cosmetic outcomes in women with breast cancer. 
