18F PET with flutemetamol for the early diagnosis of Alzheimer's disease dementia and other dementias in people with mild cognitive impairment 
Review question: In people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI), does using a 18F PET scan with flutemetamol predict the progression to Alzheimer's disease dementia (ADD) and other dementias? 
Background  Due to global ageing, the number of people with dementia is expected to increase dramatically in the next few decades. Diagnosing dementia at an early stage is desirable, but there is no widespread agreement on the best approach. A range of simple pen and paper tests used by healthcare professionals can assess people with poor memory or cognitive impairment. Whether or not using special PET scans that detect amyloid —one of the hallmarks of Alzheimer's disease— improves our ability to predict the progression from MCI to ADD or other forms of dementia remains unclear. Since these tests are expensive, it is important that they provide additional benefits. 
Aim 
We aimed to evaluate the accuracy of the 18F‐flutemetamol PET scan in identifying those people with MCI who clinically progress to ADD, other types of dementia, or any form of dementia over a period of time. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2017. We found two studies evaluating the progression from MCI to ADD. The studies included 252 MCI eligible participants, with 243 participants that had follow‐up. Of these, 127 were women. The average age in one study with two years of follow‐up was 72.7 + 7.09 years. In the other study with three years of follow‐up, the average age was 71.1 + 8.62 years. The setting in one study was memory clinics. 
Study funding sources: both studies were funded by the test manufacturer.
Quality of the evidence 
The main limitation of this review was that our findings were based on only two studies, with not enough details on how the people were selected, how the interpretation of the PET scan was made in one study, how the clinical diagnosis of dementia was established in the other study. The studies were considered to be at high risk of bias due to potential conflicts of interest detected. 
Key findings 
In this review, we found that the 18F‐flutemetamol PET scan, as a single test, in one study with 19 participants included with 2 years of follow‐up, had a sensitivity of 89% and a specificity of 80%. This means that in a cohort with 100 participants with MCI and a proportion of progression in this study of 47%, we would expect 42 of 47 MCI participants with a positive result for 18F‐flutemetamol scan to progress to ADD, and 5 participants to be falsely positive. In addition, we would expect 42 of 53 participants who will not progress to ADD to have a negative result for 18F‐flutemetamol, and 11 to be falsely negative. 
