The timing of inhalation of hypertonic saline in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether the timing (in relation to airway clearance techniques or in relation to time of day) of hypertonic saline (a strong, sterile, salt water solution) through a nebuliser improves the physical properties of sputum, stimulates cough, improves clinical outcomes (such as lung function), and improves the perceived effect of airway clearance techniques in cystic fibrosis. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Regular inhalation of hypertonic saline improves the clinical outcomes of people with cystic fibrosis. It is not certain whether it is better to inhale hypertonic saline before, during or after clearing the airways with physical techniques, nor whether it is better to inhale it in the morning or in the evening. We looked for trials that compared these different timing regimens. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 28 February 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review included three studies with 77 people with cystic fibrosis aged between 18 and 64 years of age. The studies looked at the impact of the timing of hypertonic saline inhalation in relation to airway clearance techniques. The studies reported immediate outcomes after inhalation of hypertonic saline before, during or after physical airway clearance techniques. All studies were short, involving only one to three treatments of each timing regimen. 
Key results 
While outcomes such as lung function did not show any difference between the regimens, people with cystic fibrosis perceived that inhaling hypertonic saline before or during airway clearance techniques may be more effective and satisfying than inhaling hypertonic saline after airway clearance. No studies comparing morning and evening inhalation were found. The long‐term efficacy of hypertonic saline has only been established for twice‐daily inhalations; however, if only one dose per day is tolerated, the time of day at which it is inhaled could be based on convenience or tolerability until further evidence is available. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, the quality of the evidence was low. The only issues perhaps affecting the quality related to the fact that it was not possible for participants to be blinded to the treatment they received. However, because the studies were short‐term and most of the significant results were based on perceived efficacy, timing of administration of hypertonic saline needs further study. 
