Radiofrequency denervation for chronic low back pain
Background Low back pain is a widespread problem that has major social and economic consequences. In all, 85% to 90% of low back pain cases are classified as 'non‐specific'. Most patients with low back pain are treated successfully in primary care, but approximately 10% to 15% develop chronic symptoms (lasting longer than three months). Chronic low back pain can come from any part of the back that has a nerve supply capable of transmitting pain signals. These sources include discs, vertebrae, sacroiliac joints, facet joints, muscles, ligaments and other structures. Pain specialists try to identify the source of low back pain by using nerve blocks. They numb individual spinal nerves with anaesthetic injections to see if this leads to improvement in back symptoms. With substantial pain relief, they attempt to eliminate pain for a longer time by heating the spinal nerves with radiofrequency waves to ensure that the pain stimulus cannot be passed. This invasive procedure is called radiofrequency denervation. At this time, the effectiveness of this approach has not been proven. 
Study characteristics The evidence is current to May 2014. This review includes 23 randomised controlled trials with a total of 1309 participants whose chronic low back pain was evaluated with nerve blocks or other diagnostic tests. Both men and women, with a mean age of 50.6 years, were included. Patients with a positive response to a diagnostic block or to discography were given radiofrequency denervation, a placebo or a comparison treatment. 
Key results No high‐quality evidence shows that radiofrequency denervation provides pain relief for patients with chronic low back pain. Similarly, no convincing evidence suggests that this treatment improves function. Moderate‐quality evidence suggests that radiofrequency denervation might better relieve facet joint pain and improve function over the short term when compared with placebo. Evidence of very low to low quality shows that radiofrequency denervation might relieve facet joint pain as well as steroid injections. For patients with disc pain, only small long‐term effects on pain relief and improved function are shown. For patients with SI joint pain, radiofrequency denervation had no effect over the short term and a smaller effect (based on one study) one to six months after treatment when compared with placebo. For low back pain suspected to arise from other sources, the results were inconclusive. Radiofrequency denervation is an invasive procedure that can cause a variety of complications. 
