Oral immunotherapy for the treatment of peanut allergy
Allergy to peanut can result in potentially life‐threatening reactions and, on occasions, death. Unlike many other forms of food allergy, allergy to peanut is typically life‐long. There is currently no cure for peanut allergy and people with this allergy must constantly be careful to avoid accidentally eating peanut or peanut‐containing foods.  If a person with a peanut allergy accidentally ingests peanut, he or she may develop serious allergic reactions necessitating emergency treatment with epinephrine (adrenaline). 
The overall goal of allergen‐specific oral immunotherapy (OIT) for peanut allergy is to reduce and, if possible, eliminate the risk of further reactions associated with exposure to peanuts. Most people who have reactions to peanut have an immediate type (also sometimes known as IgE‐mediated) reaction in which symptoms typically develop within minutes of exposure to peanut protein and it is for this group that allergen‐specific OIT is a potential treatment approach.  It is not considered suitable for those who experience more delayed (also sometimes known as non‐IgE mediated) reactions.  Treatment involves giving people with peanut allergy very small doses of peanut protein by mouth and gradually increasing the amount being administered (the build‐up phase). Once the desired dose has been achieved, this is followed by the patient taking the same dose of peanut every day for a set period of time (maintenance phase).  As giving doses of peanut to someone with a peanut allergy has the potential to introduce allergic reactions, participants' safety needs to be carefully monitored during studies of peanut OIT. 
We found one small trial undertaken in 28 children aged 1 to 16 years with confirmed peanut allergy. The study did not include children who had moderate to severe asthma or who had had severe anaphylaxis (a severe allergic reaction that may result in death) because of their peanut allergy. The authors randomised children to intervention or placebo in a 2:1 ratio. Intervention arm children received peanut flour whereas control arm participants received oat flour. The 48‐week trial showed that treatment with peanut OIT enabled children receiving OIT to substantially increase the amount of peanut flour they ate in comparison with those in the placebo arm without having an allergic reaction.  However, almost half of the children (nine out of 19) receiving OIT had an allergic reaction due to the OIT which required antihistamines, and two had more serious reactions to the treatment which required adrenaline (epinephrine).  
Although promising, based on the findings of this one small trial, we cannot recommend that peanut OIT be used routinely for people with peanut allergy. There is a need for further larger studies investigating safer OIT regimens and establishing the long‐term effectiveness of OIT after treatment is stopped. 
