Antiviral treatment for Bell's palsy
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of antiviral therapy (drugs used specifically to treat viral infections), alone or in combination with any other therapy, on Bell's palsy. Our focus in this updated review was combined therapy with antiviral drugs and corticosteroids (which are drugs used to reduce inflammation) as there is already good evidence that corticosteroids can reduce rates of incomplete recovery from Bell's palsy. 
Background 
Bell's palsy is a disease of the facial nerve that causes one side of the face to be paralysed. Some studies have suggested that it is caused by the same viral infections that cause cold sores or shingles and investigated the effect of antiviral therapy. Earlier versions of this review have found that antivirals alone are not helpful compared to a dummy pill, and are less effective than corticosteroids alone. However, studies of antiviral treatment in combination with corticosteroids have conflicting results. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 14 trials, which included 2488 participants with mild, moderate, or severe one‐sided Bell's palsy of unknown cause. Participants were aged from 14 to 84 years. The trials compared: ‐ antivirals plus corticosteroids to corticosteroids alone or in combination with placebo; ‐ antivirals alone or in combination with placebo to placebo or no treatment; ‐ antivirals alone or in combination with placebo to corticosteroid treatment alone or in combination with placebo; or ‐ antivirals plus corticosteroids to placebo or no treatment. 
For the majority of the studies, no information on funding was given. The remaining were mostly partly public funded, and one trial was funded by a pharmaceutical company. 
Eleven studies had high or uncertain risk of bias from various factors that can systematically affect trial results. We chose to base our conclusions only on data from three studies at a lower risk of bias. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
The review showed that there may be no clear difference in rates of incomplete recovery from Bell's palsy after treatment with the combination of antivirals and corticosteroids, compared to corticosteroids alone. This finding was of low certainty and was based on data from three trials involving 766 people with Bell's palsy of various degrees of severity. We excluded data from 10 trials with multiple potential sources of bias. However, we can be moderately confident that the combined therapy reduced the number of people left with long‐term effects of Bell's palsy (excessive tearing of the eyes or an abnormal facial movement) compared to corticosteroid treatment alone. 
Data from two studies (98 participants) showed that in people with severe Bell's palsy (complete or almost complete facial paralysis), combined antivirals and corticosteroids had no clear effect on recovery compared with corticosteroid treatment alone. 
Corticosteroids alone were more effective than antivirals alone on rates of incomplete recovery (667 participants, 2 trials); antivirals and corticosteroids combined were more effective than placebo or no treatment (658 participants, 2 trials); and there was no clear benefit from antivirals alone over placebo (658 participants, 2 trials). 
Although, based on data from two trials (656 participants), we found no clear difference in the occurrence of side effects between people receiving both antivirals and corticosteroids, compared to those receiving corticosteroids alone, this evidence is too uncertain for us to draw conclusions. 
Large studies in people with Bell's palsy comparing additional antiviral agents may be indicated in the future. 
