Patches of different types for carotid patch angioplasty
Question 
What are the best types of patch materials for patients who undergo carotid patch angioplasty? 
BackgroundCarotid endarterectomy is an operation done to remove some diseased artery lining that has caused a stroke. Usually patients who need this operation are at risk of a stroke because of recent stroke symptoms or severe disease of the carotid artery. Inserting a patch at the end of the carotid operation appears to reduce the risk of further stroke and artery disease. These patches are made of synthetic material, the patient’s own vein, or other natural materials such as bovine pericardium. Vein patching is often used and is resistant to infection. However, abnormal swelling of the patch or patch rupture has been a matter of concern. Synthetic patch materials including Dacron and polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE) have high strength and may involve lower risk of patch rupture. However, synthetic materials may confer greater risk of infection. Bovine pericardium may carry lower risk for both infection and other complications. However the best choice of material for carotid patch angioplasty procedures is still uncertain. This review aims to assess whether one type of patch is better than another for clinical outcomes (such as stroke and death) and complications (such as patch rupture or infection). 
Search dateWe searched for studies up to 25 May 2020.Study characteristicsThis review identified 14 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving 2278 carotid endarterectomies, which compared different patch materials: seven trials compared vein closure with PTFE closure, five compared Dacron grafts with other synthetic materials, and two compared bovine pericardium with other synthetic materials. Primary endpoints were postoperative and long‐term (during at least one year) stroke on the operated side. Secondary endpoints were any stroke, transient ischaemic attack (TIA), death, artery narrowing or blockage, and other complications including artery rupture, cranial nerve palsy, wound infection or bleeding, and reoperation or abnormal swelling (pseudoaneurysm). 
