Corticosteroid injections for treatment of sciatica
What is sciatica? 
Lumbosacral radicular pain, often referred to as sciatica, is a type of pain that arises from irritation or inflammation of a low back spinal nerve. People typically experience pain radiating down the leg, sometimes with altered sensation and weakness of leg muscles. In this plain language summary, the term 'sciatica' will be used to describe lumbosacral radicular pain. 
How injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids directly into the spinal region might work 
To relieve the sciatica symptoms, some practitioners treat their patients with an injection of a corticosteroid (anti‐inflammatory medicine) directly into the spinal region. The injections are believed to work by reducing inflammation around the spinal nerve.  What was the aim of this review? 
We aimed to investigate whether injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine are effective and safe compared to placebo injection (that is, injection of an inert (i.e. inactive) or innocuous substance (e.g. salt water)) in people with sciatica. 
Search dates 
This review includes all eligible studies up to 25 September 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included 25 clinical trials (reported in 29 publications) enrolling a total of 2470 people with sciatica comparing injection of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine to placebo injection. We identified one ongoing trial in a registry of trial protocols. Most studies included participants with sciatica detected through clinical findings and most studies included participants with mixed duration of symptoms. The included studies were carried out mainly in North America and Europe. Fifteen studies did not report any information related to funding, five studies reported not receiving any funding for conducting the study, and five studies reported receiving funding from a non‐profit source (e.g. research institute, university) or from government sources. Eight trials reported data on leg pain, 12 trials reported data on disability, and eight studies reported data on adverse events. The duration of the follow‐up assessments ranged from 12 hours to 1 year. We considered only eight trials to be at low risk of bias. 
Key messages 
We provide a summary of the key results of the review in the 'Additional tables' section.
Injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine is probably slightly better than placebo in reducing leg pain and disability at short‐term follow‐up. However, the treatment effects were small and may not be considered clinically important by patients and clinicians (i.e. less than 10 points on a 0 to 100 scale). 
Adverse events may occur after injection of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine for sciatica. Most studies provided insufficient information on how or when adverse events were assessed (immediate or short‐term follow‐up) and only reported adverse drug reactions (unexpected events that the authors attributed to the study treatment). We are very uncertain that the frequency of minor adverse events is different following injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids compared to placebo injection. Adverse events included increased pain during or after the injection, non‐specific headache, headache after accidental spinal puncture, irregular periods, accidental spinal puncture, thoracic pain, non‐local rash, sinusitis, vasovagal response (brief loss of consciousness), hypotension, nausea, and tinnitus. One study reported a major drug reaction: one patient on anticoagulant therapy had a retroperitoneal haematoma (bleeding in the abdominal space) as a complication of the injection of anti‐inflammatory steroids. 
Although the current review identified additional trials, the available evidence still provides only limited support for the use of injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine for sciatica as the treatment benefits are small, mainly evident at short‐term follow‐up, and may not be considered clinically important by patients and clinicians. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of evidence was at best moderate, suggesting that further studies may change our conclusions. Uncertainty was mostly due to problems with trial design and inconsistency. 
