Taxane chemotherapy before or after anthracycline chemotherapy in early breast cancer
Anthracyclines and taxanes are active classes of chemotherapeutic agents used before or after surgery for early breast cancer. 
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to find out if giving people with early breast cancer (where the cancer has not spread beyond the lymph nodes near the breast) taxane chemotherapy before anthracycline chemotherapy (instead of after) would change outcomes. 
While the benefits of adding taxanes to anthracyclines are well established, it is unknown whether giving taxane chemotherapy before or after anthracycline chemotherapy has an impact on how long people live, how long they remain free of breast cancer, their completion of treatment, the side effects of treatment and their quality of life. 
Key messages from the review 
The order in which taxane and anthracycline chemotherapies are given may have had little to no impact on: – how long participants lived; – how long they remained free of breast cancer; – completion of treatment and – side effects of treatment. 
None of the studies reported data on quality of life. Many of the studies did not report information on important outcomes such as how long people will live or remain free of breast cancer. We await the publication of one relevant study involving 112 participants who receive chemotherapy before breast cancer surgery for inclusion in an update of this review. 
In summary, the results found no sufficient evidence of benefit or harm due to the order in which taxane and anthracycline chemotherapies are given. In most institutions, standard practice would be to deliver anthracycline followed by taxane. Based on this review of the evidence, the currently available data do not support a change in this practice. 
What was studied in the review? 
For women with early breast cancer who have a higher risk of cancer returning, combination chemotherapy with anthracycline and taxane is often offered either before or after surgery to reduce the risk of cancer returning and prolong life. Traditionally, anthracyclines are given first followed by taxanes but there is no strong evidence for this order. We compared the possibility of giving taxanes first followed by anthracyclines compared to the standard treatment with anthracycline first. 
What are the main results of the review? 
All participants in the studies were women. We found five studies involving 1415 participants in which chemotherapy was given prior to surgery. The taxane medicine used in three of these studies was paclitaxel, while the other two studies used docetaxel. Two studies used a single agent anthracycline (epirubicin), while three studies used a combination of epirubicin, cyclophosphamide and fluorouracil. There were also four studies involving 280 participants that compared the order of giving taxanes and anthracyclines to participants who were receiving chemotherapy after breast cancer surgery. The taxane used in all four studies was docetaxel, while the anthracyclines used were a combination of epirubicin or adriamycin plus either cyclophosphamide or fluorouracil (or both). 
