Phosphodiesterase‐4 inhibitors for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
Background 
COPD is a progressive lung condition caused by damage from harmful chemicals breathed in and is predominantly seen in people who smoke tobacco. These chemicals cause inflammation and lung damage and increase mucus production in the lungs. This leads to periods of breathlessness and coughing called exacerbations (or flare‐ups). Exacerbations make it harder for people to do their day‐to‐day tasks. Exacerbations become more frequent and severe over time. People vary in terms of how they are affected by COPD. This is related in part to the severity of the disease but also to differences in response to medicines, as well as fitness and co‐existent conditions. For most people, the only way to prevent further lung damage is to stop smoking. 
Medicines prescribed to manage COPD generally aim to improve symptoms, reduce exacerbations, or both. In early stages, taking bronchodilators makes breathing easier by relaxing muscles in the lungs and widening airways, allowing more air to move freely into and out of the lungs. 
Some long‐acting agents may reduce exacerbations. For example, steroid inhalers reduce inflammation in the lungs and thus modestly reduce the number of exacerbations. 
Phosphodiesterase‐4 (PDE₄) inhibitors are a relatively new class of medicines marketed to improve COPD. They have both bronchodilator and anti‐inflammatory effects. Two currently available medicines ‐ roflumilast and cilomilast ‐ are taken as a tablet. We collated and analysed results of existing trials to define the benefits and risks of PDE₄ inhibitors in COPD. 
Key results 
Data analysis included 42 studies in 24,587 adults with moderate to very severe disease who discontinued other regular COPD medications. Some trials allowed people to carry on using their usual COPD medicines. Most trials were funded by manufacturers of PDE₄ inhibitors. 
PDE₄ inhibitors provided a small benefit in improving lung function measurements (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV₁), forced vital capacity (FVC), and peak expiratory flow (PEF)). PDE₄ inhibitors also reduced the likelihood of COPD‐related exacerbations. We found that 28 out of 100 people taking PDE₄ inhibitors every day for a year would experience at least one exacerbation, which was five fewer than for people who did not receive these medicines. 
PDE₄ inhibitors provided a small benefit in reducing breathlessness and improving quality of life. Around 5% to 10% of people who received roflumilast or cilomilast reported side effects such as diarrhoea, nausea, and vomiting. We expected that 11 out of 100 people taking PDE₄ inhibitors every day for 39 weeks would experience an episode of diarrhoea, which was seven more than for those not receiving PDE₄ inhibitors. We found that 7 people out of 100 were likely to experience a psychiatric event with roflumilast 500 µg. A two‐ to three‐fold increase in risk of sleep or mood disturbance was found with roflumilast 500 μg, although overall the total number of reported incidents was low. There was no effect on death rates. Effects were the same regardless of the severity of COPD, or whether other medicines for COPD were being taken. 
Quality of the evidence 
We were moderately certain about data for lung function and quality of life. We were highly certain of evidence for side effects such as diarrhoea and of data for exacerbations. 
Results seen in trials published in journals by pharmaceutical companies show greater benefit of these medicines than those that were unpublished. Psychiatric adverse effects data remain unpublished. 
Conclusions 
We support the use of PDE₄ inhibitors for COPD, but with caution. PDE₄ inhibitors provided a small benefit in improving lung function and reducing the likelihood of COPD exacerbations, but they had little impact on quality of life and COPD symptoms. Side effects including diarrhoea and weight loss were common. 
