Interventions for trachomatous trichiasis
Review question  This review addressed the question: "Which interventions improve the results of the treatment for trichiasis (in‐turned eyelashes) caused by trachoma?" 
Background  Trachoma is the commonest infectious cause of blindness in the world. It is caused by a bacterium called Chlamydia trachomatis. This infection causes inflammation and scarring of the surface of the eye, which results in the eyelid turning in (entropion) so that the eyelashes touch the eyeball. This is known as trachomatous trichiasis. The lashes can scratch the corneal surface, leading directly or indirectly (from secondary infections) to corneal opacity. Surgery to correct the eyelid deformity is the main treatment for the late stages of the disease. Most cases of trachomatous trichiasis occur in sub‐Saharan Africa. They are generally treated by nurses with limited surgical training. Unfortunately the results of the surgery can be quite variable, with frequent post‐operative trichiasis reported. Therefore, we wanted to find out what types of surgery and other interventions give the best results in treating this condition. 
Study characteristics  We identified 13 randomised controlled trials. They were all conducted in trachoma‐endemic countries (mostly in sub‐Saharan Africa) with surgical interventions carried out by non‐physician surgeons. Five studies compared different surgical treatments. Three studies investigated whether azithromycin antibiotic treatment after surgery improves the results. One study compared different types of sutures. One study compared surgery to the pulling out of eyelashes (epilation). One study compared the outcomes of treatments provided in the community with hospital care. One study compared the results of surgery performed by eye doctors with those of non‐specialist technicians. The evidence is current to May 2015. Most studies were funded by government research councils or charitable foundations. 
Key results  These trials suggested that the most effective surgery requires full‐thickness incision of the tarsal plate and rotation of the edge of the eyelid. The use of a surgical lid clamp improves eyelid contour outcomes and reduces granuloma formation. Silk and absorbable sutures give comparable results. The addition of azithromycin treatment at the time of surgery may reduce post‐operative trichiasis under certain conditions. Epilation is less effective than surgery at treating trichiasis, but has comparable results for vision and corneal change two years after intervention. Community‐based surgery was more convenient for patients by reducing the time and expense of travelling to a conventional hospital, and it did not increase the risk of complications or recurrence. Surgery performed by ophthalmologists and by integrated eye care workers were both similarly effective. Destroying the lash roots by freezing or electrical ablation appeared to have low success rates and the equipment required is costly and can be difficult to maintain. 
Quality of the evidence  The quality of the evidence from these randomised controlled trials was variable. Most were of a high quality. However, several were relatively small in size and several had potential bias problems due to the method of randomisation and masking. 
