Replacing heparin flushing with saline flushing to prevent complications in long‐term central venous catheters in children 
Background 
A central venous catheter (CVC) is a long, thin, flexible tube which is inserted into a large central vein. This enables access to the blood stream for people with serious medical conditions to receive medications and fluids, as well as the collection of blood specimens. Long‐term CVCs are used to access the blood system in children with complex medical conditions like cancer. To stop the catheter from becoming blocked it is usual to use heparin, a drug that prevents clots forming, to flush the catheter. However, some studies have shown that heparin is not necessary, and that normal saline (a sterile salt water solution) can be safely used instead. Heparin may be associated with complications, such as bleeding and infection, along with higher costs for healthcare providers. While the complications such as infections and occlusions are uncommon, practices vary around the world and there are many inconsistencies regarding the best flush solution to use to prevent complications in long‐term catheters. 
Study characteristics and key results 
This review included randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people were randomly assigned into one of two or more treatment groups) that compared the use of saline and heparin to prevent blockage, and other complications related to long‐term catheters. The evidence is current to 9 April 2019. Two review authors independently reviewed the studies. We included four studies with a total of 255 participants in the review. The four trials were all undertaken in large teaching (tertiary) hospitals, and directly compared the use of saline and heparin. The studies were, however, very different in the way they compared saline and heparin, with different concentrations of heparin and different frequencies of flushes reported. We were able to combine the results of two studies: the analysis showed imprecise results for the blocking of catheters and blood stream infections for normal saline versus heparin. One study reported the duration of catheter placement to be similar between the two study arms. 
