Interventions delivered by mobile phone to support client use of family planning/contraception
Contraception ‐ methods or devices used to prevent pregnancy – has significant benefits for women's and children's health. Despite these benefits, an estimated 225 million women in developing countries were not using a modern contraceptive method in 2014 despite wanting to avoid pregnancy. Expansion of mobile phone use in recent years has led to increased interest in healthcare delivery via mobile phone and the potential to deliver support wherever the person is located, whenever it is needed, and to reach populations with restricted access to services. Mobile phone‐based interventions have been demonstrated to be effective in other health areas, but not yet in the field of contraception. 
In 2014, we undertook computer searches for randomised trials evaluating mobile phone‐based interventions to increase contraception use. We found five trials. Three trials used text messaging to support women in continuing to use a specific method of contraception. Two trials aimed to improve both uptake and continued use of contraception ‐ one with voice and one with text messaging. Our review provides limited evidence that interventions delivered by mobile phone improve contraception use. One trial in the USA reported that women were more likely to continue to take the contraceptive pill from an intervention comprising a range of educational text messages. One trial in Cambodia reported increased use of contraception at four months post abortion from an intervention comprising voice messages and phone counsellor support. Another trial in the USA reported improved attendance for the first but not subsequent contraceptive injection appointments from an intervention comprising reminders and healthy self management text messages. Simple text message contraceptive pill reminders did not reduce missed pills in a small trial in the USA. No difference in contraception use was reported amongst users of isotretinoin (a drug used for acne) from an intervention that provided health information via text messages and mail. 
