Endovascular coiling versus neurosurgical clipping for people with aneurysmal subarachnoid haemorrhage 
Review question We reviewed the outcome after endovascular coiling compared with neurosurgical clipping after a subarachnoid haemorrhage. 
Background Bleeding under the surface membrane of the brain is called a subarachnoid haemorrhage. The bleeding usually comes from the rupture of a weak spot in an artery carrying blood to the brain. This weak spot is like a small balloon, which is called an aneurysm. The outcome after subarachnoid haemorrhage from an aneurysm is generally poor: a third of all people die within three months, and one of every five people remains dependent on someone else for help with every day activities such as walking, dressing, bathing, and taking care of one's own affairs. One of the risks in people with subarachnoid haemorrhage is rebleeding. There are two ways to try and prevent this: neurosurgical clipping of the neck of the aneurysm in an operation or blocking the aneurysm from inside by endovascular coiling. 
Study characteristics In March 2018, we searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs, clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing endovascular coiling with neurosurgical clipping for subarachnoid haemorrhage. We found one new RCT and additional data for previously identified RCTs, allowing us to include four RCTs involving 2458 participants. 
Key results The data from RCTs showed that the number of people who survived and were independent in their daily living was higher after endovascular coiling than after neurosurgical clipping, if both treatment options were possible. Risk of rebleeding was higher in people treated with endovascular coiling. The evidence came mainly from one large trial. 
Quality of the evidence We judged that there is sufficient evidence to guide treatment for people in a relatively good condition whose aneurysm is considered suitable for both neurosurgical clipping and endovascular treatment. There is no reliable trial evidence that can be used directly to guide treatment in people with a poor clinical condition. 
