Sodium‐glucose cotransporter (SGLT) 2 inhibitors for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in people at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
Review question 
What are the effects of the group of glucose‐lowering drugs called 'sodium‐glucose cotransporter (SGLT) 2 inhibitors' for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in people at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
The SGLT 2 inhibitors (such as canagliflozin, dapagliflozin and empagliflozin) are glucose‐lowering drugs that reduce blood glucose levels by increasing the secretion of glucose from the kidneys to the urine. SGLT 2 inhibitors were recently approved for the treatment of diabetes in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is currently not known whether SGLT 2 inhibitors should be prescribed for people with raised blood glucose levels who do not meet the criteria for having type 2 diabetes. We wanted to find out whether these drugs would prevent or only delay the development of type 2 diabetes. Furthermore, we wanted to analyse the effects of SGLT 2 inhibitors on patient‐important outcomes such as complications of diabetes (for example kidney and eye disease, heart attacks, strokes), death from any cause, health‐related quality of life and side effects of the medications. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature and registers of ongoing trials for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) of SGLT 2 inhibitors for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications. We wanted to synthesise the findings of several studies to answer our review question. Unfortunately, we did not find such a study. 
This evidence is up to date as of January 2016.
Key results 
We could not include any study in our systematic review. However, we identified two ongoing studies, both evaluating the effects of dapagliflozin in people at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes and a follow‐up of 24 to 26 weeks. Both rather short‐term studies will mainly report on laboratory outcome measures with some data on side effects and health‐related quality of life. 
