Endovascular treatment for ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm
Background 
The abdominal aorta is the main artery supplying blood to the lower part of the body. An abnormal ballooning and weakening of the wall of the aorta (aortic aneurysm) can occur with age, particularly in older men. An aneurysm may progressively enlarge without obvious symptoms, yet it is potentially lethal as it can burst (rupture), causing massive internal bleeding. Death is inevitable unless the bleeding can be stopped and blood flow to the lower body promptly restored. Until recently this required an open operation (laparotomy) to clamp the abdominal aorta and replace the segment of the aorta with a synthetic artery tube‐graft. Many patients do not survive this major operation due to the effects of massive bleeding or failure of vital organs, such as the heart, lungs, and kidneys, despite improvements in the surgical technique and care of the critically ill patient. 
Endovascular treatment, a minimally invasive technique, allows the surgeon to pass a stent graft through the blood vessels from the groin to the site of rupture, where it is positioned and attached to the healthy artery above and below the aneurysm to stop bleeding and form a new channel for blood flow. This technique is successful in suitable patients for the planned treatment of non‐ruptured aneurysms and can reduce early postoperative complications and deaths. 
Study characteristics and key results 
The present review looked at the available evidence for endovascular repair effectiveness compared with open surgery for ruptured aneurysms. We included four studies with a total of 868 participants. Risk of bias was generally low, but one study was at high risk of selection bias due to their use of the block method of randomisation; one study did not adequately report randomisation methods; and two studies may not have included a sufficient number of participants to adequately answer the questions posed by the studies. We found that from the data currently available there appears to be no difference in death within 30 days of the procedure between endovascular repair and open repair. Endoleaks were reported in 44 participants from three studies. The data on complications (myocardial infarction, stroke, combined cardiac complications, renal complications, spinal cord ischaemia, reoperation, amputation, and respiratory failure) are not robust enough at this point to make any strong conclusions on superiority of either repair technique, but emergency endovascular aneurysm repair (eEVAR) may be associated with a lower risk of bowel ischaemia. No robust conclusion can be made on outcomes at six months or one year. More studies are needed to better understand whether or not one of the aneurysm repair techniques, endovascular or open surgical, is superior based on patient outcomes. 
