Inhaled steroids with and without regular salmeterol for asthma: serious adverse events
Review question 
Is it safe to add regular salmeterol to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for adults or children with asthma? 
Background 
Another Cochrane Review found that using regular salmeterol without regular ICS for adults with asthma led to an increase in serious adverse events (death or admission to hospital). We wanted to find out if more adverse (harmful) effects occur when people take regular salmeterol in addition to ICS. We looked only at adverse effects ‐ deaths, being admitted to hospital and life‐threatening effects. We did not look at the benefits of taking salmeterol for other outcomes. We updated this review in 2018 because of new evidence from large randomised trials of salmeterol in combination with ICS, in 11,679 adults and 6208 children with asthma. 
Study characteristics 
In total, we have included 41 studies in 27,951 adults and eight studies in 8453 children. Almost all studies used a combination inhaler to deliver salmeterol with ICS and compared this with the same dose of ICS for an average of six months. 
Key results 
We did not find a difference in the risk of death or serious adverse events in either adults or children. 
Eleven of a total of 14,233 adults taking regular salmeterol and ICS died, as did 13 of 13,718 adults taking regular ICS at the same dose. For every 1000 adults treated for 25 weeks, researchers reported one death on ICS alone and a corresponding risk on salmeterol and ICS of one death (95% confidence Interval (CI) 0 to 2 deaths). No deaths in any studies were attributed to asthma, and researchers reported no deaths at all among children. 
A non‐fatal serious adverse event of any cause occurred in 332 adults on regular salmeterol with ICS compared to 282 adults on regular ICS alone. For every 1000 adults treated for 25 weeks, 21 serious adverse events occurred on ICS alone, and the corresponding risk on salmeterol and ICS was 23 adults (95% CI 20 to 27). 
A total of 65 of 4229 children on regular salmeterol with ICS suffered a serious adverse event of any cause compared to 62 of 4224 children on regular ICS alone. For every 1000 children treated for 23 weeks, 15 serious adverse events occurred on ICS alone, and the corresponding risk on salmeterol and ICS was also 15 children (95% CI 11 to 22). 
Quality of the evidence 
Reviewers assessed the overall risk of bias for all‐cause events as low. The two new large studies performed independent assessment to identify the cause of asthma‐related serious adverse events. This makes current data on asthma events more reliable than previously reported. 
Conclusions 
Trials reported no asthma deaths among 27,951 adults or 8453 children randomised to regular salmeterol and ICS or ICS alone over an average of six months. The risk of dying from asthma while receiving either treatment was therefore very low, but we remain uncertain about whether the risk of dying from asthma is altered by adding salmeterol to ICS. 
We can now say that the worst‐case estimate (safety margin) from this review is that at least 152 adults and 139 children must be treated with combination salmeterol and ICS for six months for one additional person to be admitted to the hospital (compared to ICS alone). These possible risks must be weighed against the benefits experienced by people who take combination treatment. 
People monitored in the new trials took over 90% of their prescribed treatment. This is much more than the average amount of medication that people take outside a trial. Therefore the effects shown in trials may be different from the effects experienced by people at home who are not taking their inhalers as prescribed. 
Because very few people die of asthma, trials would have to be very large to detect differences in the death rate. Therefore it is probably not feasible to find out if adding salmeterol to ICS causes more deaths among participants in randomised controlled trials ‐ as these trials would be very large, difficult to run, and expensive. It might be better to use case‐control studies or to review asthma deaths (e.g. from medical records). 
