Antibiotics for otitis media with effusion ('glue ear') in children
Review question 
This review compared the effects of oral antibiotics against placebo, no treatment or other therapies in children with otitis media with effusion (OME) or 'glue ear'. 
Background 
Glue ear is one of the most common conditions of early childhood. Glue ear means that there is fluid in the middle ear space behind the eardrum. This may cause hearing difficulties that may in turn affect children's behaviour, language and progress at school. In approximately one in three children with glue ear, bacteria are identified in the middle ear fluid. Therefore, people have suggested that antibiotics may be beneficial in children with glue ear. 
Study characteristics 
This review included evidence available up to 14 April 2016. In total 25 studies (3663 children) were eligible for inclusion. Two studies did not report on any of the outcomes of interest, leaving 23 studies (3258 children). Overall, we assessed most studies as being at low to moderate risk of bias. In the 23 studies many different antibiotics were used and the children were of different ages and had suffered from glue ear for various lengths of time. They looked at the benefits at various time points after the treatment was given. 
Key results 
The most important outcomes that we measured were the difference in the proportion of children who no longer had glue ear two to three months after the treatment was started and adverse effects of antibiotics (diarrhoea, vomiting or skin rash). 
We found moderate quality evidence (six trials including 484 children) that children treated with oral antibiotics are more likely to have glue ear resolved two to three months after the treatment was started than those allocated to control treatment. The number of children needed to treat for one beneficial outcome (NNTB) was five. However, there is evidence (albeit of low quality; five trials, 742 children) indicating that children treated with oral antibiotics are more likely to experience diarrhoea, vomiting or skin rash than those allocated to control treatment. The number of children needed to treat for one harmful outcome (NNTH) was 20. 
