The continuation or discontinuation of oral anticoagulants for people with arrhythmia and undergoing catheter ablation 
Review question 
Should doctors continue or stop blood thinner medicine before catheter ablation procedures in people with arrhythmia? 
Background 
Irregular heartbeats (also known as arrhythmia) come in different types; the most common type of which is uncoordinated irregular beats (also known as atrial fibrillation). People with irregular heartbeats are at risk of stroke and hence they require long‐term use of blood thinner medicines to prevent blood clots. Many of these patients may need to undergo a procedure called 'ablation' where doctors use surgery or a catheter (a thin flexible tube) to restore the normal rhythm of the heart. Before this procedure, the doctor may decide to continue the blood thinner or stop it temporarily. Such a decision should consider two things. First, the risk of a blood clot developing at the time of the ablation if the blood thinner is stopped. Second, the risk of bleeding during the procedure if the blood thinner is continued. There is no clear evidence that one decision is better than the other in terms of safety. Due to this uncertainty, we undertook this review to investigate the benefit and harms of continuing versus stopping the blood thinner at the time of the ablation procedure. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases and identified 12 clinical trials involving 4714 participants aged 18 years and older with atrial fibrillation. The participants were randomly (like a flip of a coin) put into one of two or more groups. The groups were: continuing the blood thinner at the time of the procedure or stopping the blood thinner either for several days or by one or two doses before the procedure with or without giving additional heparin.  
The trials reported on the risks of stroke, major bleeding, and minor bleeding after a follow‐up period of about 30 days after the procedure. The included trials examined different ablation procedures as well as different blood thinners, including Coumadin and the new oral blood thinners such as apixaban, rivaroxaban, edoxaban, and dabigatran. Ten trials were conducted in East Asian populations (Japan, China, and South Korea). Drug companies funded two trials. The evidence is current to 5 January 2021. 
Key results 
Due to the uncertainty of the evidence, after combining the results from the 12 clinical trials in this review, we are unsure about advising one strategy over another with the current evidence. The decision to continue, completely stop or withhold one or two doses of the blood thinner before the procedure should be individualised based on the patient's risks of stroke and bleeding until more well‐designed clinical trials are available to inform a conclusive decision. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence should be interpreted with caution. The review results are limited by variations in most trial comparisons, low numbers of events, trials being conducted in only one medical setting, and mostly described the intervention in East Asian populations. Further high‐quality trials are needed to find the ideal strategy for handling blood thinners at the time of the ablation procedure without increasing harm. 
