Pelvic floor muscle training added to another active treatment versus the same active treatment alone for urinary incontinence in women 
Background  
Involuntary leakage of urine (urinary incontinence) affects women of all ages, particularly older women who live in residential care, such as nursing homes. Some women leak urine during exercise or when they cough or sneeze (stress urinary incontinence). This may occur as a result of weakness of the pelvic floor muscles, which may be a result of factors such as damage during childbirth. Other women leak urine before going to the toilet when there is a sudden and compelling need to pass urine (urgency urinary incontinence). This may be caused by involuntary contraction of the bladder muscle. Mixed urinary incontinence is the combination of both stress and urgency urinary incontinence. Pelvic floor muscle training is a supervised treatment that involves muscle‐clenching exercises to strengthen the pelvic floor muscles. It is a common treatment used by women to stop urine leakage. Other treatments are also available, which can be used either alone, or in combination with pelvic floor muscle training. 
The main findings of the review  
In this review, we included 13 trials that compared a combination of pelvic floor muscle training and another active treatment in 585 women with the same active treatment alone in 579 women to treat all types of urine leakage. There was not enough evidence to say whether or not the addition of pelvic floor muscle training to another active treatment would result in more reports of a cure or improvement in urine leakage and better quality of life, when compared to the same active treatment alone. 
Adverse effects  
There was also insufficient evidence to evaluate the adverse events associated with the addition of PFMT to other active treatment as none of the included trials reported data on adverse events associated with the PFMT regimen. 
Limitations of the review  
Most of the comparisons were investigated by single trials, which were small. None of the trials included in this systematic review were large enough to answer the questions they were designed to answer. The quality of the evidence was rated as either low or very low for the outcomes of interest. The main limitations of the evidence were poor reporting of study methods, and lack of precision in the findings for the outcome measures. 
