Lamotrigine as add‐on therapy for drug‐resistant generalised tonic‐clonic seizures
This is an update of a review first published in 2010.
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological (brain) condition that is characterised by repeated seizures. Most people can control their seizures with a single antiepileptic medicine, however, about 30% continue to have seizures. These people are said to have drug‐resistant epilepsy. Lamotrigine is an antiepileptic medicine, which can be used as add‐on treatment with other antiepileptic medication to try to manage drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Aim of review 
This review studied whether lamotrigine was effective and tolerable when used as add‐on treatment, alongside other antiepileptic medicines, for people with drug‐resistant generalised epilepsy (affecting the entire brain from onset) with tonic clonic‐seizures (seizures where people lose consciousness and jerk quickly and rhythmically). 
Results 
We found three trials, involving 300 people, that investigated lamotrigine for people with drug‐resistant generalised tonic‐clonic seizures. People who received add‐on lamotrigine were almost twice as likely to have a 50% or greater reduction in the number of generalised tonic‐clonic seizures than people who received add‐on placebo (an inactive, dummy drug). Lamotrigine did not significantly affect: the number of people who were completely free of seizures, the number of people who withdrew from treatment, or the number of people who experienced common adverse effects. 
However, we are very uncertain whether these findings are accurate. This is because there were not many people involved in the studies, and we are unclear about the methods some of the studies used. For this reason, we cannot comment on the use of lamotrigine. 
More trials, which include more people, and are carried out over longer time periods are needed to properly guide the use of lamotrigine for people with drug‐resistant generalised tonic‐clonic seizures. 
The evidence is current to March 2019.
