Laparoscopic surgery compared to open surgery for suspected appendicitis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of the open operation technique and the minimally invasive procedure in persons with suspected appendicitis. 
Background 
In the right lower part of the abdomen there is a small blind ending intestinal tube, called the appendix. Inflammation of the appendix is called appendicitis which is most frequent in children and young adults. Most cases require emergency surgery in order to avoid rupture of the appendix into the abdomen. During the operation, called appendectomy, the inflamed appendix is surgically removed. The traditional surgical approach involves a small incision (about 5 cm or 2 inches) in the right lower abdominal wall. Alternatively, it is possible to remove the inflamed appendix using another surgical technique, known as laparoscopic appendectomy. This operation requires three very small incisions (each about 1 cm or 1/2 inch). Then the surgeon introduces a camera and instruments into the abdomen and removes the appendix. 
Study characteristics 
We included 85 studies involving 9765 participants, of which 75 trials compared laparoscopic appendectomy versus open appendectomy in adults. The remaining 10 studies included only children. The evidence is current to February 2018. 
Key results 
The main advantages of laparoscopic compared to open appendectomy were reduced postsurgical pain, reduced risk of wound infection, shorter hospital stay, and more rapid return to normal activities in adults. In contrast, laparoscopic appendectomy showed advantages over open appendectomy in wound infections and shorter hospital stay in children. Two studies reported that adults who received laparoscopic appendectomy had better quality of life two weeks, six weeks, and six months after surgery. Data from children were not available. As for disadvantages of laparoscopic appendectomy, a higher rate of intra‐abdominal abscesses were identified in adults but not in children. Except for a trend towards decreased intra‐abdominal abscesses after LA, the results for children were similar to those seen in adults. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence varied from moderate to low because of poorly conducted studies. 
