Gene therapy for peripheral arterial disease
Background 
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) occurs when the blood flow to the limbs is restricted because of narrowed arteries. This circulatory problem is increasing in the population because of increased levels of diabetes and because the population is ageing. Due to restricted blood flow, PAD can cause pain in the legs while walking, usually after some distance (known as 'intermittent claudication'). As the disease becomes more severe, a person can experience serious pain while at rest, as well as ulcers in the feet and legs (known as 'critical limb ischaemia'). PAD can be treated with medication or through interventions such as surgical or endovascular procedures (less invasive than surgery, endovascular intervention is carried out through a small incision to access the vessels). However, many people will not respond to medication, and surgical or endovascular procedures may not be appropriate because of medical risks. In these cases, for extreme PAD, the only option for treating the condition is amputation. Therapies are needed that can help repair the vessels in the limbs of people with PAD to restore adequate blood flow. 
Gene therapy is a novel approach whereby genetic material, encoded for proteins that may help to improve blood flow by restoring blood vessels, is injected into a person's legs. Trials have shown that this treatment is safe, but whether it is effective in reducing the risk of amputation or improving quality of life remains unknown. 
Review question 
Is there a difference in outcomes of effectiveness (such as amputation, death, ulcer healing, and quality of life) between patients with symptomatic PAD who are given gene therapy and those who are not given gene therapy? 
Study characteristics 
We included 17 studies that had a total of 1988 participants (evidence current until November 2017). These studies used various types of gene therapy as well as different dosages, some providing single treatments and some repeated treatments. Most of the studies included people with critical limb ischaemia; three studies included people with intermittent claudication. 
