The effect of different methods of remuneration on the behaviour of primary care dentists
Financial incentives within remuneration systems (methods of payment) can influence the behaviour of clinicians working in primary care environments. Systematic reviews in medicine have found that changing the way that doctors are paid can produce substantial changes in the types of activities that are undertaken. For example, paying a fee for specific services can increase the quantity of services delivered, although this may not produce an improvement in patient outcomes. 
The main methods for remunerating primary care dentists include:
1. fee‐for‐service payment (a payment made to a dentist for every item of service or unit of care that they provide); 
2. fixed salary payment (a lump sum payment made to a dentist for a set number of working hours or sessions per week); 
3. capitation payment (a payment based on the number and types of patients whose care the dentist takes responsibility for); and 
4. blended payment (combination of above).
Our review identified two studies examining the effects of different methods of remuneration on the behaviour of 821 dentists from 503 dental practices, involving 4771 patients. Both were conducted in the United Kingdom. One study investigated the impact of a fee‐for‐service payment and an educational intervention on the placement of fissure sealants in permanent molar teeth. The second study compared the impact of capitation payments and fee‐for‐service payments on primary care dentists’ clinical activity and the levels of dental decay that were experienced across the two payment systems. 
The first study found an increase in clinical activity related to fee‐for‐service payments. In the second study, dentists working under capitation arrangements restored carious teeth at a later stage in the disease process than fee‐for‐service controls. In the capitation arm, the dentists tended to see their patients less frequently and tended to carry out fewer fillings and extractions, but tended to give more preventive advice. 
