After using shock waves to break up kidney stones, do medicines called alpha‑blockers help to get rid of the stone fragments? 
What are kidney stones? 
Waste products in the blood can sometimes form crystals that collect inside the kidneys. These can build up over time to form a hard stone‐like lump, called a kidney stone. 
Kidney stones can develop in both kidneys especially in people with certain medical conditions or who are taking certain medicines, or if people do not drink enough water or fluids. Stones can cause severe pain, fever and a kidney infection if they block the ureter. 
Treatments for kidney stones 
Most stones are small enough to pass out in the urine: drinking plenty of water and other fluids will help. Larger kidney stones may be too big to pass out naturally and are usually removed by surgery. 
Shock wave lithotripsy is a non‐surgical way to treat stones in the kidney or ureter. High energy sound waves are applied to the outside of the body to break kidney stones into smaller pieces. After shock wave treatment, medicines called alpha‐blockers are sometimes given to help the stone fragments pass out naturally. 
Alpha‐blockers work by relaxing muscles and helping to keep blood vessels open. They are usually used to treat high blood pressure and problems with storing and passing urine in men who have an enlarged prostate gland. Alpha‐blockers may relax the muscle in the ureters, which might help to get rid of kidney stones and fragments.              
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out how well alpha‐blockers work to help kidney stone fragments pass out in the urine. We also wanted to find out about potential unwanted effects that might be associated with alpha‐blockers. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at giving alpha‐blockers to adults, after shock wave treatment, to clear kidney stone fragments. 
We looked for randomized controlled studies, in which the treatments that people received were decided at random, because these studies usually give the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to 27 February 2020. 
What we found 
We found 40 studies including 4793 people who had shock wave treatment to break up their kidney stones. Most of the studies were done in Asia; some were in Europe, Africa and South America. Most studies did not report their sources of funding. 
The studies compared giving an alpha‐blocker with giving a placebo (dummy) treatment or usual care (could include antibiotics, painkillers and fluids given by mouth or through a drip). 
Tamsulosin was the most commonly studied alpha‐blocker; the others were silodosin, doxazosin, terazosin and alfuzosin. 
What are the results of our review? 
Compared with usual care or a placebo treatment, alpha‐blockers may:
clear kidney stones in more people: in 111 more people for every 1000 people treated (36 studies); 
clear stones faster: by nearly four days (14 studies);
reduce the need for extra treatments to clear stones: in 32 fewer people for every 1000 people treated (12 studies); and 
