Sexual counselling interventions for sexual problems in people with heart disease
Review question 
Are sexual counselling interventions helpful in reducing sexual problems for people with heart disease and their partners? 
Background 
People with heart disease are more likely than people without heart disease to report sexual problems. Sexual counselling for people with heart disease is when a health professional supports a person to safely return to sexual activity after their heart event, by giving them information and helping them to deal with their concerns and anxieties. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the international literature up to March 2015 for studies that compared any intervention designed to address and counsel people with heart disease in relation to sexual problems with usual care. 
Key results 
Three randomised controlled trials (clinical trials where people are allocated at random to one of two or more treatments) that included 381 participants in total met our inclusion criteria. The interventions tested in these studies were quite different from each other. All studies included people who had been admitted to hospital with a heart attack. 
These studies do not provide strong evidence that sexual counselling can improve sexual outcomes for people with heart disease or their partners. One study, which reported the effects of an intensive intervention, involved five hours of sexual counselling provided by a psychotherapist. It reported improved sexual functioning and satisfaction, and reduced length of time taken for people to return to sexual activity following a cardiac event, in people that received the intervention compared to usual care. The other two studies reported no differences between people that received the intervention and usual care on these outcomes (both studies measured rate of return to sexual activity following a cardiac event; one of these two studies measured sexual functioning and satisfaction). There was no evidence that sexual counselling has an effect on quality of life (measured in one study) or marital satisfaction (measured in one study). One study found that patients who received a 15‐minute sexual counselling educational video plus written material had higher levels of anxiety than usual care, as well as better knowledge about sex after a heart attack, one month after their cardiac event, but not at any other timepoints. 
