Antifibrinolytic drugs to treat heavy bleeding after childbirth
What is the issue? 
Antifibrinolytic drugs such as tranexamic acid (TXA) reduce breakdown of clots which form to stop bleeding and have been shown to reduce bleeding in surgery and to safely reduce mortality in patients with bleeding following injury without increasing the risk of adverse events. This review assesses the safety and effects of antifibrinolytic drugs in women with primary postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) (heavy bleeding within the first 24 hours after giving birth). 
An earlier Cochrane review on treatments for primary PPH covered all the various available treatments; that review has now been split by types of treatment. This new review concentrates only on the use of antifibrinolytic drugs for treating primary PPH. 
Why is this important? 
Postpartum haemorrhage is one of the main causes of death of women after childbirth and can also cause anaemia and other serious complications. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 28 May 2017 and found three trials which met the inclusion criteria for the review. Participants in the trials were women after birth following a pregnancy of at least 24 weeks' gestation with a diagnosis of PPH, regardless of whether they had a vaginal or caesarean section. We identified three trials (involving 20,412 women). However, one of the trials (based in Iran) did not report important outcomes, therefore, our findings are based on two trials (involving 20,212 women) conducted in hospital settings in high‐, middle‐ and low‐income countries. One was a large trial that included more than 20,000 women, and both studies looked at the effectiveness and safety of intravenous (IV) TXA compared with placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment. In both trials TXA was given in addition to usual care to treat bleeding. The trial contributing most of the information to the review was at low risk of bias. 
Our results show that TXA reduces the risk of maternal death due to bleeding (quality of evidence: moderate). There were fewer deaths from all causes but the findings were uncertain (quality of evidence: moderate). In one trial with a small sample size additional blood loss of 500 mL or more was also reduced (151 women; quality of evidence: low). TXA had little or no effect on the risk of serious maternal illness (quality of evidence: high), or complications such as stroke or deep venous thrombosis (quality of evidence: moderate). Rates of hysterectomy to control bleeding (quality of evidence: high) and blood transfusion (quality of evidence: moderate) were similar for women receiving TXA versus placebo. There was an increase in one surgical intervention (brace sutures) in the TXA group and a reduction in another (laparotomy to control bleeding) but there were no clear differences between groups for other surgical and invasive procedures. 
