Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestines. Crohn's disease frequently occurs in the lower part of the small intestine (the ileum), however it can affect any part of the digestive tract, from the mouth to the anus. The most common symptoms of Crohn's disease are abdominal pain, often in the lower right region of the abdomen, and diarrhea. TNF is a molecule secreted by white blood cells that increases inflammation. High levels of TNF‐alpha have been associated with the development of intestinal inflammation in Crohn's disease. TNF‐alpha blocking agents (infliximab, adalimumab, certolizumab pegol and CDP571) bind with TNF‐alpha molecules thereby neutralizing the biological activity of TNF‐alpha resulting in the healing of intestinal inflammation. All four molecules are synthetic antibodies that bind TNF. Infliximab (Remicade®) is an antibody of mouse origin that has been humanized, as is CDP571. Adalimumab (Humira®) is an antibody of human origin. Certolizumab is a humanized antibody fragment that is complexed with polyethylene glycol to extend the length of time the drug is in the body. Nine studies were reviewed. The studies compared TNF‐alpha blocking agents with placebo (inactive intravenous infusions or injections) and found that infliximab, adalimumab, and certolizumab pegol were effective in maintaining remission in patients with Crohn's disease who respond to induction therapy with these agents. There is no evidence that CDP571 is an effective maintenance therapy. The TNF‐alpha blocking agents appear to be safe for patients with Crohn's disease with equal numbers of patients receiving TNF‐alpha blocking agents or placebo reporting side effects such as headache, abdominal pain, nausea, and pain at injection site. There were some serious side effects reported with the use of these agents including infections such as tuberculosis. However, patients can be screened for inactive tuberculosis prior to treatment with TNF‐alpha. A link between long term treatment with TNF‐alpha blocking agents and cancer is possible but not proven. Data obtained from observational studies including the Crohn's Therapy, Resource, Evaluation and Assessment Tool (TREAT) registry show no increased risk of cancer with the use of TNF‐alpha blocking agents in patients with inflammatory bowel disease. The current evidence suggests that the TNF‐alpha blocking agents infliximab, adalimumab, and certolizumab pegol are effective maintenance therapy in Crohn's disease. However, the use of these medications needs to be weighed against the potential risk of serious side effects, particularly infection. 