Anti‐interleukin‐13 or anti‐interleukin‐4 agents versus placebo, anti‐interleukin‐5 or anti‐immunoglobulin‐E agents, for children and adults with asthma 
Review question 
We assessed the efficacy and safety of anti‐interleukin‐13 or anti‐interleukin‐4 agents, compared with placebo, anti‐immunoglobulin E agents, or anti‐interleukin‐5 agents, for the treatment of children, adolescents, or adults with asthma. 
Background 
Immunoglobulin E and interleukin‐5 are chemicals in the body that promote allergy (or an allergic response) in the airways and cause the symptoms of asthma. Some people with severe asthma take drugs that target immunoglobulin E or interleukin‐5, but these drugs don't work for everyone. Since interleukin‐4 and interleukin‐13 are also chemicals in our body that promote allergy (or an allergic response) in the airways, we looked at whether drugs that target interleukin‐4 and interleukin‐13 are safe and effective (compared with placebo ‐ a substance that has no therapeutic effect) for improving the symptoms or quality of life of people with asthma. 
Study characteristics 
We found 41 studies that compared anti‐interleukin‐4 or anti‐interleukin‐13 agents (or agents that target both interleukin‐13 and interleukin‐4) with placebo in people with asthma. No relevant studies were identified where anti‐interleukin‐4 or ‐13 agents were compared with either anti‐interleukin‐5 or anti‐immunoglobulin agents. Twenty‐nine of the included studies (10,604 participants) reported information that fed into this review. The evidence presented is current up to October 2020. Most of the people who took part in the included studies had moderate or severe, uncontrolled asthma and the average age of people in each study ranged from 22 to 55 years. Only four studies allowed recruitment of children and adolescents and participants in this age group accounted for less than 5% of those contributing data to his review. Most studies tested whether dupilumab, an interleukin‐4 agent (four studies), or the anti‐interleukin‐13 agents lebrikizumab (eight studies) or tralokinumab (nine studies), were better than placebo. 
