Treatment with all‐trans retinoic acid in addition to chemotherapy for adult patients with acute myeloid leukaemia (non‐APL) 
What is the aim of this review? 
This review aims to determine benefits and harms of all‐trans retinoic acid (ATRA) in addition to chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone for adults with AML. We did not evaluate participants with acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL). We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found eight studies. 
Key messages 
The addition of ATRA to chemotherapy did not show relevant differences in terms of overall survival (OS), but the subgroup analyses showed that there is potential benefit for ATRA in combination with a certain chemotherapeutic called decitabine , for older patients (over 60 years) and for patients who already had successful chemotherapy and now receive therapy for maintenance. We assessed the certainty of evidence as moderate for OS, disease‐free‐survival and on‐study mortality. 
Rates of toxicities were low, therefore certainty of evidence is 'very low' to 'low' for the adverse events diarrhoea, nausea/vomiting and cardiac toxicity. For the adverse event infection, we judged the certainty of evidence as moderate. Currently, it seems the risk of adverse events with additional ATRA are comparable to chemotherapy only. 
Quality of life was not reported by any of the included trials.
What was studied in this review? 
Acute myeloid leukaemia is a life‐threatening type of cancer that starts in the blood‐forming cells of the bone marrow and can cause many different signs and symptoms. It is classified into several subtypes, of which one subtype, acute promyelocytic leukaemia (APL) is treated differently to the other subtypes. 
Almost 60% of patients are older than 65 years at the time of diagnosis. Because of advanced age and accompanying diseases an intensive therapy with high‐dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation often is not possible or is accompanied by high risks for serious adverse events and treatment‐related mortality. For these reasons it would be important to know a less intensive and dangerous therapy for older patients. 
All‐trans retinoic acid (ATRA), an intermediate product of vitamin A, had been integrated into treatment regimens for APL by the end of the 1980s. It is administered orally and is generally well tolerated but can induce a severe, life‐threatening complication called differentiation syndrome, which includes breathing difficulties and fever. 
The literature provides contradictory data about the benefit of ATRA for patients with AML. It has been reported to increase the sensitivity of AML cell lines to chemotherapy by reducing one protein, which is associated with poor response to chemotherapy and therefore is related to a poor prognosis.These reports have led to the assumption that ATRA added to chemotherapy may improve outcomes and might replace or reduce the intensity of chemotherapy for patients with AML. 
What are the main results of this review? 
We found eight relevant studies with almost 4000 patients in total, conducted in the UK, Germany and France. These studies compared chemotherapy in combination with ATRA with chemotherapy alone in adult patients (over 18 years) with AML. All the included trials used different chemotherapy schedules, as there are several types of chemotherapy regimens for AML. Only in one trial did participants receive a newer drug, decitabine, which has been licensed for the treatment of AML since 2012. 
Adding ATRA to chemotherapy probably makes little or no difference to OS. ATRA may be potentially beneficial in combination with decitabine, for older patients (over 60 years) and for patients who receive therapy for maintenance, but these findings need to be explored by further research. 
For disease‐free‐survival, complete response rate and on‐study mortality there was probably no or little difference between treatment groups. 
The combination of ATRA probably did not lead to a higher infection rate. Regarding cardiac toxicity and diarrhoea, the certainty of the evidence was assessed as very low, so we are uncertain whether the addition of ATRA is beneficial. 
