Blood thinners for pulmonary hypertension
Background 
The heart has four chambers: two upper and two lower chambers. The lower right chamber, also known as the right ventricle, pumps blood through the pulmonary artery to the lungs, where the blood receives oxygen. Pulmonary hypertension occurs when pressure in the pulmonary arteries is increased to above normal (8 to 25 mmHg). When this happens over time, inflammation of the pulmonary artery occurs. The arteries may then become stiff and tighten. These changes make it difficult for the heart to pump blood to the lungs. The heart becomes weaker as it tries to push against this pressure; the resulting disturbance to blood flow can lead to blood clots. These clots can travel to the lungs, which can worsen the person's condition and may result in death. 
People with pulmonary hypertension may complain of tiredness, chest pain and shortness of breath during normal activities like walking and running, which may progress to affect all physical activities. Prospects of survival depend on several factors, but pregnancy is strongly associated with poor survival. 
Treatment of this disease is multi‐faceted and includes rehabilitation, psychosocial support and surgical and medical treatment. Medical treatment includes the use of blood thinners such as warfarin, heparin, fondaparinux, argatroban, dabigatran, apixaban and rivaroxaban. Blood thinners work by preventing the formation of clot. The blood thinner of choice, warfarin, needs close monitoring with daily to weekly laboratory testing to maintain the therapeutic target; this monitoring may be difficult to keep up with. The major side effect of blood thinners is bleeding, which can manifest as easy bruising, bleeding in the digestive tract and bleeding into the brain; severe cases can be fatal. 
Review question 
We set out to evaluate the effectiveness of blood thinners in the treatment of pulmonary hypertension. No eligible studies (randomised controlled trials) were found. Review of other studies (non‐randomised controlled trials) shows the effectiveness of this intervention. However, these findings should be interpreted with caution because of the low quality of evidence provided by these studies. 
