Household interventions for preventing domestic lead exposure in children
Why is this review important? 
Lead exposure is a serious health risk, especially for children. Lead poisoning at high levels can cause anaemia, multi‐organ damage, seizures, coma and death in children. At chronic low levels, it can lead to cognitive (thought processes), psychological (mental and emotional states) and neurobehavioural impairment (e.g. aggression, hyperactivity). There are many potential sources of lead in the environment, therefore researchers have studied different educational and environmental household interventions to reduce lead exposure in children, such as parental education, removal of lead dust or home remediation work. However, it is not clear if and to what extent these interventions work in reducing or preventing further lead exposure in children. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ Parents and carers who want to prevent domestic lead exposure in children.
‐ Health professionals and decision‐makers who are interested in methods to prevent domestic lead exposure in children. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
We wanted to find out if educational or environmental household interventions, or combinations of both, are effective in preventing or reducing further domestic lead exposure in children up to 18 years of age. We were interested in looking at improvements in cognitive and neurobehavioural development, potential harms, reductions in blood lead levels and household lead dust levels. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched databases up to March 2020 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; where participants are randomly assigned, in this case, to one or more groups to receive the treatment and one group that does not) and quasi‐RCTs (where children are assigned to groups using methods that are not strictly random). We found 17 studies (three new to this update), involving 3282 children from birth to six years of age. The studies investigated educational or environmental interventions, or a combination of both, to reduce domestic lead exposure in children. Children in all studies were under six years of age. Fifteen studies took place in urban areas of North America, one in Australia and one in China. Most studies were performed in areas with low socioeconomic status. Boys and girls were equally represented in the studies. The duration of the intervention ranged from three months to 24 months in 15 studies, and two studies performed an intervention on a single occasion. Fourteen studies used flawed methods that could distort their results, making them less trustworthy. 
Follow‐up periods ranged from three months to eight years. National or international research grants or governments funded 15 studies; two studies did not report their funding sources. 
What does the evidence from the review reveal? 
Educational interventions:  none of the included studies in this comparison assessed effects on cognitive or neurobehavioural outcomes, or harms. Compared to no intervention, educational interventions probably result in no differences in blood lead levels of young children or floor dust levels (moderate‐quality evidence). 
