Parenting programmes for the prevention of unintentional injuries in childhood  
This review looked at whether parent education and training programmes (called parenting programmes) help parents provide a safer home environment and reduce injuries in children. We undertook the review because several factors that can increase the risk of unintentional injury to children may be helped by parents' attending parenting programmes, such as mothers' mental health and child behaviour problems. In addition, injuries are more likely to occur when parents are unable to predict a child’s ability to perform tasks such as climbing furniture or opening locks. Parenting programmes may help parents develop realistic expectations of their child's behaviour based on age and stage of development. Therefore, we wanted to assess whether parenting programmes reduced the risk of unintentional injuries in children, and whether parents provided a safer home environment by using more items of safety equipment, such as stair gates, and by adopting safe practices such as keeping medicines out of reach. 
Through searches of databases and web sites, we found 22 randomised and non‐randomised studies that evaluated the effects of parenting programmes on childhood injuries or home safety. Fifteen of these were home visiting programmes that provided a range of support services, as well as parent education or training. These programmes were usually provided to families who were disadvantaged, whose children were considered to be at risk of poor health, or who may benefit from extra support. 
We pooled the results from 10 randomised controlled trials, which included a total of 5074 children, and found that children from families who had completed the parenting programmes had sustained fewer injuries than those from families who had not attended the programmes. We pooled the results from three randomized controlled trials that measured home safety using the Home Observation for Measurement of the Environment (HOME) tool. The results from these three studies, which included a total of 368 children, showed no difference in HOME scores between families receiving parenting programmes and those not receiving these programmes. Overall, the quality of the studies was reasonable. 
