Dressings that use negative pressure for closed surgical wounds
Key messages  
Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) probably results in fewer surgical site infections (SSIs) than standard dressings in people with closed wounds after surgery. 
NPWT probably makes no difference to the proportion of people with wound reopening (dehiscence) after surgery and may make little or no difference to the number of people who die. 
NPWT may increase the number of people with skin blistering after surgery but may make little or no difference to other outcomes. 
The cost‐effectiveness of NPWT and how certain we are about this depends on the type of surgery. 
What are surgical wounds healing by primary closure?  
Surgical wounds healing by primary closure are incisions created by surgery where the edges have been brought together, usually by using stitches or staples. Most surgical wounds heal in this way. A potential complication of surgery is SSI, an infection at the site of a surgical wound. The proportion of people who develop an SSI after surgery can be as high as 40%. An SSI can cause pain and discomfort, as well as increasing a person’s length of hospital stay and cost of treatment. 
What did we want to find out?  
NPWT is a sealed wound dressing attached to a vacuum pump which sucks fluid away from the wound. This may assist with wound healing and reduce risk of infection. We wanted to find out whether NPWT was better compared with standard wound dressings (usually gauze and tape) for treating people who had had surgery and had wounds which had been closed. We were interested in complications including SSI; wound reopening (dehiscence) and death for any reason. We also looked at several other outcomes including the need for another operation, the need to be admitted to hospital again, pain, quality of life, as well as some specific types of complications (haematoma (an accumulation of blood under the skin), seroma (an accumulation of clear fluid under the skin), skin blisters).  
