Metformin in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) for improving fertility
Review question 
The aim of this review was to determine if metformin improves live birth and clinical pregnancy rates and whether it reduces the incidence of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) in women with PCOS undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). 
Background 
In women with PCOS there is a chronic failure or absence of ovulation (anovulation) and excessive production of male hormones (hyperandrogenism). The main symptoms of the disorder are irregular periods, infertility, hirsutism (excessive facial and body hair growth), and acne. PCOS is the most common endocrine disorder in women, affecting 5% to 10% of women of reproductive age. IVF could be an effective treatment option for infertility in women with PCOS who do not respond to ovulation induction treatments. In the first part of IVF treatment, ovarian stimulation using gonadotrophins is necessary to develop more mature oocytes in order to produce more good‐quality embryos to be transferred into the uterus. This overstimulation increases the risk of developing a serious complication known as ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS). Strategies used during IVF treatments to decrease the risk of OHSS include: low‐dose gonadotrophin ovarian stimulation, metformin co‐treatment, use of gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone (GnRH)‐antagonist protocol instead of GnRH‐agonist, and use of GnRH‐agonist trigger to final oocyte maturation rather than the usual human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG)‐trigger. 
Study characteristics 
We included 13 randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) involving a total of 1132 women assigned to receive either metformin (570) or placebo (dummy treatment)/no treatment (563). The evidence is current to 13 February 2020. 
Key results 
We divided the analysis by type of ovarian stimulation protocol used during the IVF treatment (long GnRH‐agonist or short GnRH‐antagonist) to determine whether the type of stimulation used influenced the outcomes. We are uncertain of the effect of metformin using long protocol GnRH‐agonist on live birth rates compared with placebo or no treatment, but metformin may increase clinical pregnancy rate with this type of ovarian stimulation protocol. Metformin may reduce the incidence of OHSS. We estimated that for a woman with a 28% chance of achieving a live birth (long protocol GnRH‐agonist) following placebo or no treatment, the chance following metformin would be between 27% and 51%. For a woman with a 28% chance of achieving a clinical pregnancy in long protocol GnRH‐agonist without metformin, the chance using metformin would be between 30% and 45%. 
