Laser therapy for retinopathy in sickle cell disease
Review question  To evaluate the effectiveness of various techniques of laser photocoagulation in sickle cell disease‐related proliferative retinopathy (development of sight‐threatening complications due to excessive growth of blood vessels in the back of the eye). 
Background  Sickle cell disease is a genetic disorder affecting many organs including eyes. The back of the eye (retina) can develop problems due to sickle cell disease. A certain number of people with sickle cell disease develop sight‐threatening complications due to excessive blood vessel growth in the retina which is known as proliferative sickle retinopathy. Laser therapy is used to control the growth of new blood vessels in affected eyes. There are different types and techniques of laser used in treatment. However, it is not known whether these various laser treatments offer advantages compared to no treatment or other interventions with regards to effectiveness and safety. 
Search date  The evidence is current to: 21 September 2015. 
Study characteristics  We included two randomised trials with 341 eyes of 238 participants comparing laser treatment to no intervention. There were 121 males and 117 females with an age range from 13 to 67 years. The trials employed different types of laser treatment. One trial employed scatter laser treatment in which lasers were applied to the retina near the new blood vessels using argon laser. Another employed feeder vessel laser coagulation in which lasers were applied directly to feeding blood vessels using xenon arc as well as argon laser. Participants were followed up for an average of 21 to 47 months. 
Key results  There is mixed evidence on the benefits of using laser therapy in people with retinopathy related to sickle cell disease. For instance, the effect of laser therapy on stopping the progression of new blood vessels and the development of new lesions did not differ greatly between the groups. However, there is evidence that laser therapy may prevent loss of vision and sight‐threatening complications. Patient‐important outcome data, such as quality of life, were not reported. 
The safety of laser treatment is acceptable, particularly scatter laser treatment using an argon laser. Although xenon arc lasers are associated with a higher number of complications, a loss of vision is not common. However, given that there are few trials with relatively low quality evidence, results should be treated with caution. Further research is needed to examine the safety of laser treatment compared to other interventions. In addition, patient‐important outcomes (such as quality of life and loss of driving licence) as well as cost‐effectiveness should be addressed. 
Quality of the evidence  Both trials were at risk of bias due to the way participants were selected for groups (especially since treatment may be required for both eyes). One study was considered to be at risk of reporting bias as some results were only presented for one of the two treatment groups. 
