Laparoscopic (key hole) operation versus open operation for treatment of people with stomach cancer 
Review question 
Is laparoscopic treatment (key hole surgery) equivalent to open surgical treatment for treatment of people with gastric (stomach) cancer? 
Background 
Stomach cancer is the third most frequent cause of cancer‐related death in the world. If cancer has not spread to other areas of the body, and if the person can withstand a major operation, depending upon the part of the stomach involved, removal of part of the stomach, or the entire stomach (gastrectomy), is the only treatment that offers long‐term cure of cancer. Gastrectomy can be performed by laparoscopic (key hole) operation, or by open operation, which involves a large cut. While the cut is smaller with key hole surgery, it is not clear whether key hole surgery is as safe as open surgery, and whether it offers any advantages in terms of quicker recovery of people undergoing gastrectomy. We sought to resolve this issue by searching the medical literature for studies reported until September 2015 that compared laparoscopic and open gastrectomy in people with stomach cancer. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 13 eligible studies (2794 participants) for this review. One trial did not report any information that we sought. Information on 213 participants was not reported because of various reasons, the common reason being that they did not receive the planned treatment. A total of 2528 participants received either laparoscopic gastrectomy (1288 participants) or open gastrectomy (1240 participants). The decision on whether a participant received laparoscopic or open gastrectomy was made using methods similar to the toss of a coin. This process ensures that the participants in the two groups are similar. All the participants were suitable for major surgery. 
Key results 
There was no difference between laparoscopic and open gastrectomy in short‐term deaths (laparoscopic gastrectomy: 6 deaths in 1000 operations versus open gastrectomy: 3 deaths in 1000 operations). There is a certain amount of uncertainty when predicting the number of deaths or outcomes based on information in the trials. Because of this uncertainty, we were able to conclude that there was no difference in short‐term deaths between the groups, although the deaths in laparoscopic gastrectomy was twice that in open gastrectomy. None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life, time to return to normal activity or time to return to work. The differences in long‐term deaths, serious complications within three months (laparoscopic gastrectomy: 36 complications per 1000 operations versus open gastrectomy: 60 complications per 1000 operations), all complications within three months (laparoscopic gastrectomy: 161 complications per 1000 operations versus open gastrectomy: 253 complications in 1000 operations, short‐term and long‐term recurrence of cancer, number of people who required blood transfusion, amount of blood transfused during or within one week of surgery, and length of hospital stay were imprecise. As a result, significant benefits or harms of laparoscopic gastrectomy compared to open gastrectomy cannot be ruled out. Further well designed trials are necessary to compare the benefits and harms of laparoscopic and open gastrectomy. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was very low for all outcomes, apart from short‐term mortality, which was low. As a result, there is a lot of uncertainty regarding the results. 
