Colonoscopy‐based prophylactic therapy for postoperative Crohn’s disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder that can affect any segment of the gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms include abdominal pain, non‐bloody diarrhoea and weight loss. CD is characterised by periods of clinical relapse when people experience symptoms and periods of clinical remission when the symptoms stop. Despite the available therapies, about half of patients require surgery and resection of the affected segment within 10 years of diagnosis. This surgery is highly effective, however, the majority require a second surgery after 10 years. 
What is colonoscopy? 
Colonoscopy is a procedure whereby a physician inserts a viewing tube (colonoscope) into the rectum for the purpose of inspecting the colon. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
Most patients that experience a clinical relapse of CD have inflammation of the intestinal mucosa weeks or months before starting with symptoms. This asymptomatic inflammation can be detected by colonoscopy and it is usually called endoscopic recurrence. The researchers investigated whether the initiation or intensification of prophylactic‐therapy guided by the detection of endoscopic recurrence may improve the prognosis of postoperative CD. 
What are the issues related to start prophylactic‐therapy in asymptomatic patients? 
The drugs usually used as prophylactic‐therapy in CD are 5‐aminosalicylates, antibiotics, thiopurines, methotrexate and/or anti‐tumour necrosis factor antibody (anti‐TNFα) drugs. The main issues related to these drugs are costs and adverse effects. The most frequent adverse events are alopecia, gastrointestinal intolerance, infections, sensory symptoms, lupus, vasculitis, leukopenia, pancreatitis, skin lesions and less frequently skin and haematological cancer. 
How was this study performed? 
A systematic review of the current literature was performed to assess the efficacy of prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy in reducing the postoperative recurrence of CD. An electronic search of several databases was performed and studies that met our inclusion criteria were selected for further evaluation. 
