Direct electrical current to the brain to improve rehabilitation outcomes
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of direct electrical current to the brain (transcranial direct current stimulation, tDCS) to reduce impairment in activities of daily living (ADL), arm and leg function, muscle strength and cognitive abilities (including spatial neglect), dropouts and adverse events in people after stroke. 
Background 
Stroke is one of the leading causes of disability worldwide. Most strokes take place when a blood clot blocks a blood vessel leading to the brain. Without a proper blood supply, the brain quickly suffers damage, which can be permanent. This damage often causes impairment of ADL, motor and cognitive function among stroke survivors. According to people with stroke, carers and health professionals, improving cognitive abilities after stroke is the number one research priority in this field of medicine. Therefore, neurological rehabilitation, including effective training strategies, is needed to facilitate recovery and to reduce the burden of stroke. Therapies tailored to patients' and carers' needs are especially important. Current rehabilitation strategies have limited effectiveness in improving these impairments. One possibility for enhancing the effects of rehabilitation might be the addition of brain stimulation without breaking the skin, by means of tDCS. This technique can alter how the brain works and may be used to reduce impairment of ADL and function. However, the effectiveness of this intervention for improving rehabilitation outcomes is still unknown. 
Search date 
The review is current to January 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included 67 studies involving a total of 1729 adult participants with acute, postacute or chronic ischaemic or haemorrhagic stroke. The mean age in the experimental groups ranged from 43 years up to 70 years, and from 45 years up to 75 years in the control groups. The level of participants' impairment ranged from severe to moderate. The majority of studies were conducted in an inpatient setting. Several different stimulation types with different stimulation durations and dosages were administered and compared with sham tDCS or an active control intervention. Sham tDCS means that the stimulation is switched off covertly in the first minute of the intervention. 
