Bioabsorbable versus metal screw for graft fixation in the surgical treatment of anterior cruciate ligament injury 
Background 
The anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) is a knee ligament that functions to stabilise the knee. ACL injuries are more common in athletes, such as football, basketball and handball players. Many people with ACL injuries are treated with surgery to reconstruct this ligament. In ACL reconstruction, a replacement ligament (graft) is attached to tunnels drilled into the end of the femur (thigh bone) and tibia (shin bone). Often screws are used to attach the graft to the bone. Traditionally, metal screws have been used. Although these are generally successful, metallic screws can be hard to remove if further surgery is required. They also interfere with looking at the knee using magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). With the aim of avoiding these disadvantages, and in response to patient requests, screws made ​​from materials that dissolve over time (bioabsorbable screws) were introduced. However, such screws have been reported to have increased risks of inflammation, infection, and failed surgery. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to January 2016 for randomised studies comparing bioabsorbable with metal screws for graft fixation. We included 12 studies involving 944 participants undergoing surgery (ACL reconstruction). 
Key results 
We found evidence that self‐reported measures of knee function were similar at one, two and five of more years in those treated whose grafts were fixed with bioabsorbable screws to those whose grafts were fixed with metal screws. Similarly, no differences were seen between the two types of screws in levels of activity at one and two years. However, there was evidence that bioabsorbable screws may be associated with more treatment failures. These include screw breakage during surgery, and greater numbers of graft rupture. 
Quality of the evidence 
All 12 studies had weaknesses that could affect the reliability of their results. We considered the evidence was very low quality meaning that we are unsure of these results. 
Conclusions 
The limited evidence does not show that knee function and activity levels are any better after bioabsorbable screws compared with metal screws. However, such screws may break during surgery and may result in a greater risk of later treatment failure. Further research does not appear to be a priority but if undertaken should also examine costs. 
