Routine monitoring of stomach aspirates for prevention of necrotising enterocolitis in preterm infants 
Review question Does routine monitoring of stomach aspirates in preterm infants prevent necrotising enterocolitis? 
Background Monitoring of stomach aspirates to diagnose feed intolerance and necrotising enterocolitis is a common practice in preterm infants who are on tube feeds. No adequate evidence supports routine monitoring of stomach aspirates as a guide to initiating and increasing feeds in otherwise healthy preterm infants. Withholding monitoring of stomach aspirates may take away the early indicator and thus may increase the risk of necrotising enterocolitis. However, routine monitoring of stomach aspirates as a guide, in the absence of uniform standards, may lead to unnecessary delay in initiation and advancement of feeds and delay in reaching full feeds. This in turn may increase the duration of parenteral nutrition and central line usage, thus increasing their complications. Delay in achieving full feeds increases the risk of growth restriction and neurodevelopmental impairment. We have looked for evidence from clinical trials that assessed whether routine monitoring of stomach aspirates is beneficial or harmful in preterm infants. 
Study characteristics The literature searches are up‐to‐date as of 19 February 2018. We found two small randomised controlled trials with a total of 141 preterm infant participants that compared routine monitoring versus no monitoring of stomach aspirates in preterm infants. We found one trial for the comparison of using two different criteria of aspirates to interrupt feeds while monitoring stomach aspirates in preterm infants. 
Key results There is uncertainty as to whether routine monitoring of stomach aspirates reduces necrotising enterocolitis because trial results are imprecise. Preterm infants on routine monitoring of stomach aspirates may reach full feeds later, regain birth weight later, require longer duration of parenteral nutrition, and may be at increased risk of feed interruption episodes. 
There is uncertainty as to whether using two different criteria of gastric residual to interrupt feeds has effect on important outcomes in preterm infants. 
Conclusions There is uncertainty as to whether routine monitoring of stomach aspirates has any benefits. Routine monitoring may increase the number of feed interruption episodes and the time taken to reach full feeds. 
