How accurate is MR perfusion, an advanced MRI method, for differentiating low‐grade gliomas from high‐grade gliomas in children and adults? 
Why is differentiation of low‐grade and high‐grade gliomas important? 
Low‐grade gliomas (LGGs) are slow growing brain tumours that have a typical appearance on standard MRI. Patients with LGGs who have few or no symptoms may prefer to delay treatment until such time they experience progression of their symptoms or appearance of the tumour on MRI; this is called the watch‐and‐wait approach. However occasionally, high‐grade gliomas (HGGs), which are aggressive and require early treatment, can mimic the appearance of LGGs. It is only by examining tissues obtained by surgery ‐ either through sampling (biopsy) or removal of tumour (resection) ‐ can LGG and HGG be definitively differentiated. But a patient with few or no symptoms may want to avoid risking early neurologic disability resulting from surgery. Thus an accurate noninvasive method to differentiate gliomas can aid patients' decision making whether to opt for a watch‐and‐wait approach or undergo early treatment. 
What is the aim of this review? 
The review aims to determine how accurate MR perfusion is for differentiating LGGs and HGGs, and what factors affect its accuracy. Researchers in Cochrane included seven studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in this review? 
An advanced MRI technique called MR perfusion was studied. This method detects abnormal blood vessels which are increased from low‐ to high‐grade gliomas. Unlike surgery, MR perfusion is noninvasive and allows clinicians to determine if a watch‐and‐wait approach can be adopted by patients, i.e. delay treatment including the initial tissue examination which requires surgery. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The analysis included results from 115 patients. The results indicate that in theory, if MR perfusion were to be used in 100 patients with brain tumours that look like LGG on standard MRI scan, of whom 72 actually have LGG, then: ‐ an estimated 74 will have an MR perfusion result indicating that they have LGGs, and of these 15 will have HGGs; ‐ an estimated 26 will have an MR perfusion result indicating that they have HGGs, and of these 13 will have LGGs. 
How reliable are the results of the studies in this review? 
In the included studies, the diagnosis of LGG or HGG was made by assessing all patients with tissue examination, and a majority underwent resection. This is considered a reliable method for deciding whether patients actually had LGGs or HGGs. 
