Fresh frozen plasma for patients undergoing surgery on the heart or blood vessels
Fresh frozen plasma is obtained from whole blood from blood donors. It contains a number of factors that help blood to clot. The risk of bleeding in open heart surgery or surgery on the main blood vessels in the body is high. Fresh frozen plasma is sometimes administered to these patients to reduce bleeding. It can be administered prophylactically (to prevent bleeding) or therapeutically (to treat bleeding). However, there are risks of side effects from fresh frozen plasma, such as severe allergic reactions or breathing problems. 
We searched scientific sources to identify eligible trials and found 15 studies with 755 patients. The evidence is up to date to April 2015. Fourteen studies compared prophylactic FFP against no FFP and one study compared two types of FFP, both used therapeutically. No studies reported on all outcomes. There was either high risk of bias, or unclear risk, in the majority of trials included in this review. 
Our primary outcome was death within 30 days after surgery. Six trials (with 287 patients) looked at this outcome and found no clear difference in mortality between the treatment arms but the quality of the evidence was very low. There was also no difference in the amount of blood lost in the first 24 hours following surgery (measured in five trials; low quality evidence), or the risk of returning to theatre for a reoperation (measured in eight trials; moderate quality evidence). Patients who had FFP received significantly more red blood cells, suggesting that FFP may not be effective in this setting (moderate quality evidence). Measurement of a blood test used to assess blood clotting (prothrombin time) was reported in eight trials and showed that clotting was improved by the use of prophylactic FFP (moderate quality evidence). However, the difference was too small to make a difference in clinical practice. Only one included study reported adverse events as an outcome and reported no adverse events due to FFP transfusion. 
The review found no evidence for the efficacy of FFP for the prevention of bleeding in heart surgery and it found some evidence of an increased overall need for red cell transfusion in those treated with FFP. There were no reported adverse events due to FFP transfusion. Overall the evidence for the safety and efficacy of prophylactic FFP for cardiac surgery is insufficient. The trials focused on prevention of bleeding and did not address prevention of bleeding for patients with abnormal blood clotting or for the treatment of bleeding patients. 
