Wearing stockings to provide compression for the treatment of varicose veins
Review question 
What is the effectiveness of compression stockings as the only and initial treatment of varicose veins in people without healed or active venous ulceration (leg ulcers)? 
Background 
Varicose veins are widened veins that twist and turn and are visible under the skin of the legs. They generally do not cause medical problems, although many people seek medical advice. Symptoms may include pain, ankle swelling, tired legs, restless legs, night cramps, heaviness, itching and distress from their cosmetic appearance. Complications such as oedema (build‐up of fluid), pigmentation, inflammation (swelling, redness and pain) and ulceration (sores) can also develop. Compression stockings are often the first line of treatment and come in a variety of lengths from knee‐length to full tights, and apply different pressures to support the flow of blood in the veins. 
Study characteristics 
We included 13 studies involving 1021 participants with varicose veins who had not experienced venous ulceration in this review (search run May 2020). Five studies assessed compression stocking versus no compression stocking (for example no treatment or placebo stocking with no graduated elastic). Three of these studies used knee‐length stockings, one used full‐length stockings and one used full tights. Eight studies compared different types or pressures of knee‐length stockings. The stockings used in the studies exerted different levels of pressure. One study included only pregnant women, while other studies included people who had sought medical intervention for their varicose veins by being on surgical waiting lists, or attending vascular surgery or dermatology (skin care) clinics or outpatient departments. 
Key results 
Participants considered their symptoms had improved when stockings were worn in the nine studies that assessed this outcome, but these assessments were not always made by comparing one treatment group of the trial with a control group in the same study and was therefore subject to bias. 
Two studies comparing stockings with placebo stockings measured physical signs; there was no clear difference between baseline and follow‐up for ankle circumference, while oedema was reduced in the stocking group compared with the placebo stocking group. Generally there were no clear differences between studies comparing two types of stockings for volume reduction and change in diameter (ways to measure oedema). 
Complications or side effects ranged from sweating, itching, irritation, skin dryness and a feeling of tightness. There were no severe or long‐lasting side effects. 
Two studies comparing stockings with different stockings, and four studies comparing stockings with placebo/no treatment assessed compliance (whether the person used the stockings as directed). In the stocking versus different stocking studies, there was no clear difference between the stockings, with generally low levels of compliance reported. In the stocking versus placebo/no treatment group, three studies reported results. Of these, one study reported a high initial dropout rate with generally low levels of compliance. The other two studies reported generally good compliance in the stocking group. Some reasons provided for non‐compliance included discomfort, difficulty in putting the stockings on, appearance, not being effective and causing irritation. 
