Does giving chemotherapy before surgery improve survival or quality of life for women with advanced ovarian epithelial cancer? 
What is the issue?Epithelial ovarian cancer, arising from the surface layer of the ovaries or lining of the fallopian tubes, is the ninth most common cancer worldwide in women, and is the most common form of ovarian cancer (approximately 90% of ovarian cancers). Unfortunately, most women with ovarian cancer present at a late stage, when their disease has spread throughout the abdomen. This is because ovarian cancer often arises from the ends of the fallopian tubes, from where single cells can drop out into the abdominal cavity even when the primary tumour is microscopic. These tumour cells circulate around the abdominal cavity in the lubricating peritoneal fluid, implant on other surfaces and grow over time until they cause symptoms. Even then, symptoms, such as bloating and bowel disturbance (most commonly constipation), are nonspecific and easily attributed to more common benign conditions. In Europe and the UK, just over a third of women diagnosed with ovarian cancer are alive five years after diagnosis. 
Conventional treatment for ovarian cancer involves two modalities of treatment: surgery and chemotherapy. The intention of surgery is to stage the disease (assess where the cancer has spread to) and remove as much of the visible (macroscopic) cancer as possible (known as debulking or cytoreduction), preferably to the point where the surgical team is not able to see any visible residual disease in the abdominal cavity. However, since most women will have widespread disease, surgery alone is unlikely to cure the disease and most will also need chemotherapy. Chemotherapy for ovarian cancer uses platinum‐based drugs to treat cells that cannot be removed by surgery (macroscopic disease) or are too small to be seen (microscopic disease). Traditionally, chemotherapy was given after surgery (primary debulking surgery (PDS) and adjuvant chemotherapy) . However, chemotherapy can be used before surgery (known as neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) and interval debulking surgery (IDS)) with the aim of shrinking the cancer and allowing women to get better prior to undertaking major surgery. Women who receive NACT and IDS complete the remaining cycles of chemotherapy following surgery. 
