Carbamazepine versus phenytoin (given as a single drug treatment) for epilepsy
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review previously published in Issue 2, 2017 of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in which recurrent seizures are caused by abnormal electrical discharges from the brain. We studied two types of epileptic seizures in this review: generalised onset seizures, in which electrical discharges begin in one part of the brain and move throughout the brain, and focal onset seizures in which the seizure is generated in and affects only one part of the brain (the whole hemisphere of the brain or part of a lobe of the brain). For around 70% of people with epilepsy, generalised onset or focal onset seizures can be controlled by a single antiepileptic drug. Worldwide, phenytoin and carbamazepine are commonly used antiepileptic drugs, although carbamazepine is used more often in the USA and Europe due to concerns over side effects associated with phenytoin. Phenytoin is still commonly used in low‐ and middle‐income countries in Africa, Asia and South America, because of the low cost of the drug. 
Objective 
For this updated review, we looked at the evidence from 11 randomised controlled clinical trials comparing phenytoin and carbamazepine, based on how effective the drugs were at controlling seizures (i.e. whether people went back to having seizures or had long periods of freedom from seizures (remission)), and how tolerable any related side effects of the drugs were. 
Methods 
We were able to combine data for 595 people from four of the 11 trials; for the remaining 507 people from seven trials, information was not available to use in this review. The evidence is current to August 2018. 
Key results 
This review of trials found no difference between these two drugs for the seizure types studied for the outcomes of treatment failure (withdrawal from treatment for any reason and also withdrawal from treatment due to continuing seizures or due to side effects) and controlling seizures (recurrence of seizures or achievement of a seizure‐free period (remission) of six months or 12 months). Three‐quarters of the people recruited in the four trials had focal onset seizures and only one quarter of the people recruited in the four trials had generalised onset seizures, so the results of this review mainly apply to people with focal onset seizures and the results are very limited for people with generalised onset seizures. More information is needed for people with generalised onset seizures. 
