How accurate are smartphone applications ('apps') for detecting melanoma in adults?
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out how well smartphone applications can help the general public understand whether their skin lesions might be melanoma. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of malignant melanoma skin cancer important? 
Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms of skin cancer. Not recognising a melanoma (a false negative test result) could delay seeking appropriate advice and surgery to remove it. This increases the risk of the cancer spreading to other organs in the body and possibly causing death. Diagnosing a skin lesion as a melanoma when it is not present (a false positive result) may cause anxiety and lead to unnecessary surgery and further investigations. 
What was studied in the review? 
Specialised applications ('apps') that provide advice on skin lesions or moles that might cause people concern are widely available for smartphones. Some apps allow people to photograph any skin lesion they might be worried about and then receive guidance on whether to get medical advice. Apps may automatically classify lesions as high or low risk, while others can act as store‐and‐forward devices where images are sent to an experienced professional, such as a dermatologist, who then makes a risk assessment based on the photo. Cochrane researchers found two studies, evaluating five apps that used automated analysis of images and one that used a store‐and‐forward approach, to evaluate suspicious skin lesions. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included two studies with 332 lesions, including 86 melanomas, analysed by at least one smartphone application. Both studies used photographs of moles or skin lesions that were about to be removed because doctors had already decided they could be melanomas. The photographs were taken by doctors instead of people taking pictures of their lesions with their own smartphones. For these reasons, we are not able to make a reliable estimate about how well the apps actually work. 
Four apps that produce an immediate (automated) assessment of a skin lesion or mole that has been photographed by the smartphone missed between 7 and 55 melanomas. 
One app that sends the photograph of a mole or skin lesion to a dermatologist for assessment missed only one melanoma. Another 6 melanomas examined by the dermatologist via the application were not classified as high risk; instead the dermatologist was not able to classify the lesion as either 'atypical' (possibly a melanoma) or 'typical' (definitely not a melanoma). 
How reliable are the results of the studies of this review? 
The small number and poor quality of included studies reduces the reliability of findings. The people included were not typical of those who would use the applications in real life. The final diagnosis of melanoma was made by histology, which is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had melanoma*. However, the studies excluded between 2% and 18% of images because the applications failed to produce a recommendation. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Studies took place in the USA and Germany. They did not report key patient information such as age and gender. The percentage of people with a final diagnosis of melanoma was 18% and 35%, much higher than that observed in community settings. The definition of eligible patients was narrow in comparison to likely users of the applications. The photographs used were taken by doctors rather than by smartphone users, which seriously impacts the applicability of results. 
What are the implications of this review? 
Current smartphone applications using automated analysis are observed to have a high chance of missing melanomas (false negatives). Store‐and‐forward image applications could have a potential role in the timely identification of people with potentially malignant lesions by facilitating early engagement of those with suspicious skin lesions, but they have resource and workload implications. 
