Pain control using local anaesthetics to improve surgical results after shoulder, hip and knee replacement surgery 
Review question 
Doctors can use regional analgesia (injection of local anaesthetics near the nerves or the surgical site) rather than conventional pain control after surgery. Does this choice improve long‐term function after elective major joint (knee, shoulder and hip) replacement? We conducted this systematic review to explore controversy about the use of regional analgesia amidst efforts to limit healthcare costs and demonstrate value for interventions. 
Background 
People undergo knee, shoulder and hip joint replacement to improve their mobility, pain and function. Local anaesthetics are injected near the nerves or the surgical site to decrease pain after surgery. Regional analgesia has been shown to lead to better surgical results (joint range of motion, strength, ability to walk, climb stairs, etc.) in the days immediately after surgery. It is unclear whether this effect lasts beyond three months. 
Study characteristics 
We searched electronic databases and abstracts for relevant studies. The search was last updated in June 2015. We found six studies, with 350 participants followed‐up for at least three months. All of these studies enrolled participants undergoing knee replacement. 
Key results 
Because the studies did not report the same outcomes, it was difficult to pool the results. We could only pool three out of six randomized controlled trials studying regional anaesthesia for better function after total knee replacement. Pooling data from 140 participants, with range of motion assessed at three months after surgery, there was no statistically significant difference between the use of regional analgesia and conventional pain control with intravenous medications. 
None of the included studies examined long‐term adverse effects like persistent nerve damage. 
Quality of the evidence 
We deemed the quality of the evidence to be very low, as the included studies were not considered to be of high calibre and included few participants. 
