Pain medications (NSAIDs: nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs) around the time of surgery in women undergoing breast surgery 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether NSAID pain medication reduces pain around the time of any breast surgery compared to no medication (placebo) or other pain medication (e.g. opioids). Possible side effects from NSAIDS were reviewed and compared to side effects for patients either having no medication or other types of pain relief. NSAID pain medications include ketorolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, and celecoxib. 
Why does it matter? 
NSAIDs have been shown to decrease inflammation, pain, and fever, while potentially increasing the risks of bleeding complications. There are concerns about the safety of NSAID pain medication during breast surgery, but they still may be better than other drugs (opioids) which have different side effects of concern. 
What was studied in the review? 
Studies included women who received either a NSAID pain medication or placebo, other pain medication, or no medication. We wanted to assess breast bleeding, pain following surgery, postoperative nausea and vomiting, bleeding from any location, need for blood transfusion, any other side effects reported from NSAID use, opioid use within 24 hours of surgery, length of hospital stay, breast cancer recurrence, and non‐prescribed NSAID use. 
What did we find? 
We found 12 studies with a total of 1596 participants. The evidence is current to September 2020. Seven studies compared NSAIDs (ketorolac, diclofenac, flurbiprofen, parecoxib and celecoxib) to placebo. Four studies compared NSAIDs (ketorolac, flurbiprofen, ibuprofen, and celecoxib) to other pain medications. One study compared NSAIDs (diclofenac) to no medication. 
NSAIDs compared to placebo :the use of NSAIDs seems to make little difference to the incidence of breast hematoma (a collection of blood inside the armpit or breast surgical site) and bleeding from any location or increase in blood transfusions within 90 days of breast surgery. There was no increase in postoperative nausea and vomiting. NSAIDs may reduce pain within 24 hours after surgery and reduce the use of opioids within 24 hours after surgery. 
NSAIDs compared to other pain medications : the use of NSAIDs may make little difference to the incidence of breast hematoma or bleeding from any location or need for blood transfusion within 90 days of breast surgery. NSAIDs may reduce pain within 24 hours and reduce the chance of nausea and vomiting after surgery. There is little to no difference in the incidence of other side effects. NSAIDS may reduce opioid use within 24 hours of surgery compared to other pain medications. 
NSAIDs compared to no medication : the use of NSAIDs appears to make little to no difference in pain within 24 hours after surgery compared to no medication. 
Many studies did not collect or report data on the need for blood transfusions, length of hospital stay, breast cancer recurrence, and non‐prescribed NSAID pain medication use. 
What do the findings mean? 
In summary, the studies were small, different to each other and did not report all the possible side effects well. Therefore we could not make firm conclusions about the benefits or harms of NSAIDs. This review provides preliminary evidence, but more studies are needed to make sure there is no harm from the use of NSAIDS after breast surgery. Good‐quality large‐scale studies are required before any definitive conclusions can be made. 
