Progestogen for treating threatened miscarriage
What is the issue? 
Spontaneous miscarriage occurs in about 15% to 20% of pregnancies. Threatened miscarriage occurs when a mother might be losing her baby at less than 20 weeks' gestation. The symptoms of threatened miscarriage are vaginal bleeding, with or without abdominal pain, while the cervix of the womb is closed and the baby inside the womb is alive. Progesterone is a hormone that is known to prepare the uterus for implantation of the fertilized egg and suppress uterine contractions until term. Medications that mimic the action of progesterone are known as progestogens. Treatment with progestogens may be effective in reducing the rate of miscarriage in women who have threatened miscarriage. This Cochrane Review examines whether progestogens could reduce miscarriage for women with threatened miscarriage, and also addresses the safety of these medications for mother and baby. 
Why is this important? 
We were interested to investigate if progestogens are effective and safe in the treatment of threatened miscarriage, which may increase the women's chances of having a successful pregnancy and a live birth. 
What evidence did we find? 
In this review of the literature, up to August 2017, we identified seven randomised trials involving 696 women that compared the use of progestogens in the treatment of threatened miscarriage with either placebo or no treatment. We found that the use of a progestogen probably reduces the rate of spontaneous miscarriage and this was supported by moderate‐quality evidence. Five trials, involving 588 women, reported on the effectiveness of progestogens given for threatened miscarriage in reducing the rate of preterm delivery and showed little or no effect, with low‐quality evidence. Two trials, involving 337 women, reported on the effect of treatment with progestogens given for threatened miscarriage on the rate of occurrence of congenital abnormalities in the newborns. The evidence on congenital abnormalities is uncertain, because the quality of the evidence for this outcome was based on only two small trials with very few events and was found to be of very low quality. 
What does this mean? 
The evidence suggests that progesterone probably reduces the rate of spontaneous miscarriage but may make little or no difference to the number of preterm deliveries. The evidence for congenital abnormalities is uncertain because the quality of the evidence for this outcome was based on only two small trials with very few events and was found to be of very low quality. 
