Aspirin and other non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs for the prevention of dementia
Review question 
The purpose of this review was to investigate if aspirin and other non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) could help in the prevention of dementia. 
Background 
Dementia is a worldwide healthcare concern. At present, there is no medicine that is proven to delay or prevent the onset of dementia. The biology of dementia is still poorly understood. However, there are reasons to believe that inflammation may be partly responsible for some of the brain changes seen in dementia. There are many medicines that have anti‐inflammatory properties, including aspirin and NSAIDs that are often sold as pain killers. We wanted to see if these medicines had any effect on developing dementia. These medicines have a few potential side effects, including heart attack and bleeding, so we also assessed for any harmful effects of the medicines. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for relevant studies that had been published up to January 2020. We found four trials that met the inclusion criteria for this review (23,187 people). One trial was undertaken in the USA and Australia and three in the USA only. The trials included different populations. One was of aspirin in healthy people with no history of dementia, cardiovascular disease or physical disability. The other three were of NSAIDs other than aspirin and were conducted in healthy people with a family history of Alzheimer's disease, people with self‐reported memory loss and people with mild cognitive impairment (a slight but noticeable and measurable decline in cognitive abilities, including memory and thinking skills). All of the included studies had limitations. The study of aspirin was stopped early due to ineffectiveness. The three studies of other NSAIDs (celecoxib, naproxen and rofecoxib) were stopped early due to concerns around the safety. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
The aspirin study found that low‐dose aspirin (100 mg daily) did not prevent dementia in healthy older people, but resulted in higher rates of death and major bleeding compared to placebo (pretend tablet). We were very confident in this result. The NSAID studies did not find any evidence of a difference between the NSAIDs and placebo in terms of reducing the numbers of people developing dementia. In fact, in one of the studies, more people developed dementia in the NSAID group. One of the included NSAIDs studies reported more stomach bleeding and another reported other stomach problems, such as pain, nausea and gastritis. Other side effects were similar between groups. We were moderately confident in most of the results on NSAIDs. 
Conclusions 
This review found no evidence to support the use of either aspirin or other NSAIDs for the prevention of dementia and, in fact, there was some suggestion that they may cause harm. The studies had limitations, but, given the concerns over safety, further studies of low‐dose aspirin for dementia prevention seem unlikely. If future studies of NSAIDs for dementia prevention are planned, then these will need to be mindful of the safety concerns arising from the studies included in this review and from other studies of the same medicines. 
