Topiramate for acute affective episodes in bipolar disorder
Who may be interested in this review? 
People with bipolar disorder and their healthcare providers.
Why is this review important? 
Bipolar disorder is a mood disorder that is a common mental health problem. Patients may experience recurrent symptoms of elevated or irritable mood, depression, or a combination of both. Treatment is usually with psychiatric medication; commonly used medications include mood stabilisers, antidepressants, and antipsychotics. Topiramate is a drug used in epilepsy, however it may have a role in the treatment of bipolar disorder. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review investigated the effectiveness and acceptability of topiramate compared to placebo and other agents in the treatment of acute affective episodes in bipolar disorder. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched medical databases to find reports of clinical trials (specifically randomised controlled trials) published up to 13 October 2015. We identified six studies that involved 1638 people. The studies compared topiramate with placebo or conventional medication such as lithium, both on its own or in combination with other treatments such as sodium valproate or atypical antipsychotics. 
Five of the studies were at low risk of bias in the majority of the domains, and at unclear risk for allocation concealment (because of insufficient details regarding how those who admitted participants to a study were shielded from knowing the assignments) and other potential sources of bias (because they were industry funded). The McIntyre 2000 study was at high risk of performance bias (because participants and personnel knew who was taking each medication); at low risk for attrition bias and reporting bias; and at unclear risk of bias for the other domains. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We found moderate‐quality evidence showing that topiramate is no more or less effective than placebo when used alone, and low‐quality evidence that topiramate is no more or less effective than placebo when added to other drugs in the treatment of manic and mixed episodes. We found high‐quality evidence that lithium is more effective than topiramate when used alone in the treatment of manic and mixed episodes. Low‐ and very low‐quality evidence showed no difference in side effect profiles when topiramate was compared with placebo or alternative drugs when used alone or in combination with other treatments. 
Limitations of the review were that the quality of the evidence was generally low, therefore there is a need for further research. Future research could involve more controlled studies with clearly detailed methods comparing topiramate with placebo and alternative or combination bipolar treatments for manic, mixed, and depressive episodes. 
