Lumbar sympathectomy versus prostanoids for critical limb ischaemia due to non‐reconstructable peripheral arterial disease 
Background 
People with peripheral arterial disease (PAD) have narrowed arteries which means it can be difficult to get sufficient blood to the extremities of the body, especially the legs. This lack of blood flow (ischaemia) over a long period can become painful. The pain usually becomes apparent only when a person has been walking a certain distance (intermittent claudication), but as the disease progresses the lack of blood flow worsens and the person may experience extreme pain while at rest (critical limb ischaemia (CLI)). Generally, if a person's blood vessels are in good enough health and the person does not suffer other illnesses that could complicate general anaesthesia, surgical repair of the arteries is considered and could help reduce ischaemic pain. However, in some people such a repair is not advised or possible, and their pain relief options are limited. Lumbar sympathectomy, which can be carried out by surgical procedure or by injection of a chemical agent, and the use of intravenous prostaglandins (lipids which aid in recovery at sites of tissue damage or infection that are injected into the vein via a syringe or catheter), can help improve blood flow and reduce pain. Both have been shown to help reduce rest pain in people who cannot have surgical repair. It is unclear at this time which of these techniques is superior for pain reduction, ulcer healing, reduction in amputation or other outcomes important to people with CLI. 
Study characteristics and key results 
For this review we only identified one study that met the inclusion criteria (current until 29 March 2017). This study randomised 200 participants (162 included in analysis) and compared surgical lumbar sympathectomy with the prostaglandin, iloprost, in people with Buerger's disease, a form of PAD, and followed participants for 24 weeks. This study found evidence of increased complete ulcer healing without rest pain or major amputation in the participants who received intravenous prostaglandin compared with those that received surgical lumbar sympathectomy. However, those who received prostaglandins were more likely to report adverse events such as headache, flushing, nausea and abdominal discomfort. There were no reported deaths in either treatment group. The single included study did not report on other planned outcomes for this review such as walking distances and quality of life or functional status. The single study was limited to the specific form of PAD known as Buerger's disease, and to surgical lumbar sympathectomy, making it difficult to generalise the findings to all types of PAD and all methods of lumbar sympathectomy. 
