Oral heath advice (education and training) for people with serious mental illness
Is providing advice about oral health to people with serious mental illness effective?
Background 
People with mental health problems have an increased likelihood of oral disease (affecting the teeth, mouth, and gums) and can require more dental treatment than the general population. Oral health is currently not a priority for service users and mental health professionals, even though tooth decay, discolouration, sensitivity, and gum disease can affect such aspects of everyday life as eating, comfort, appearance, feelings of being accepted by others, and self esteem. While unlikely in itself to be fatal, poor dental health can contribute to other physical health problems such as heart disease. Some medications used to treat serious mental illness can cause side effects that lead to oral disease. 
Oral health advice from a healthcare professional may encourage people with mental health problems to brush their teeth more regularly, have regular check‐ups with their dentist, and seek dental care if suffering from painful tooth decay, increased sensitivity, or gum disease. Advice may include information or counsel that enables the individual to think about and be aware of their dental health. It should educate and inform, aim at preventing problems, and empower people to take better care of their mouth and teeth. 
Study characteristics 
We ran an electronic search in November 2015 for trials that randomised people with serious mental illness to receive either oral health advice, monitoring, or standard care. Three studies meeting the required standards were found and are included in this review. 
Key results 
The data available in the included trials suggests that participants receiving oral health education had statistically better plaque index scores than those not receiving oral heath education, but what this actually means clinically is unclear. The trials provided no information about such important issues as number of visits made to dentists or how many times teeth were brushed each day and if there were any potential adverse effects of oral health education. The review authors suggest that although there is currently no real evidence available from trials, it would make sense to follow the guidelines and recommendations put forward by the British Society for Disability and Oral Health working group regarding oral health care for people with mental health problems. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence in the small number of trials available was low to moderate. There is currently a lack of good‐quality evidence available from trials to aid in decision‐making about the overall effectiveness of oral health advice for people with serious mental illness. More good‐quality trials are required to gather better and more concrete evidence. 
