Corticosteroid injections for treatment of sciatica
What is sciatica? 
Lumbosacral radicular pain, often referred to as sciatica, is a type of pain that arises from irritation or inflammation of a low back spinal nerve. People typically experience pain radiating down the leg, sometimes with altered sensation and weakness of leg muscles. In this plain language summary, the term 'sciatica' will be used to describe lumbosacral radicular pain. 
How injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids directly into the spinal region might work 
To relieve the sciatica symptoms, some practitioners treat their patients with an injection of a corticosteroid (anti‐inflammatory medicine) directly into the spinal region. The injections are believed to work by reducing inflammation around the spinal nerve.  What was the aim of this review? 
We aimed to investigate whether injections of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine are effective and safe compared to placebo injection (that is, injection of an inert (i.e. inactive) or innocuous substance (e.g. salt water)) in people with sciatica. 
Search dates 
This review includes all eligible studies up to 25 September 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included 25 clinical trials (reported in 29 publications) enrolling a total of 2470 people with sciatica comparing injection of anti‐inflammatory steroids into the lower spine to placebo injection. We identified one ongoing trial in a registry of trial protocols. Most studies included participants with sciatica detected through clinical findings and most studies included participants with mixed duration of symptoms. The included studies were carried out mainly in North America and Europe. Fifteen studies did not report any information related to funding, five studies reported not receiving any funding for conducting the study, and five studies reported receiving funding from a non‐profit source (e.g. research institute, university) or from government sources. Eight trials reported data on leg pain, 12 trials reported data on disability, and eight studies reported data on adverse events. The duration of the follow‐up assessments ranged from 12 hours to 1 year. We considered only eight trials to be at low risk of bias. 
