Do pharmacological and non‐pharmacological strategies reduce weight in obese women with subfertility? 
To assess the effectiveness and safety of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological strategies compared with each other, placebo, or no treatment for weight reduction in obese women with subfertility. 
Background 
To prevent the adverse effects of obesity, weight loss is recommended as the first line of treatment for obese women seeking pregnancy. The effectiveness of pharmacological and non‐pharmacological interventions for obese women with subfertility is unclear. 
Study characteristics 
We found 10 randomised trials comparing pharmacological and non‐pharmacological strategies in 1490 obese women with subfertility. 
Key results 
Lack of data is a major concern in interpretation of these data. Only 10 studies were included in the analysis. Three studies compared non‐pharmacological intervention versus no intervention or placebo. We are uncertain whether diet versus no intervention improves live birth, ongoing pregnancy, clinical pregnancy, or adverse events. A diet or lifestyle intervention may result in body mass index (BMI) weight change. Evidence was insufficient to show a difference in waist‐to‐hip ratio (WHR) with diet or lifestyle change compared to no intervention. No study reported on quality of life, or mental health outcomes for this comparison. 
One study compared non‐pharmacological interventions ‐ intensive weight loss intervention versus standard of care nutrition counselling; however due to the very low quality of evidence, we are uncertain whether intensive weight loss interventions improve live birth, clinical pregnancy, quality of life, or mental health outcomes. No study reported on adverse events, or weight changes, for this comparison. 
Three studies reported on pharmacological versus pharmacological interventions. Evidence was insufficient to show a difference in adverse events between metformin compared to metformin plus liraglutide. Evidence was insufficient to demonstrate a difference between the combination of metformin, clomiphene, and L‐carnitine versus metformin, clomiphene, and placebo for miscarriage. Evidence was insufficient to reveal a difference between the combination of metformin, clomiphene, and L‐carnitine versus metformin, clomiphene, and placebo or metformin plus liraglutide versus metformin in clinical pregnancy. Evidence was insufficient to demonstrate a difference between the combination of metformin, clomiphene, and L‐carnitine versus metformin, clomiphene, and placebo for weight change using BMI. Moreover, evidence was insufficient to reveal a difference between dexfenfluramine versus placebo or metformin plus liraglutide versus metformin for weight loss in kilograms, or per cent of total body fat. No study reported on live birth and change in quality of life or mental health outcomes for this comparison. 
