Is metformin an effective treatment for adults with type 2 diabetes?
BackgroundType 2 diabetes is a condition that causes high levels of sugar in the blood. Blood sugar levels are controlled by insulin, a hormone made by the pancreas. Insulin instructs the liver, muscles and fat cells to remove sugar from the blood and store it. When the pancreas does not make enough insulin, or the body does not respond to insulin, too much sugar stays in the blood. Many medicines for treating type 2 diabetes are available. These aim to lower the amount of sugar in the blood and reduce long‐term complications of diabetes. The first medicine that is usually prescribed to people with type 2 diabetes is metformin. Metformin works by reducing the amount of sugar that the liver releases into the blood. It also improves the way the body responds to insulin. 
We wanted to find out whether metformin is an effective treatment for type 2 diabetes, and whether it causes any unwanted effects. We also wanted to compare its effects with other antidiabetic medicines, and with diets, exercise or both. The outcomes we were specifically interested in were death, serious unwanted events, health‐related quality of life, death from cardiovascular causes, and non‐fatal complications of diabetes (for example heart attacks, strokes or kidney failure). 
What did we look for?We searched medical databases for studies that:— were randomised controlled trials: randomised controlled trials are medical studies where participants are put randomly into one of the treatment groups. This type of study provides the most reliable evidence about whether treatments make a difference;— included people aged 18 years or older, with type 2 diabetes;— compared metformin with: a placebo (fake treatment); no treatment; diet programmes to help people eat well; or another medicine that lowers blood sugar levels;— lasted at least one year. 
What did we find?We found 18 studies with multiple study arme including a total of 10,680 participants. The studies lasted between one year and approximately 11 years. They compared metformin with:— insulin injections (two studies);— other medicines that lower blood sugar levels: sulphonylureas (seven studies); thiazolidinediones (seven studies); dipeptidyl peptidase‐4 inhibitors (three studies); a glucagon‐like peptide‐1 analogue (one study); a meglitinide (one study);— no treatment (two studies). 
