CAR T‐cell therapy for people with diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma which returns after treatment or no longer responds to treatment 
Background 
Diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a fast‐growing cancer of the lymphatic system, an important part of the immune system. It affects blood cells that produce antibodies to fight infections. 
DLBCL is potentially curable. Most people with DLBCL respond well to initial therapies such as chemotherapy. For some people, the disease becomes refractory, which means it no longer responds to treatment, or it relapses, which means it returns after treatment. As a second‐line treatment, people with DLBCL can receive chemotherapy coupled with stem‐cell transplantation, but not all people are candidates for this therapy. From those who are, around 50% experience relapse after treatment. People who relapse or are refractory to advanced lines of treatment and those who are not candidates for a stem‐cell transplant have a very poor prognosis: Only half of them survive longer than six to 12 months. 
A promising treatment for these people is 'chimeric antigen receptor' (CAR) T‐cell therapy, which utilises the body's own immune cells (T‐cells) to fight DLBCL. T‐cells are removed from the person's blood, equipped with so‐called 'chimeric antigen receptors' (CARs), that help to recognise and destroy the cancer cells, in the laboratory and then delivered back into the person's blood. 
What was our aim? 
We wanted to explore whether CAR T‐cells are an effective treatment for people with DLBCL that returns after treatment (relapses) or no longer responds to treatment (is refractory). We also wanted to explore the frequency of unwanted effects associated with CAR T‐cell therapy. 
What did we do? 
We searched for all available clinical studies on treatment with CAR T‐cells for people with relapsed or refractory DLBCL to summarise the current evidence. We also evaluated the risk of bias in included studies and rated our confidence in the evidence. 
