Screening tests for Down’s syndrome in first 24 weeks of pregnancy
Background  Down's syndrome (also known as Down's or Trisomy 21) is an incurable genetic disorder that causes significant physical and mental health problems, and disabilities. However, there is wide variation in how Down's affects people. Some individuals are severely affected whilst others have mild problems and are able to lead relatively normal lives. There is no way of predicting how badly a baby might be affected. 
Expectant parents are given the choice to be tested for Down’s during pregnancy to assist them in making decisions. If a mother is carrying a baby with Down’s, then there is the decision about whether to terminate or continue with the pregnancy. The information offers parents the opportunity to plan for life with a Down’s child. 
The most accurate tests for Down’s involve testing fluid from around the baby (amniocentesis) or tissue from the placenta (chorionic villus sampling (CVS)) for the abnormal chromosomes associated with Down’s. Both these tests involve inserting needles through the mother's abdomen and are known to increase the risk of miscarriage. Thus the tests are not suitable for offering to all pregnant women. Rather, tests that measure markers in the mother’s blood, urine or on ultrasound scans of the baby are used for screening. These screening tests are not perfect, they can miss cases of Down’s and also give a ‘high risk’ test results to a number of women whose babies are not affected by Down’s. Thus pregnancies identified as ‘high risk’ using these screening tests require further testing using amniocentesis (from 15 weeks' gestation) or CVS (from 10 + 0 to 13 + 6 weeks' gestation) to confirm a diagnosis of Down’s. 
What we did  The aim of this review was to find out which of the first trimester ultrasound screening tests, with or without first trimester serum tests done during the first 14 weeks of pregnancy are the most accurate at predicting the risk of a pregnancy being affected by Down's. We looked at 11 different ultrasound markers and 12 different serum markers that can be used alone, in ratios or in combination, taken before 14 weeks' gestation, thus creating 60 screening tests for Down’s. We found 126 studies, involving 1,604,040 fetuses (including 8454 fetuses affected by Down's syndrome). 
What we found  For the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, the evidence supports the use of first trimester ultrasound tests in combination with two serum (blood) markers ‐ especially pregnancy‐associated plasma protein A (PAPP‐A) and free beta human chorionic gonadotrophin (ßhCG) ‐ and maternal age, for Down's syndrome screening. In general, these tests are better than ultrasound markers on their own. They detect nine out of 10 pregnancies affected by Down's syndrome. Five per cent of women undertaking the test will have a high risk test result, however the majority of these pregnancies will not be affected by Down's syndrome.   Other important information to consider  The ultrasound tests themselves have no adverse effects for the woman, blood tests can cause discomfort, bruising and rarely infection. However some women who have a ‘high risk’ screening test result, and are given amniocentesis or CVS have a risk of miscarrying a baby unaffected by Down’s. Parents will need to weigh up this risk when deciding whether or not to have an amniocentesis or CVS following a ‘high risk’ screening test result. 
