Oral hygiene programmes for people with intellectual disabilities
Review question 
How effective are oral hygiene programmes for people with intellectual disabilities?
Background 
The removal of dental plaque by daily toothbrushing plays a major role in preventing tooth decay and gum disease, the two main causes of tooth loss. Toothbrushing is a skill that can be difficult for people with ID; they may require help and people who care for them may need training in how to help them. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies up to 4 February 2019. This review included 34 studies that involved 1795 people with ID and 354 carers. Nineteen studies randomly allocated participants to two or more groups (i.e. randomised controlled trials (RCTs), and 15 were non‐randomised studies (NRS). 
The studies assessed different ways to improve the oral hygiene of people with ID: special manual toothbrushes; electric toothbrushes; oral hygiene training for carers; oral hygiene training for people with ID; varying the scheduled intervals between dental visits and supervising toothbrushing; using discussion of clinical photographs as a motivator; varying how frequently the teeth of people with ID were brushed; using a plaque‐disclosing agent and using individualised oral care plans. 
The studies evaluated gingival inflammation (red and swollen gums) and plaque. Some studies evaluated carer knowledge, behaviour, attitude and self‐efficacy (belief in their competence) in terms of oral hygiene, as well as the oral hygiene behaviour and skills of people with ID. Tooth decay and quality of life were not measured. We grouped the studies according to when the outcomes were measured: short term (six weeks or less), medium term (between six weeks and 12 months) and long term (more than 12 months). 
Key results 
A special manual toothbrush (the Superbrush), used by carers, may be better at reducing levels of gingival inflammation and possibly plaque in people with ID than an ordinary manual toothbrush in the medium term, though this was not seen in the short term. 
