Comparison of two methods used in screening for colorectal cancer
Cancer in the large intestine (colon) and rectum is one of the most frequent cancers in developed countries. The disease develops from benign lesions over a time span of about 10 years. If the lesion has turned into cancer, the prognosis is far better if the disease is detected at an early stage. Screening and detection for early cancers and benign precursors may therefore reduce the number of deaths caused by this disease. Cancers and benign precursors may bleed, and the blood can be detected in the stool by specific tests, the so‐called faecal occult blood tests (FOBT). If the test is positive (that is blood is detected), the person will be offered a colonoscopy to find the source of bleeding. Unfortunately, FOBT fails to discover a considerable number of cancers and precursor lesions. Therefore, endoscopic examination of the rectum and lower large intestine (the sigmoid colon) has been advocated (called flexible sigmoidoscopy). Flexible sigmoidoscopy is performed with a flexible instrument inserted through the anus and introduced about 50 centimetres into the lower large intestine after cleansing with a small enema. This allows direct visual inspection of the interior wall of the intestine, and benign lesions and malignant tumours may be detected. Benign lesions may be removed in the same session without anaesthesia and without any discomfort for the patient, and a follow‐up colonoscopy may be offered. 
The purpose of this review was to compare the two screening methods (FOBT and flexible sigmoidoscopy) in their ability to reduce the number of deaths due to cancer in the large intestine and rectum. 
We identified four trials which compared FOBT to no screening and five trials which compared flexible sigmoidoscopy to no screening. No studies compared the two methods directly. Mortality from colorectal cancer was reduced with FOBT screening and screening with flexible sigmoidoscopy. When we compared the two methods, we could not conclude that one was better than the other. 
No complications occurred after the FOBT test itself, but 0.03% of participants suffered a major complication after follow‐up. Among more than 60,000 flexible sigmoidoscopy screening procedures and almost 6000 work‐up colonoscopies, a major complication was recorded in 0.08% of participants. These findings should be interpreted with caution as the reporting of adverse effects was incomplete. 
