Treatment for pelvic inflammatory disease
Review question 
We assessed the effectiveness and safety of different treatments for pelvic inflammatory disease (PID) that are recommended by current clinical guidelines for treatment of PID (the 2015 US Centers for Disease Control and Prevention guidelines for treatment of PID). 
Background 
PID is an infection of the upper part of the woman's reproductive system (the womb, the tubes that connect the womb and ovaries, where the egg travels along), the ovaries (which make eggs), and inside the pelvis). It is a common condition affecting women of childbearing age. Symptoms of PID range from none to severe. If effective treatment is not started promptly, the consequences can be infertility (unable to have children), pregnancies outside the womb, and chronic pelvic pain (pain in the lower tummy). There is a wide range of treatment options. The choice is based on severity of symptoms, experience of the doctor, national/international guidelines, and rate of side effects. We wanted to learn if there is a preferable antibiotic (used to treat bacterial infections) therapy with high rates of cure and few side effects to treat PID. 
Studies characteristics 
We searched the available literature up to 10 January 2020 and included 39 studies with 6894 women with an average of 14 days of treatment and follow‐up (monitoring after treatment). These trials included women of childbearing age with mild to severe PID. Trials mostly used a single or a combination of antibiotics with different administration routes: intravenous (into a blood vessel), intramuscular (into the muscle), and oral (as a tablet). In mild‐moderate cases, intramuscular and oral treatments were prescribed, and in moderate‐severe cases, treatments were usually started in hospital and were completed at home. 
Key results 
We are uncertain whether one treatment was safer or more effective than any other for the cure of PID. From a single study, at low risk of bias, the use of a macrolide probably improves the rates of cure in mild‐moderate PID.  
Apart from one high quality result in one comparison, the quality of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate, the main problems being serious risk of bias (poor reporting of study methods; doctors and women may have known which medicine was given), and results differed across studies. 
