Antipsychotics for fibromyalgia symptoms in adults
Bottom line 
Quetiapine may be considered for 4 to 12 weeks to reduce pain, sleep problems, depression and anxiety in fibromyalgia patients with major depression. Potential side effects such as weight gain should be balanced against the potential benefits. 
Background 
People with fibromyalgia often have chronic (longer than three months) widespread pain, as well as sleep problems, problems with thinking and exhaustion. They often report severe limitations of daily functioning and poor quality of life. Therapies focus on reducing key symptoms and disability, and improving health‐related quality of life. In addition, many patients with fibromyalgia suffer from depression. Medicines used to treat depression can reduce the main symptoms in some people with fibromyalgia. Quetiapine is a drug for the treatment of psychosis (an abnormal condition of the mind described as involving a loss of contact with reality), which is also licensed for the treatment of major depression in some countries. 
Study characteristics 
In May 2016, we searched for clinical trials in which antipsychotics were used to treat symptoms of fibromyalgia in adults. We found a total of four studies with 298 participants. We found three studies with 208 participants, which were eight and 12 weeks long and compared quetiapine, an antipsychotic, against a fake medication (placebo). One hundred and sixty‐six participants were diagnosed with major depression. We also found one study comprising 90 patients that compared quetiapine to an antidepressant named amitriptyline, which is frequently used in the treatment of fibromyalgia. Five people in this study were diagnosed with major depression. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Quetiapine was not better than a fake medication in achieving a pain reduction of 50% or more (very low quality evidence). Quetiapine was better than the fake medication in achieving a pain reduction of 30% or more, reducing sleep problems, and improving depressed mood and anxiety (very low quality evidence). Quetiapine was better than the fake medication in improving health‐related quality of life. Fewer participants dropped out of the trial due to lack of efficacy with quetiapine than with fake medication (very low quality evidence). There was no difference in tolerability and safety between quetiapine and a fake medication (very low quality evidence). For some people, quetiapine led to substantial weight gain and somnolence (sleepiness). 
Quetiapine and amitriptyline (an antidepressant which is frequently used to improve sleep and reduce pain in people with fibromyalgia) did not differ in the reduction of average scores for pain, fatigue, sleep problems, depression, anxiety and for limitations of health‐related quality of life. Both drugs did not differ in the proportion of patients reporting dizziness, somnolence and weight gain as a side effect (low quality evidence). Compared with amitriptyline, more people experienced side effects and left the study due to side effects with quetiapine (low quality evidence). No serious side effects with either drug were reported (low quality evidence). 
We found no relevant study with other antipsychotics than quetiapine in fibromyalgia.
