Medicines to prevent blockage of vascular access following surgery for formation of arteriovenous fistula or graft 
Background 
People with advanced kidney disease (called end‐stage renal disease) need dialysis to perform kidney functions. In haemodialysis, blood is filtered through a machine. To allow a large enough passage for blood to flow between the person and the machine, an artery and a vein can be surgically joined (to form an arteriovenous fistula) or a prosthetic arteriovenous graft (a substitute for a vein) is used to join the artery to the vein. These access points might last for years but can become blocked or infected. This review investigated if additional medical therapy can keep these dialysis access points patent (i.e. open or unblocked). 
Study characteristics and key results 
The review authors identified 13 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups; evidence current to August 2020) with 2080 participants. The trials compared antithrombotic medicines (which prevent abnormal clotting in the blood vessels; such as ticlopidine, aspirin, dipyridamole and clopidogrel) and other types of medicine used to prevent blockages in the artery and vein access points for dialysis compared to placebo (dummy treatment). The trials included people with advanced kidney disease receiving dialysis through all types of arteriovenous fistulae or arteriovenous grafts in the arms or legs, or at special sites. We excluded people receiving dialysis via the tummy (called peritoneal dialysis), or studies that compared medical therapy with no treatment. Where possible, we grouped similar studies. 
Three trials (339 participants) comparing ticlopidine (an antiplatelet treatment) with placebo showed improved patency in one month. There was insufficient evidence of an effect on blood flow from three trials comparing aspirin with placebo (175 participants) or from two trials using fish oil for 12 months (220 participants). Two trials compared clopidogrel with placebo in 959 participants and found insufficient evidence of an effect between the treatments. Single trials involving 16 to 167 participants found no effect of dipyridamole, dipyridamole plus aspirin, warfarin, sulphinpyrazone (medication that reduces the concentration of uric acid in the blood) or glyceryl trinitrate patch (topical medication that widens blood vessels) compared with placebo. The trial comparing warfarin with placebo was terminated early because of major bleeding in the warfarin group. Two studies reported on related surgical or radiological interventions and found insufficient evidence of an effect on related interventions between placebo and treatment. No studies reported the length of hospital stay. Most studies reported complications ranging from feeling sick to death. However, information was limited and varied between studies. Most were monitored for a short period so that any benefits in the longer term (more than three years) are unclear. 
