Sulpiride versus placebo for schizophrenia
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness with ‘positive symptoms’ such as hallucinations (hearing voices and seeing things) and delusions (having strange beliefs). People with schizophrenia also suffer from disorganisation and ‘negative symptoms’ (such as tiredness, apathy and loss of emotion). People with schizophrenia may find it hard to socialise and find employment. Schizophrenia is considered one of the most burdensome illnesses in the world. For some people it can be a lifelong condition.  People with schizophrenia are usually treated with antipsychotic drugs. More recently developed antipsychotic drugs (second generation or atypical) are more expensive and thought to have fewer side effects than the older ones (first generation or typical). These side effects can include distressing movement disorders; as a results, many people find the older drugs difficult to tolerate and prefer the second generation drugs. However, in many developing countries the cost of medication can be a major factor in prescribing, so the first generation drugs are the most widely used. 
Sulpiride is a first generation antipsychotic drug, but is said to cause fewer side effects. It has been suggested that sulpiride may be more effective than other older drugs (such as chlorpromazine and haloperidol) for treating the negative symptoms and social withdrawal of schizophrenia. 
The aim of this review was to evaluate the effects of sulpiride for schizophrenia compared to placebo (‘dummy’ treatment). Two short‐term (12 weeks) studies with a total of 113 people are included. Information was limited and poorly reported. The inclusion of two small studies with small sample sizes meant that resulting data were not overly robust or meaningful. Overall no clear difference was noted between those receiving sulpiride and those receiving placebo for mental state or for leaving the study early. There was no information on other important outcomes, including: general functioning, service use, hospital admission, employment, family burden, satisfaction with care and side effects. The use of sulpiride seems to be based on clinical experience rather than strong evidence. Its widespread use in developing countries might have more to do with its lower cost than its effectiveness. Longer, well‐planned, better conducted and reported randomised control trials would contribute to our knowledge about the effectiveness and potential side effects of this drug. 
