Is it better to add long‐acting muscarinic antagonists or long‐acting beta2‐agonists to inhaled corticosteroids for people with uncontrolled asthma? 
Main point 
Differences between long‐acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA) and long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABA) are mostly small or uncertain, based on studies less than six months in duration. The current evidence is not strong enough to support using LAMA instead of LABA for people whose asthma is not controlled on inhaled corticosteroids. 
Why is the question important? 
People who have asthma that is not well controlled often have attacks that require extra treatment and time in hospital. 
LABA are inhaled drugs that can improve symptoms and reduce the likelihood of asthma attacks when inhaled corticosteroids are not helpful alone, but they can have serious side effects. LAMA, another type of inhaled drug that is already used for other lung diseases, are a possible new treatment option for this group of people with asthma. 
How did we answer the question? 
We looked for randomised controlled studies (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) that compared LAMA with LABA, both on top of inhaled corticosteroids, for at least 12 weeks. Two people looked through all of the possible published and unpublished studies that we found from several databases and websites, to find a list of studies that looked at the question we were interested in. The most recent searches were done in April 2015. 
What did we find out? 
We could not tell whether people taking LAMA were more or less likely to need oral corticosteroids for an asthma attack than people taking LABA because not many people needed them and the studies showed different results; overall three more people in 1000 might have an asthma attack on LAMA, but the real result could be anywhere between 29 fewer and 61 more than if you took a LABA. Similarly, too few people in the studies had serious side effects or asthma attacks that required urgent medical treatment to judge whether one treatment was better than the other. 
The studies showed that LAMAs might be a bit better than LABA for lung function (how well your lungs work), and LABAs slightly better for quality of life, but the differences were small and we could not tell if one was better than the other for most outcomes. 
The results were mostly based on four good studies of around 2000 people, which were between 14 and 24 weeks of duration. All of the studies looked at a LAMA drug called tiotropium. 
