Imaging tests for the non‐invasive diagnosis of endometriosis
Review question 
How accurate are imaging tests in detecting endometriosis? Can any imaging test be accurate enough to replace or reduce the need for surgery in the diagnosis of endometriosis? 
Background 
Women with endometriosis have endometrial tissue (the tissue that lines the womb and is shed during menstruation) growing outside the womb within the pelvis, causing chronic abdominal pain and difficulty conceiving. Currently, the only reliable way of diagnosing endometriosis is to perform laparoscopic surgery and visualise the endometrial deposits inside the abdomen. Because surgery is risky and expensive, imaging tests have been assessed for their ability to detect endometriosis non‐invasively. An accurate imaging test could lead to the diagnosis of endometriosis without the need for surgery, or it could reduce the need for surgery, so only women who were most likely to have endometriosis would require it. Furthermore, if imaging tests could accurately predict the location of endometriotic lesions, surgeons would have the information they need to plan and improve their surgical approach. Other non‐invasive ways of diagnosing endometriosis by using urine, blood and endometrial and combination tests have been evaluated in separate Cochrane reviews from this series. 
Study characteristics 
Evidence included in this review is current to April 2015. We included 49 studies involving 4807 participants. Thirteen studies evaluated pelvic endometriosis, 10 studies ovarian endometrioma, 15 studies deep endometriosis (endometriosis deeply situated in tissues in the pelvis) and 33 studies endometriosis at specific sites within the pelvic cavity. All studies included women of reproductive age who were undergoing diagnostic surgery because they had symptoms of endometriosis. 
Key results 
None of the imaging methods was accurate enough to provide this information on overall pelvic endometriosis. Transvaginal ultrasound identified ovarian endometriosis with enough accuracy to help surgeons determine whether surgery was needed, and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was sufficiently accurate to replace surgery in diagnosing endometrioma but was evaluated in only a small number of studies. Other imaging tests were assessed in small individual studies and could not be evaluated in a meaningful way. Transvaginal ultrasound could be used to locate more anatomical sites of deep endometriosis when compared with MRI, helping surgeons better plan an operative procedure. Endometriosis in the lower bowel appears to be relatively accurately identified by both transvaginal and transrectal ultrasound, by MRI and by multi‐detector computerised tomography enema. New types of ultrasound and MRI show a lot of promise in detecting endometriosis but studies are too few to clearly show their diagnostic value. 
