Blood tests in late pregnancy to identify small babies and those at risk of stillbirth
Background 
Placental dysfunction describes when the placenta does not meet the demands of the growing baby; it may result in a baby that is smaller than expected or is stillborn. Currently, it is not easy to detect placental dysfunction before birth; ultrasound scans are most often used to identify small babies. However, tests can measure substances made by the placenta in mothers’ blood and urine which may detect a placenta that is not functioning well. We aimed to find the best test to identify placental dysfunction. 
What we did 
We searched for studies in October 2016 and identified and total of 24,059 studies ‐ with 91 of those studies providing us with information that we could include in this review. We looked at ultrasound scanning and six different tests of placental substances, including proteins and hormones. These studies involved 175,426 women in total of which 15,471 pregnancies ended in the birth of a small baby and 740 pregnancies which ended in stillbirth. 
What we found 
Of the 91 included studies, 86 had information on small babies, of which 18 also looked at stillbirth; another five studies only looked at stillbirth. The most accurate test for detecting a small baby was ultrasound scan to estimate a baby’s weight. Of the substances measured in mother’s blood, human placental lactogen (hPL), a hormone produced by the placenta during pregnancy, was the most accurate. There was only one study which looked at both ultrasound scanning and measurement of a placental substance. Placental growth factor (PlGF) was the most accurate test of a placental substance to identify a baby that would be stillborn; there were no studies of ultrasound scanning to detect a baby that would be stillborn. Tests of placental substances were better at identifying a baby at risk of stillbirth than detecting a small baby. 
Other important information to consider 
Many of the studies included in this review were carried out between 1974 and 2016. Studies of placental substances were mostly carried out before 1991 and after 2013; earlier studies may not reflect developments in test technology. More studies are needed to find out whether a combination of ultrasound scans and mother’s blood tests could improve identification of pregnancies which end in the birth of a small baby or in a stillborn baby. No studies were identified for this review that looked at the accuracy of ultrasound and blood tests used together. 
