Different magnesium sulphate regimens given to mothers to prevent preterm labour
Babies born early ‐ before 37 weeks' estimated gestation ‐ are at an increased risk of dying or being seriously unwell, especially if they are born very early. Various drugs have been given to women to try and stop babies being born too soon. Magnesium sulphate has been one of the drugs used when women go into labour too early. 
Although it has now been shown that magnesium sulphate does not help prevent babies being born too soon, it is important to know the safest and best way to give magnesium sulphate if it is used for mothers in preterm labour. Particular concerns about high doses of magnesium sulphate for women in preterm labour, including increased risk of deaths of babies, have been raised. (Magnesium sulphate has been shown to help prevent and treat eclampsia in women with high blood pressure during pregnancy, and in mothers at risk of preterm birth, low doses can protect the baby's brain and improve long‐term outcomes for the infant. These uses are covered in other Cochrane reviews.) 
This review identified three trials (involving 360 women and their infants), but one trial did not provide any relevant data. The trials were small and were assessed as being at a low or unclear risk of bias. The trials did not report many outcomes of relevance to this review. We did find limited evidence to suggest that when magnesium sulphate was given to mothers in preterm labour, differences in the dose (high‐dose versus low‐dose) did not impact on the number of babies that died (very low quality evidence). There were no data to assess other important outcomes: birth less than 48 hours after entry to the trial, or serious outcomes for mothers or their babies. 
The included trials provided very few data for other outcomes relevant to this review (overall, we were only able to examine eight of the 45 outcomes we wanted to examine). 
One trial did find that the rate of newborn respiratory distress syndrome (low quality evidence) and the length of stay in the neonatal intensive care unit were reduced with high‐dose magnesium sulphate (compared to the babies born to the group of women who were given low‐dose magnesium sulphate). However, this result is based on evidence from one small study and should therefore be interpreted with caution. 
The rate of caesarean birth did not differ between those women given high‐dose and those women given low‐dose magnesium sulphate. Nor were there any differences between groups in terms of the number of babies that died before birth or during the subsequent month or the number of babies with low levels of calcium in their blood, low bone density or bone fractures. The frequency of self‐reported adverse effects in mothers including flushing, headache (two trials, 248 women), or nausea and vomiting (one trial, 100 women) did not differ between high‐dose and low‐dose magnesium sulphate groups. Pulmonary oedema was reported in two mothers given high‐dose magnesium sulphate, and in none of the mothers given low‐dose magnesium sulphate. 
