Interventions to improve psychosocial well‐being in women with a BRCA mutation following risk‐reducing surgery 
Background Women who test positive for a fault (mutation) on one of the BRCA genes (BRCA1 DNA repair associated or BRCA2 DNA repair associated (BRCA1 or BRCA2)) are more at risk of developing breast and tubo‐ovarian cancer (cancer of the fallopian tubes or ovaries). A significant number of female BRCA carriers will choose to have surgery to remove their breast tissue and fallopian tubes and ovaries in order to reduce their risk of developing breast cancer and tubo‐ovarian cancer. This type of surgery can be life‐changing, and women may experience negative physical and emotional changes as a result. These changes can affect the function and appearance of their bodies, which in turn can have a negative psychological effect on women and their relationships. 
Review question The aim of this review was to learn if interventions can help with the social and psychological effects of physical and emotional changes in women who have had risk‐reducing surgery. 
Main findings We found two studies that examined a psychosocial intervention for women who had undergone removal of their fallopian tubes and ovaries to reduce their risk of tubo‐ovarian cancer. 
One randomised controlled trial (a study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) assessed a mindfulness‐based stress reduction training programme for menopausal symptoms after risk‐reducing surgery. Whilst there was improvement in the menopause‐specific quality of life scores in the short and the long term for women with menopausal symptoms, the intervention was not associated an with improvement in sexual functioning or distress. 
Women who participated in a non‐randomised study all received the study intervention and scored themselves on certain items related to psychosexual functioning and psychological adjustment before and after the intervention (targeted sexual‐health education, body awareness and relaxation training, and mindfulness‐based cognitive therapy strategies). They also received a group psychoeducation session and telephone counselling. The outcomes were based on the differences between the before and after scores. All women recruited to the study were at risk of tubo‐ovarian cancer based on having a harmful or faulty BRCA gene, but there was no personal history of tubo‐ovarian cancer in the group studied. 
No studies reported on social and psychological interventions following risk‐reducing surgery to have breast tissue removed in BRCA carriers. 
Quality of the evidence The certainty (quality) of the evidence ranged from moderate to very low, with only one randomised controlled trial and one non‐randomised study that had no comparator included in the review. Both studies involved small numbers of women. 
