Surgical versus endoscopic treatment of bile duct stones
Background  Gallstones are a common problem in the general population and commonly cause problems with pain (biliary colic) and gallbladder infections (acute cholecystitis). Gallstones can sometimes migrate out of the gallbladder and become trapped in the tube between the gallbladder and the small bowel (common bile duct). Here, they obstruct the flow of bile from the liver and gallbladder into the small bowel and cause pain, jaundice (yellowish discolouration of the eyes, dark urine, and pale stools), and sometimes severe infections of the bile (cholangitis). Between 10% and 18% of people undergoing cholecystectomy for gallstones have common bile duct stones. 
Treatment involves removal of the gallbladder as well as the gallstones from this tube. There are several methods to achieve this. Surgery is performed to remove the gallbladder. In the past, this was performed through a single large incision through the abdomen (open cholecystectomy). Newer keyhole techniques (laparoscopic surgery) are now the most common methods of removal of the gallbladder. Removal of the trapped gallstones in the common bile duct can be performed at the same time as the open or keyhole surgery. Alternatively, an endoscope (a narrow flexible tube equipped with a camera) is inserted through the mouth and into the small bowel to allow removal of the trapped gallstones from the common bile duct. This procedure can be performed before, during, and after the surgery to remove the gallbladder. This systematic review attempts to answer the question of the safest and most effective method to remove these trapped gallstones (in terms of open surgery or laparoscopic surgery compared with endoscopic removal), whether removal of the common bile duct stones should be performed during surgery to remove the gallbladder as a single‐stage treatment or as a separate treatment before or after surgery (two‐stage treatment). 
Review questions  We analysed results from randomised clinical trials in the literature to assess the benefits and harms of these procedures 
