Treatments to stimulate eye co‐operation versus standard patching or blurring treatment for amblyopia (lazy eye) in children aged three to eight years 
Review questionBinocular versus standard occlusion or blurring treatment for unilateral amblyopia in children aged three to eight years. 
BackgroundAt present, amblyopia (lazy eye) in children is treated with glasses, followed by either patching or blurring of the better‐seeing eye with atropine eyedrops. These treatments are not popular with children, and the amount of patching or eye drops that parents and carers can apply is often less than what was prescribed. Less than two‐thirds of children develop normal vision in the lazy eye, and three‐dimensional vision may remain limited in some cases. A new type of binocular treatment (with both eyes open) that matches the visual information shown to the better eye to the level of vision in the lazy eye may yield better results. Children may find this approach easier to tolerate, as during treatment they play computer games or watch movies through special lenses or on modified computers. 
What did we want to find out?We wanted to find out if binocular treatments were better than conventional patching or pharmacological blurring treatment in getting better visual outcomes in children, aged three to eight years, with unilateral amblyopia. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that examined this new treatment, compared with standard patching or eye‐drop blurring treatment, in children aged three to eight years with lazy eye. We searched all standard sources of information. Two review authors independently reviewed the results of this search. We planned to include only studies reporting results from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) ‐ studies comparing the new treatment with a standard treatment, and where children were assigned treatment groups at random (like flipping a coin).  
What did we find?We identified one RCT that met these criteria. The study recruited 385 children of which a subset were analysed; 36 were randomised to a binocular iPad game and 32 children were randomised to conventional patching treatment. The study found, on average that vision improves with both patching and the new computer treatment after 16 weeks, with little‐to‐no difference in the amount of improvement with either approach, though there were some limitations with the study. 
We conclude that more research is needed to allow decisions about the new treatment. We recommend that future research be done in the form of RCTs, and that researchers use acknowledged tests of visual acuity (fine detail) and three‐dimensional vision to report the results. It will also be important to publish observations reported by children and families, how much the treatment was used, and if and when the vision in the lazy eye got worse after the treatment was stopped. 
How up to date is this evidence?This review updates our previous review. The evidence is up to date to November 2020. 
