Surgical techniques for preventing and treating arm swelling from lymphoedema after breast cancer treatment 
What is the issue? 
Many women in the world are affected by breast cancer. Radiotherapy and surgery used for breast cancer treatments target the breast, chest and axilla (or armpit) of the affected side and could damage the local lymphatics of those regions. This results in poor drainage of fluid from the affected arm, which could lead to a sensation of heaviness and visible swelling. A term used to describe this condition is lymphoedema. Lymphoedema is well‐recognised by patients and health care professionals. It is uncomfortable and could interfere with many aspects of daily life. In addition, some patients regard their one‐sided arm swelling as unsightly. Long‐term swelling could also degrade the quality of the skin and lead to recurrent skin infections. Traditional measures to manage this troublesome condition include arm exercises, massage, and compression stockings. While these measures are effective in reducing the arm swelling, they require time, patience, and daily dedication on the patient's part, and can come at a cost to the patient. These traditional measures need to be continued lifelong in order to remain effective. 
Study question 
Health care professionals have examined alternative ways to manage lymphoedema after breast cancer treatment. This report reviews the effectiveness of surgical techniques that have been developed to either prevent or treat this condition. 
Study results 
A number of techniques have been proposed, but only three studies published by November 2017 met the inclusion criteria for our present review. Two studies looked at preventing lymphoedema and one study looked at treating lymphoedema. In total, these three studies involved 131 individuals. 
Two studies focused on the surgical technique of lymphaticovenular anastomosis (a preventive procedure), which joins lymphatic vessels to blood vessels and utilises the circulatory system to drain the excess fluid from the arm. They showed that individuals who undergo this surgical procedure have a reduced risk of developing lymphoedema (255 fewer cases of developing lymphoedema per 1000 women, where the true value may be somewhere between 118 fewer to 300 fewer cases developing lymphoedema per 1000 women) compared to those who do not. These two studies did not provide data for important secondary outcomes such as patient‐reported outcomes, ability to discontinue further interventions for lymphoedema, surgical complications, or long‐term complications. 
One study evaluated a vascularised lymph node transfer technique which transferred a piece of tissue containing lymph nodes from the groin or abdomen to the armpit of the limb affected by lymphoedema. The authors observed that those who underwent this procedure experienced reductions in: 
‐ limb volume: on average, women who underwent the procedure had 39% reduction in limb volume compared to those who had standard care alone; ‐ pain: on average, women who had the procedure scored 4.16 points lower on a 10‐point scale (i.e. 1 = no pain, 10 = extreme pain) than those who had standard care alone; ‐ heaviness sensation: on average, women who had the procedure scored 4.27 points lower on a 10‐point sensation heaviness scale (i.e. 1 = no heaviness sensation, 10 = extreme heaviness sensation) compared to those who had standard care alone; and ‐ infection: on average, women who had the procedure had 1.22 fewer infections per year compared to those who had standard care alone. 
The vascularised lymph node transfer technique also provided a gain in functional improvement meaning that, on average, women who underwent the procedure scored 3.77 points better on the overall function score (function measured on a 10 point scale where 1 = excellent function, 10 = very poor function) compared to those who had standard care alone. The study did not provide data for some important secondary outcomes such as the ability to discontinue further interventions for lymphoedema or long‐term complications. 
