Acupuncture for chronic hepatitis B
Review question To assess the benefits and harms of acupuncture versus no intervention or sham acupuncture (not real acupuncture) in people with chronic hepatitis B. 
Background Chronic hepatitis B infection has a substantial economic, psychological, and life impact on people with chronic hepatitis B and their families. Acupuncture has been used in treating people with chronic hepatitis B, as it is believed that it decreases discomfort and improves immune function in people with this disease. However, the benefits and harms of acupuncture have never been established in systematic reviews in a rigorous way. 
Search date The review includes trials published by 1 March 2019. 
Study characteristics We included eight randomised clinical trials with 555 participants. All trials compared acupuncture versus no intervention. Seven trials included participants with chronic hepatitis B. One trial included chronic hepatitis B participants with tuberculosis and ascites. These trials assessed heterogeneous acupuncture interventions (i.e. manual needle acupuncture, acupoint herbal patching, acupoint injection, and moxibustion). Acupoint is a specifically chosen site for acupuncture manipulation. All trials used heterogeneous co‐interventions applied equally in the compared groups. 
Study funding sources Three of the eight included randomised clinical trials received academic funding. None of the remaining five trials reported information on support or funding. 
Key results 
None of the eight included trials reported data on clinically important outcomes such as all‐cause mortality, serious adverse events, health‐related quality of life, hepatitis B‐related mortality, or hepatitis B‐related morbidity. We are uncertain whether acupuncture compared with no intervention has a beneficial or harmful effect regarding adverse events considered not to be serious. Acupuncture compared with no intervention seems to reduce the proportion of people with detectable hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA (a non‐validated surrogate outcome; only one trial). We are uncertain whether acupuncture compared with no intervention has an effect on the proportion of people with detectable HBeAg (a non‐validated surrogate outcome; only two trials). Caution is needed in interpreting these findings as data are provided by only one or a few trials at high risk of bias, and these surrogate outcomes have not yet been proven relevant for people with chronic hepatitis B. We are uncertain whether acupuncture compared with no intervention has an effect on the remaining separately reported adverse events considered not to be serious. We could not use data from 79 other studies, of possible interest to our review, because study authors provided highly insufficient information on their study design and methods. Accordingly, we need more information from randomised clinical trials before benefits or harms of acupuncture for chronic hepatitis B can be determined. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Certainty of evidence means 'the extent of one's confidence that review results are correct in supporting or rejecting a finding'. The certainty of evidence on the use of acupuncture in people with chronic hepatitis B virus infection in terms of its beneficial or harmful effects on death, health‐related quality of life, risk of dying due to HBV infection, and serious adverse events cannot be determined, as data on these outcomes were lacking. The certainty of evidence on acupuncture, when compared with no intervention, in terms of adverse events considered not to be serious, the proportion of people with detectable HBV DNA, and the proportion of people with detectable HBeAg, is very low. Whether the last two outcomes are relevant to the well‐being of people with chronic hepatitis B is still not scientifically proven. The very low certainty of the evidence is due to insufficient data ensuing from one, two, or very few trials with insufficient reporting. 
