Vasodilator drugs to reduce the symptoms of primary Raynaud's phenomenon
Background 
Raynaud's phenomenon (RP) is a condition affecting the small blood vessels in the extremities, usually in the fingers but also in the toes and other body parts. It is caused by temporary narrowing of the blood vessels, which leads to color changes with associated numbness, tingling, and pain. Various triggers for this condition are known, such as stress, cold, and use of vibrational hand tools. Conservative measures to control this condition include stopping smoking and maintaining both peripheral and ambient warmth. Medications that dilate the blood vessels such as calcium channel blockers (CCBs) may be used but can have side effects. This review aims to investigate the effectiveness and safety of drugs that dilate the blood vessels other than CCBs. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We found seven new studies for this update, bringing the total to 15 (search was good to November 16, 2020). This update now includes other routes of administration such as through the veins (intravenous) and the skin (topical), in contrast to previous reviews, which focused on oral forms of treatment. The studies were published between 1989 and 2013 and involved a total of 635 participants randomly assigned to receive treatment or placebo control. Many studies did not describe various aspects of study methods such as randomization, allocation concealment, and blinding. Treatment duration varied between two weeks and six months.Angiotensin‐converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors as a drug class, specifically enalapril and captopril in this review, in general increased the frequency of Raynaud's attacks per week but did not affect the severity of the attacks. Enalapril worsened subjective assessment of improvement, and captopril did not improve subjective outcomes or digital blood flow. Buflomedil showed a small reduction in the frequency and severity of attacks with increased side effects. Beraprost and dazoxiben did not demonstrate any change in frequency or severity of attacks nor in disability score and were associated with increased side effects. Ketanserin did not demonstrate improvement in frequency or duration of attacks nor in digital blood flow but did demonstrate improvement in severity scoring of RP. In a small study, moxisylyte was shown to reduce the frequency and severity of attacks to a small degree but with increased side effects. Topical glyceryl trinitrate did not show any effect on reducing the frequency of attacks per week. One study reported subjective improvement in Raynaud Condition Score (RCS). One small study reported improvements in frequency and severity of attacks as subjective changes. Headaches were the most significant and common side effect of treatment. Phosphodiesterase inhibitors did not cause a reduction in frequency, severity, or duration of attacks and did not improve RCS. One study reported in favor of vardenafil alone to reduce RCS but found that the effect is likely small. One study reported that cilostazol increased the frequency and severity of attacks; more research is needed to confirm this finding. Risk of headache as a side effect of treatment was increased with cilostazol use. PF‐00489791 at a dose of 20 mg was found to slightly improve all subjective outcome measures and RCS. 
