Drug treatments for managing cystic fibrosis‐related diabetes
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence regarding different drugs for managing cystic fibrosis‐related diabetes (CFRD). 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis (CF) is a common life‐limiting genetic condition, mainly causing damage to the lungs and pancreas. The pancreas makes insulin, a hormone which the body needs to take sugar into the cells so it can be converted into energy. In up to 90% of people with CF, problems with the pancreas and digestive enzymes mean nutrients are not properly absorbed. People with CF need high‐calorie and high‐protein diets to provide enough energy to maintain muscle mass so as to support their breathing and make up for breathing difficulties from disease‐damaged lungs. It is important for people with CF to turn sugar into energy efficiently. This is especially challenging for people with CFRD because damage to the pancreas affects insulin production and release. Inflammation seen in CF can reduce insulin production and lessen its effect by causing insulin resistance. Increased life expectancy for people with CF means that 50% of adults with CF are likely to develop CFRD. 
We wanted to assess different treatments for CFRD to limit any related decline in health. These include artificial sources of insulin (like long‐acting glargine or short‐acting protamine insulin), the control of natural hormones that stimulate insulin release and medications that enhance a person’s own insulin release or affect insulin resistance. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 10 September 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included four trials (145 adults). Two trials compared insulin to either no treatment for two months (seven participants) or to a placebo (dummy drug with no active medication) for one year (61 participants). These trials, along with a third trial lasting two years (67 adults), also compared insulin (given via a syringe) to repaglinide tablets. The fourth trial (20 participants) compared the long‐acting insulin glargine to short‐term neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin over a 12‐week period. 
Key results 
We found results for our primary outcomes of blood glucose levels, lung function and nutritional status and our secondary outcomes of pulmonary exacerbations (flare up of disease), complications and quality of life. We could only analyse limited results and did not find evidence that showed that any one treatment was better than another. Our analysis did not show that either insulin or repaglinide made any difference to any of our outcomes compared to placebo or no treatment at any time point. Similarly, most of our results did not show whether insulin or repaglinide was better, but the evidence was a little stronger that there was no difference in lung function, nutritional status or blood glucose levels at 12 months. Similarly, the evidence was not strong enough to show if there is any difference between glargine and neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin for any of our outcome measures. None of the trials reported if there were any deaths. 
