Tailored interventions based on sputum eosinophils versus clinical symptoms for asthma in children and adults 
Background 
Drug treatment for asthma is usually guided by various measures, such as asthma symptoms and lung function tests. In this review we wanted to find out if it was more beneficial to guide treatment according to sputum eosinophils. Eosinophils are a type of white blood cell that is increased in some forms of inflammation. The number of eosinophils in the sputum can tell us about levels of one type of inflammation in the lungs. We looked for evidence about whether measuring eosinophils in the sputum to guide asthma treatment improves asthma outcomes in children and adults. 
Study characteristics 
We included studies that compared adjustment of asthma medicines by counting sputum eosinophils versus usual care. To be included, the studies has to decide who would be in which group by chance. The participants all had asthma, diagnosed according to asthma guidelines. 
The most recent search for studies was undertaken in February 2017.
This updated review includes six studies involving 382 people with asthma (55 children/adolescents, 327 adults). The studies varied in several ways including study duration and follow‐up, sputum eosinophil counts used for adjusting medication and the way the asthma attacks were defined. Studies were between 6 and 24 months long. The age spread of participants in the studies was 12 to 48 years. 
Key results 
We found that guiding asthma medicines based on sputum eosinophil counts (compared to a control group) reduced the number and severity of asthma attacks in adults. In the control group where treatment was guided according to clinical symptoms, 82 participants out of 100 had at least one attack. This was reduced to 62 out of 100 in participants who had their medications guided by sputum eosinophil count. We are not certain about the effect on other measures, such as quality of life or dose of inhaled steroids needed. There is not enough data in children to assess whether using sputum eosinophil is useful. 
