Muscle stimulation for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for applying electrical stimulation to the thigh muscles of people with COPD (a long‐term lung condition characterised by cough, sputum production (fluids from the lungs, i.e. phlegm) and difficulty breathing). We looked at studies that used two groups; one receiving electrical stimulation by placing conductive pads over the muscle, the other receiving usual medical care. We also looked at studies that added electrical stimulation to an exercise programme and compared the results with a group that only undertook the exercise programme. 
The studies measured muscle strength and endurance (how long the muscle could work), muscle size, exercise capacity, shortness of breath, leg fatigue and health‐related quality of life (HRQoL; a measure of a person's satisfaction with their life and health). We also looked to see if applying electrical stimulation to the muscles in the thigh caused any unwanted effects. 
Background 
People with COPD find exercise difficult and feel breathless. But exercise such as frequent brisk walking or stationary cycling reduces breathing difficulties and improves the ability to exercise. One way that exercise helps is by improving the condition (how well they work) of the thigh muscles. 
However, for some people with COPD, exercising at a level that is high enough to improve the condition of the thigh muscles is difficult because they experience severe shortness of breath with exercise. In these people, it may be that using an electrical current to stimulate the thigh muscles will help to improve their condition. Because the electrical stimulation is applied to only a few muscles (in contrast to exercise, which involves several muscles), electrical stimulation can be completed without causing much shortness of breath. If electrical stimulation can improve the condition of the leg muscles, it might be a useful rehabilitation approach. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to March 2018.
Study characteristics 
Nineteen studies met the inclusion criteria for the review, of which 16 had data on 267 participants that could be included in the analyses. The average age of people in each of the studies ranged from 56 to 76 years and 179 (67%) were men. Seven studies explored the effect of applying electrical stimulation alone and nine studies explored the effect of adding electrical stimulation to an exercise programme. Electrical stimulation was applied in a range of settings, such as at home, in an outpatient hospital department, on a hospital ward or in an intensive care unit. Most studies stimulated the thigh muscles once or twice a day for 30 to 60 minutes on four to seven days each week for four to eight weeks. 
Key results 
Studies that explored the effect of applying electrical stimulation alone showed an increase in strength and endurance of the thigh muscles. They showed an increase in some, but not all, measures of exercise capacity and a decrease in the severity of leg fatigue after exercise. Studies that explored the effect of adding electrical stimulation to an exercise programme showed a small increase in the distance walked in six minutes. In people who were most unwell (e.g. in an intensive care unit), adding electrical stimulation to an exercise programme helped people to spend fewer days confined to bed. Electrical stimulation did not increase the risk of side effects. 
