Mechanical insufflation‐exsufflation to improve mucus clearance in people with neuromuscular disorders 
Review question 
Our aim in this review was to find out how well mechanical insufflation‐exsufflation (MI‐E) works and how safe it is to use in people with neuromuscular disorders (diseases of the peripheral nerves or muscles) who have breathing problems. 
Background 
People with neuromuscular disorders (NMDs) sometimes have weak breathing muscles. This can make it difficult for them to cough and clear mucus from the lungs well, putting them at risk of repeated chest infections and ongoing lung disease. MI‐E is one of a number of methods used to improve cough and mucus clearance. MI‐E is given through a mask, mouthpiece, or via a tracheostomy (an opening in the neck into the windpipe). MI‐E acts like a cough by first pushing air into the lungs when the person breathes in (insufflation), then sucking it out again (exsufflation). 
Methods 
We carried out a wide database search for trials of MI‐E in people with NMDs. We only included trials in which people were assigned to the treatments by chance, as these studies provide the best quality evidence. 
Results and quality of the evidence 
We found five trials, with 105 people. They all studied the immediate effects of a single treatment with MI‐E. The studies compared MI‐E to other ways of helping people cough, or normal cough without help. One trial studied MI‐E when added to other treatment. Based on three trials, MI‐E may improve the outwards flow of air during coughing compared to a normal cough without help. MI‐E was not clearly better than other methods of improving cough. None of the studies measured the outcomes that we thought were important for making decisions about the usefulness of MI‐E. For example, the studies did not report on survival, length of hospital stay, quality of life, or serious side effects. One study reported extreme tiredness as a side effect of MI‐E. There was often not enough information in the reports to tell whether the studies were well run; in some we found design problems that could have affected the results. 
The findings of this review do not give enough evidence on which to make decisions. We were unable to find any information from trials on important short‐ and long‐term effects, including side effects of MI‐E in NMDs. 
There is currently insufficient evidence for or against the use of MI‐E to help people with NMDs clear mucus from their lungs. Further studies are needed to better understand the benefits and risks of MI‐E in relation to other methods of cough assistance. 
The evidence in the review is up to date as of 7 October 2013.
