Fluoride toothpastes of different strengths for preventing tooth decay
Review question This review has been produced to assess the effects of toothpastes of different fluoride strengths on preventing tooth decay in children, adolescents and adults. 
Background Tooth decay (caries) is a widespread disease, affecting billions of people worldwide. Fluoride has long been used to prevent decay, through a variety of different methods including toothpaste, water, milk, mouthrinses, tooth gels and varnish. Regular toothbrushing is recommended to prevent decay and other oral diseases, and toothbrushing for 2 minutes twice daily with a fluoride toothpaste is generally recommended. The typical strength of regular or family toothpaste is around 1000 to 1500 parts per million (ppm) fluoride, but many other strengths are available worldwide. There is no minimum fluoride concentration, but the maximum permissible fluoride concentration for a toothpaste varies according to age and country. Higher concentrations are rarely available over the counter, and are classed as a prescription‐only medicine. Stronger fluoride toothpaste may offer greater protection against decay but also increases the risk of fluorosis (enamel defects) in developing teeth. This is an update of the Cochrane Review first published in 2010. 
Study characteristics Authors from Cochrane Oral Health carried out this review and the evidence is current up to 15 August 2018. It includes 96 studies published between 1955 and 2014: seven studies with 11,356 randomised participants reported the effects of fluoride toothpaste up to 1500 ppm on the primary teeth; one study with 2500 randomised participants reported the effects of 1450 ppm toothpaste on the primary and permanent dentition; 85 studies with 48,804 randomised participants reported the effects of toothpaste up to 2400 ppm on the permanent teeth of children up to 18 years of age; and three studies with 2675 randomised participants reported the effects of up to 1100 ppm toothpaste on the permanent teeth of adults. Most studies assessed decay after participants had been using the toothpastes for 36 months. 
Main results We present below findings for which there is moderate‐ or high‐certainty evidence. 
In primary teeth of young children, brushing teeth with a toothpaste containing 1500 ppm fluoride reduced the amount of new decay when compared with non‐fluoride toothpaste; the amount of new decay was similar with 1055 ppm compared with 550 ppm fluoride toothpaste; and there was a slight reduction in the amount of new decay with 1450 ppm toothpaste compared with 440 ppm fluoride toothpaste. 
