Child protection training for professionals to improve reporting of child abuse and neglect 
Key messages 
‐ Due to a lack of strong evidence, it is unclear whether child protection training is better than no training or alternative training (e.g. cultural sensitivity training) at improving professionals’ reporting of child abuse and neglect. 
‐ Larger, well‐designed studies are needed to assess the effects of training with a wider range of professional groups. 
‐ Future research should compare face‐to‐face with e‐learning interventions.
Why do we need to improve the reporting of child abuse and neglect? 
Child abuse and neglect results in significant harm to children, families, and communities. The most serious consequence is child fatality, but other consequences include physical injuries, mental health problems, alcohol and drug misuse, and problems at school and in employment. Many professional groups, such as teachers, nurses, doctors, and the police, are required by law or organisational policy to report known or suspected cases of child abuse and neglect to statutory child protection authorities. To prepare them for reporting, various training interventions have been developed and used. These can vary in duration, format, and delivery methods. For example, they may aim to increase knowledge and awareness of the indicators of child abuse and neglect; the nature of reporting duty and procedures; and attitudes towards reporting duty. Such training is usually undertaken postqualification as a form of continuing professional development; however, little is known about whether training works, either in improving reporting of child abuse and neglect generally, for different types of professionals, or for different types of abuse. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out:
‐ if child protection training improves professionals' reporting of child abuse and neglect; 
‐ what components of effective training help professionals to report child abuse and neglect; and 
‐ if the training causes any unwanted effects.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared:
‐ child protection training with no training or with a waitlist control (those placed on a waiting list to receive the training at a later date); and 
