Is prostate MRI, with or without MRI‐targeted biopsy, better than systematic biopsy for detecting prostate cancer in men? 
Background 
Many prostate cancers are slow growing and may not have any harmful effects during a man's lifetime. Meanwhile, clinically significant cancers can cause problems such as blockage of the urinary tract, painful bone lesions and death. The prostate‐specific antigen (PSA) test followed by tissue samples of the prostate with ultrasound guidance is often used to detect these cancers early. More recently, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) has also been used to help make the diagnosis. 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to compare MRI alone, MRI together with a biopsy, and a pathway that uses MRI to help decide whether to do a biopsy or not (hereinafter named ‘the MRI pathway’) with the standard ultrasound guided biopsy (hereinafter called ‘systematic biopsy’) in reference to template‐guided biopsy. 
What are the main results? 
We examined evidence up to July 2018. The review included 43 studies, mainly from Western countries, of men aged 61 to 73 years. 
In a population of 1000 men at risk for prostate cancer, where 300 men actually have clinically significant prostate cancer, MRI will correctly identify 273 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer but miss the remaining 27 men; for the 700 men that do not have clinically significant prostate cancer, MRI will correctly identify 259 as not having prostate cancer but will misclassify 441 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer. 
In the same population, MRI‐targeted biopsy will correctly identify 240 of 300 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer but miss the remaining 60 men; for the 700 men that do not have clinically significant prostate cancer, MRI will correctly identify 658 as not having prostate cancer but misclassify 42 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer. 
The MRI pathway will correctly identify 216 of 300 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer but miss the remaining 84 men; for the 700 men that do not have clinically significant prostate cancer, MRI pathway will correctly identify 672 as not having prostate cancer but will misclassify 28 men as having clinically significant prostate cancer. 
