A comparison of volume‐targeted ventilation modes with traditional pressure‐limited ventilation modes for newborn babies 
Review question: Does ventilator therapy of infants using a strategy targeting inflation volume rather than inflation pressure lead to lower rates of death or lung damage (or both) among these infants? 
Background: Preterm babies may need help to breathe. The risk of lung problems increases with increasing immaturity (the earlier the babies are born). For some babies, the assistance of a ventilator (breathing machine) can be life saving; however, ventilators may also injure the infant's immature lungs. Traditionally, ventilators for infants have been used in a pressure‐limited mode of ventilation, where the pressure leads to variable amount of air entering the lungs. New volume‐targeted methods of ventilation have been developed which aim to reduce lung injury by controlling the amount of air entering the lungs with each inflation. 
Study characteristics: In a search updated to January 2017, review authors identified 20 studies for inclusion in the review. Sixteen studies (977 infants) compared two separate groups of infants treated with a volume‐targeted mode of ventilation compared with a pressure‐limited mode of ventilation. In four studies (84 infants), the infants were treated with both modes of ventilation in a cross‐over design (where infants had ventilation with one method and were then swapped over to the second method). Most of the studies were of moderate to low quality and none of them were blinded to those who assessed therapy. The most important results from this review were based on data from eight to 12 studies including 584 to 771 infants. 
Key results: Babies ventilated using volume‐targeted modes of ventilation were more likely to survive free of lung damage. They needed ventilator assistance for a shorter duration and were less likely to develop pneumothorax (a condition when air escapes from the lung into the chest). They had more stable carbon dioxide levels in the blood, and had fewer brain ultrasound abnormalities. There was no evidence that volume‐targeted modes were more likely to harm the infant than traditional pressure‐limited modes. More research is needed to understand whether volume‐targeted modes also lead to improvements in the development of movement and intellect. More research is also needed comparing different volume‐targeting techniques. 
Quality of evidence: Low to moderate quality as none of the studies were blinded and there were issues with study design in some of the studies. 
