Intra‐aortic balloon counterpulsation in patients with acute myocardial infarction and cardiogenic shock 
Cardiogenic shock is a severe condition in which a suddenly weakened heart is not able to pump enough blood to meet the body's energy needs, so not enough oxygen will reach the body’s organs. Cardiogenic shock is a life‐threatening medical emergency and needs to be treated quickly to avoid organ damage or even death of the affected patient. Most often cardiogenic shock is caused by a severe heart attack and the induced damage to the heart muscle. Despite more than 50 years of effort, patients with cardiogenic shock still have a poor prognosis after primary revascularization procedures such as coronary artery bypass grafting or primary percutaneous coronary intervention. The main cause for the development of cardiogenic shock is the loss of myocardial function due to myocardial infarction leading to impaired left ventricular function with unstable haemodynamics and reduced systolic and mean arterial pressures. The reduced blood pressure leads to hypoperfusion and so reduced oxygen supply to vital organs and the corresponding clinical signs. These include cold and pale skin, reduced or a lack of urine output and signs of impaired cerebral function like dizziness or even unconsciousness. 
On this basis, it was reasoned that the use of mechanical means of augmenting pressure and flow would prove effective. The very first mechanical means of assisting the circulation in such a manner was by a counter pulsation strategy using a device called the intra‐aortic balloon pump (IABP). Through balloon inflations and deflations synchronized with the natural heartbeat the IABP increases diastolic aortic pressure, which enhances diastolic blood flow to the coronary arteries and vital organs, as well as reduces systolic aortic pressure, which reduces afterload and oxygen consumption of the myocardium and increases cardiac output. This support can be provided for a few hours and, in extreme cases, for several weeks. Evidence from earlier published studies suggested that certain patients with acute myocardial infarction complicated by cardiogenic shock and treated by thrombolysis may derive benefit from a period of support with the IABP. However, nowadays the most widely recommended and preferred revascularization procedure is primary percutaneous coronary intervention. 
In contrast to the previous version of this review, this update now includes data from one large and six small randomised controlled trials. It allows more definitive conclusions about the potential beneficial or harmful clinical effects of IABP support beyond its immediate haemodynamic effects. Complications such as moderate and severe bleeding were more frequently observed in patients treated with more invasive devices than IABP. Small randomised trials suffered from inadequate power to address deaths and harmful effects of IABP and were biased by frequent cross‐over to the more aggressive strategy, early stopping of the trial, or the inclusion of patients with IABP at randomisation. It is most noteworthy that a recently conducted and published large randomised trial showed no evidence for survival benefits of IABP support in patients with infarct‐related cardiogenic shock treated by percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI). On the basis of these data, IABP support is no longer strongly recommended by the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) guidelines for treatment of patients with infarct‐related cardiogenic shock. Rather, IABP use is based on the personal experience and decision of the physician and the particular circumstances of individual patients. 
