Proteins in cerebrospinal fluids (CSF) for early prediction of developing Alzheimer’s disease or other dementia in people with mild cognitive problems 
Background 
The numbers of people with dementia and other cognitive problems are increasing globally. A diagnosis of dementia at early stage is recommended but there is no agreement on the best approach. A range of tests have been developed which healthcare professionals can use to assess people with poor memory or cognitive impairment. In this review, we have focused on the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diagnostic tests. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the accuracy of CSF tests in identifying those people presenting with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who would develop Alzheimer’s disease dementia or other forms of dementia over a period of time. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2013. We included 15 studies containing a total of 1282 participants with MCI. The majority of studies (n = 9) were published between 2010 and 2013. The remaining six studies were published between 2004 and 2009. All of the included studies were conducted in Europe. 
Study sizes varied and ranged from 15 to 231 participants.The mean (range) age of the youngest sample was 64 years (45 to 76) and the mean (standard deviation) age of the oldest sample was 73.4 (6.6) years. 
Quality of the evidence 
Our findings are based on studies with poor reporting, with a majority of studies at unclear risk of bias due to insufficient details given on how participants were selected and how the clinical diagnosis of dementia was established. According to the assessment of how the CSF tests were conducted and analysed, eight of 15 studies were of poor methodological quality. 
Key findings 
Below is a summary of key findings for the tests:
CSF t‐tau test for conversion from MCI to Alzheimer’s disease dementia 
The sensitivity values in seven individual studies ranged from 51% to 90% while the specificity values ranged from 48% to 88%. The statistical analysis of those studies showed that, at the fixed specificity of 72%, the estimated sensitivity was 77%, and, at the prevalence of 37%, the positive predictive value was 62% and the negative predictive value was 84%. Based on these results, on average 62 out of 100 people with MCI and a positive index test result would convert to Alzheimer's disease dementia but 38 would not; on average, 84 out of 100 people with MCI and with a negative index test result would not convert to Alzheimer's disease dementia, but 16 would. 
CSF p‐tau test for conversion from MCI to Alzheimer’s disease dementia 
The sensitivity values in six individual studies ranged from 40% to 100% while the specificity values ranged from 22% to 86%. The statistical analysis of those studies showed that, at the fixed specificity of 48%, the estimated sensitivity was 81%, and, at the prevalence of 37%, the positive predictive value was 48% and the negative predictive value was 81%. Based on these results, on average 48 out of 100 people with MCI and with a positive index test result would convert to Alzheimer's disease dementia, but 52 would not; on average, 81 out of 100 people with MCI with a negative index test result would not convert to Alzheimer's disease dementia, but 19 would. 
We found that the cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) diagnostic test, as a single test, lacks the accuracy to identify those people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) who would develop Alzheimer’s disease dementia or other forms of dementia over a period of time. The data suggested that a negative CSF test, in people with MCI, almost indicates the absence of Alzheimer's disease as the cause of their clinical symptoms. However, a positive CSF test does not confirm the presence of Alzheimer's disease as the aetiology (cause) of their clinical symptoms. 
There were methodological problems in the included studies that did not allow for a clear answer to the review question. The main limitations of the review were poor reporting in the included studies, lack of a widely accepted threshold of the CSF diagnostic tests in people with MCI, variability in length of follow‐up, and the marked variation in CSF tests’ accuracy between the included studies. 
