Gonadotropin‐releasing hormone analogues for women with ovarian cancer undergoing chemotherapy 
Review questionThis is the first update of a review published in the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (2011, Issue 11).Chemotherapy has improved the prognosis for people with cancer and some non‐cancerous conditions, however, this treatment, in women can be associated with ovarian function failure. A hormone called gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH), both agonists and antagonists, may make ovaries less sensitive to the effects of chemotherapy drugs. We conducted this review to establish whether GnRH analogues can prevent damage to ovaries caused by chemotherapy in premenopausal women undergoing chemotherapy treatment for cancer or other diseases. 
Study characteristicsWe searched the medical literature up to November 2018 and selected randomised controlled trials (RCTs), where women were randomly assigned to two (or more) groups, to test if GnRH analogues given before or alongside chemotherapy could prevent the damage to women's ovaries caused by chemotherapy. Included studies were funded by universities, research centres, or pharmaceutical companies. However, the trials were of low methodological quality. 
Key resultsWe included 12 RCTs involving 1369 women undergoing chemotherapy. The studies examined women given GnRH agonist plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone (Group 1) or women given GnRH agonist‐antagonist cotreatment plus chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy alone (Group 2). 
For Group 1, we found GnRH agonist had a protective effect on ovarian function, which could reduce the rate of premature ovarian failure (moderate‐certainty evidence) and increase the rate of ovulation (low‐certainty evidence). The incidence of menstruation (periods) recovery or maintenance during 12‐month follow‐up period in the GnRH agonist group was higher than that in the control group, but we observed no difference when women were followed up for more than 12 months (low‐certainty evidence). There was no difference in pregnancy rates between groups (low‐certainty evidence); however, it was not clear if the women were trying to get pregnant. There was no difference in side effects including hot flushes, vaginal dryness, headaches, and depression between groups (very low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence). 
One RCT gave limited evidence for Group 2 and showed that GnRH agonist‐antagonist cotreatment had no protective effect on the ovaries in respect of menstruation recovery or maintenance and pregnancy rate (very low‐certainty evidence). 
