Monitoring a baby's heart rate during labour with and without a computerised decision aid: a comparison of pregnancy outcomes 
When a woman goes into labour, maternity care providers may choose to monitor the baby's heart rate during the birth to ensure the baby is healthy. An abnormal heart rate is a strong indicator that the baby is stressed, for example because the baby has insufficient oxygen. If there is a problem with the baby's heart rate, care providers may wish to perform additional tests or speed up delivery to avoid major complications. A cardiotocography (CTG) machine is frequently used to monitor the heart rate, which is measured in relation to the woman's contractions during labour. The machine prints the results on a strip known as a CTG trace or they are viewed directly on a visual display unit. In some cases, however, it is difficult for maternity care providers to determine whether the CTG trace is normal or abnormal, and this can result in unnecessary intervention or a delay in providing necessary interventions. Computerised decision aids, also referred to as expert systems (ESs), have a computerised knowledge base that can be matched and may be able to guide CTG interpretation to avoid such situations. 
This review aimed to examine birth‐related outcomes among women who were monitored using continuous or intermittent CTG during labour with an ES with continuous or intermittent CTG monitoring without an ES. We did not identify any studies comparing CTG monitoring during labour with an ES versus intermittent auscultation. 
However, we did identify two randomised controlled trials looking at birth‐related outcomes among women who were monitored using a CTG with an ES compared to women who were monitored using CTG without an ES. Although the review identified two eligible randomised controlled trials that were at a low risk of bias, only one trial (involving 220 women) examined the outcomes of interest in this review. Data relating to death of the baby within the first 28 days of life (early neonatal death) was unavailable but the study reported that none of the babies died before being born (fetal deaths). 
