Growth hormone for in vitro fertilisation (IVF)
Review question 
Cochrane researchers reviewed the evidence about giving growth hormone as an additional treatment to women undergoing IVF compared to not giving this treatment to such women. 
Background 
During an IVF cycle, women need to be given gonadotrophin therapy to stimulate ovaries to produce eggs. Theoretically, the use of growth hormone as an added treatment may enhance the response of gonadotrophin therapy. We assessed the benefits and risks of using growth hormone compared with no growth hormone treatment in women undergoing IVF. 'Poor responders' in IVF treatment are usually older women with low ovarian reserve or women who had previous IVF treatment with less than five eggs collected despite a maximum dose of stimulation medication. Younger women with good ovarian reserve and good ovarian response (> 5 eggs collected) after ovarian stimulation are considered normal responders. 
Study characteristics 
We found 16 randomised controlled trials with 1352 women. This type of trial randomly assigns people into two groups. In this case, one group received IVF plus growth hormone and the other group received IVF only. The evidence is current to 11 November 2020. 
Key results 
In normal responders, with adjuvant GH use, the effect on live birth rate is very uncertain; if the chance of live birth without growth hormone is assumed to be 15%, the chance of live birth with growth hormone would be between 6% and 43%. There was not enough evidence to reach a conclusion regarding clinical pregnancy rates, number of women with at least one egg retrieved, embryo transfer achieved, and number of eggs retrieved in normal responders. The evidence is also very uncertain about the effect of growth hormone on mean units of gonadotropin used in normal responders. 
The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of growth hormone on live birth rate for poor responders, based on eight trials. If the chance of live birth without growth hormone is assumed to be 11%, the chance of live birth with growth hormone would be between 13% and 25%. Growth hormone results in a slight increase in pregnancy rates in poor responders, based on 11 trials with low‐certainty evidence. The results suggest, if the pregnancy rate without growth hormone is assumed to be 15%, with growth hormone use, the pregnancy rate in poor responders would be between 19% and 31%. The evidence suggests that growth hormone results in little to no difference in the number of women with at least one oocyte retrieved, based on two trials with low‐certainty evidence. If the chance of retrieving at least 1 egg in poor responders was 81%, with growth hormone the chance is between 87% and 99%. There is a slight increase in the mean number of oocytes retrieved with the use of growth hormone for poor responders, based on 12 trials with low‐certainty evidence. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of growth hormone on embryo transfer achieved, based on four trials. If the chance of achieving embryo transfer is assumed to be 77%, the chance with use of growth hormone will be between 78% and 94%. Use of growth hormone results in reduction of mean units of gonadotropins used for stimulation in poor responders, based on eight trials with low‐certainty evidence. 
High heterogeneity in the analyses for the mean number of oocytes retrieved and the mean units of GH used suggests quite different effects according to differences including in trial protocols (populations, GH dose and schedule), so these results should be interpreted with caution. 
We are uncertain of the effect of growth hormone on adverse events in normal or poor responders as 6 of the 16 included trials failed to report this outcome. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence was of low to very low certainty, with the main limitations being poor reporting of study methods, imprecise data and variability among the trials. 
