Speech and language therapy for chronic cough
Background to the question 
People normally cough to protect and clear the airways. For example, when we have a chest infection, we cough to eject bacteria. Or when we breathe in dust, we cough to eject the dust. Some people have chronic, or long‐term cough, due to a disease such as asthma, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), or gastro‐oesophageal reflux disease. However, some people have chronic cough for no obvious reason. This is known as unexplained (idiopathic/refractory) chronic cough (UCC). Coughing over months and years is unpleasant, causing a reduction in quality of life. 
Current guidelines recommend the use of gabapentin (a drug usually used to control seizures and reduce nerve pain) to try to stop people with UCC from coughing. However, this drug has side effects including drowsiness. 
Speech and language therapy (SLT) has been suggested as a non‐drug‐based option for managing UCC. Speech and language therapy would avoid the risks and side effects of medication. 
Speech and language therapy aims to teach people to control their cough. The person is taught methods to help them suppress the urge to cough. Education is given with the intention to help people understand how the technique works and hopefully get them to stick with it. People also receive vocal hygiene information. Vocal hygiene involves techniques to reduce the trigger to cough. For example, vocal hygiene may involve helping someone breathe through their nose rather than their mouth and avoiding drinking alcohol and caffeine, which can worsen cough. They may also be given psychoeducational counselling to help them learn they have the means to control their cough. 
This review assessed the latest evidence regarding the effectiveness of SLT in the management of UCC. 
Study characteristics 
We found two relevant studies to include in the review. Both studies were randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) in which participants had a diagnosis of UCC. Participants received either an intervention including SLT techniques or 'healthy lifestyle advice' as a control group. We chose to use health‐related quality of life and serious adverse events to judge whether SLT is a useful intervention. 
Main results 
Only one of the studies comparing SLT to usual care reported data about quality of life (using a questionnaire). After four weeks, participants in the study who were receiving the SLT treatment, physiotherapy and speech and language therapy intervention (PSALTI), had on average an improvement in their quality of life compared to people in the control group. However, this benefit compared to control was short‐lived and disappeared after four weeks. This means that although the treatment appeared to work in the shorter term, it may not improve quality of life in the longer term compared to usual care. 
We also looked for information about side effects or harms of the treatment. The same study reported that no one experienced serious side effects or harms during the study. 
