Diagnostic accuracy of different scans following a CT scan for assessing whether pancreatic and periampullary cancer is resectable 
Review question 
How well do different scans identify whether pancreatic and periampullary cancer is resectable (can be surgically removed) in patients with pancreatic cancer in whom computed tomography (CT) scan suggests that the cancer can be removed? 
CT scan involves a series of X‐rays which are combined by a computer to provide detailed images of the area of the body X‐rayed. 
Background 
The pancreas is an organ situated in the abdomen close to the junction of the stomach and small bowel. It secretes digestive juices that are necessary for the digestion of all food materials. The digestive juices secreted in the pancreas drain into the upper part of the small bowel via the pancreatic duct. The bile duct is a tube which drains bile from the liver and gallbladder. The pancreatic and bile ducts share a common path just before they drain into the small bowel. This area is called the periampullary region. Surgical removal is the only potentially curative treatment for cancers arising from the pancreatic and periampullary regions. A considerable proportion of patients undergo unnecessary major open abdominal exploratory operation (laparotomy) because their CT scan has underestimated the spread of cancer. If the cancer is spread within the abdomen as identified during the major open operation, the main treatment is chemotherapy which does not cure the cancer but may improve survival. Thus the major open abdominal operation with its associated risks can be avoided if the spread of cancer within the abdomen is known before the major operation. Determining the extent of cancer is called "staging" the cancer. Usually the minimum test used for staging is the CT scan. However, CT scan can understage the cancer, i.e. it can underestimate the spread of cancer. Various other scans can be used in addition to CT scan in order to find out if pancreatic cancer is resectable (able to be surgically removed). These include the following tests. 
1. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI): use of a powerful magnet to produce images of different tissues of the body. 
2. Positron emission tomography (PET scan): small amount of radioactive glucose (sugar) is used to differentiate between different tissues. It utilises the property that cancer cells often use more glucose than normal cells). 
3. Endoscopic ultrasound (EUS); the use of an endoscope, a camera introduced into the body cavities to view the inside of the body. An ultrasound (high‐energy sound waves) probe at the end of the endoscope is used to differentiate different tissues. 
In addition, a combination of PET‐CT may be performed instead of CT.
Different studies report different accuracy of these tests in assessing whether the cancer can be removed. In this review, we identified all such studies and used appropriate mathematical methods to identify the average diagnostic accuracy of these tests for staging pancreatic and periampullary cancers considered to be removable after a CT scan. 
Study characteristics 
We included two studies with a total of 34 patients in this review. Both studies evaluated the diagnostic performance of EUS. This evidence is current to 5 November 2015. 
