Fortification of salt with iron and iodine compared to salt fortified with iodine only for improving iron and iodine status 
Key messages 
Compared to iodised salt, double‐fortified salt (salt fortified with iron and iodine) may improve some measures of iron and iodine nutrition, such as haemoglobin (i.e. the substance that gives red blood cells their colour) concentrations and body iron stores. However, it may reduce urinary iodine concentration and may make little or no difference to ferritin (i.e. iron‐storage protein) concentrations and transferrin receptor (i.e. protein that affects the uptake of iron) concentrations. It probably also reduces the prevalence of anaemia (lack of haemoglobin), and may reduce the prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia (lack of iron), compared to iodised salt.  
Well‐designed studies that assess the effects of double‐fortified salt within non‐research populations (i.e. real‐life settings), and that measure salt intake, including changes in salt consumption, are needed.  
What is iron deficiency? 
Almost two billion people experience a deficiency in a vitamin or mineral (or both), with women and children in resource‐limited settings most frequently affected. Iron‐related deficiencies are among the most common deficiencies in the world and have important short‐ and long‐term health consequences. Interventions to provide iron frequently include iron supplementation, including iron tablets, powders, or syrups. However, these have known barriers, and food fortification strategies may be attractive alternatives. Salt is one of few universally consumed food vehicles. Iodised salt is fortified to provide 100% of a person's iodine requirements and is highly effective. Double‐fortified salt was developed to provide 30% of a person's daily dietary iron requirement and 100% of their iodine requirement. In some resource‐limited settings, where iron‐related deficiencies are a common problem, there has been interest in making double‐fortified salt more available to the public. This calls for further understanding of the effect of double‐fortified salt on related outcomes.  
What did we want to find out? 
If double‐fortified salt is better than salt fortified with iodine alone for improving measures of iron and iodine‐related nutrition, in particular:  
