Constraint‐induced movement therapy for upper limb (arm) recovery after stroke
Review question 
We wanted to assess the effects of constraint‐induced movement therapy (CIMT) on ability to manage daily activities and on the recovery of movement in paralysed arms after a stroke. 
Background 
After a stroke, people can suffer from paralysis of an arm, and, even if some movement control remains, use it less than the unaffected arm. The paralysis makes arm movements, such as reaching, grasping, and manipulating objects difficult. In turn, this causes many difficulties in activities of daily life, such as bathing, dressing, eating and using the toilet. During CIMT the unaffected arm is restrained so it cannot be used, which means the affected arm has to be used instead. The unaffected arm and hand are prevented from moving with a glove or a special arm rest. CIMT is supposed to be a useful tool for recovering the ability to perform everyday activities. 
Study characteristics 
We, a team of Cochrane researchers, searched widely through the medical literature and identified 42 relevant studies involving 1453 participants. The evidence is current to January 2015. The participants in these studies had some control of their affected arm and were generally able to open their affected hand by extending the wrist and fingers. CIMT treatments varied between studies in terms of the time for which the participants' unaffected arm was constrained each day, and the amount of active exercise that the affected arm was required to do. CIMT was compared mainly to active physiotherapy treatments, and sometimes to no treatment. 
Key results 
The 42 studies assessed different aspects of recovery from stroke, and not all measured the same things. Eleven studies (with 344 participants) assessed the effect of CIMT on disability (the effective use of the arm in daily living) and found that the use of CIMT did not lead to improvement in ability to manage everyday activities such as bathing, dressing, eating, and toileting. Twenty‐eight trials (with 858 participants) tested whether CIMT improved the ability to use the affected arm. CIMT appeared to be more effective at improving arm movement than active physiotherapy treatments or no treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence for each outcome is limited due to small numbers of study participants and poor reporting of study details. We considered the quality of the evidence to be low for disability and very low for the ability to use the affected arm. 
