Dietary advice during pregnancy to prevent gestational diabetes
What is the issue? 
Can dietary advice for pregnant women prevent the development of diabetes in pregnancy, known as gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), which can cause health complications for women and their babies? 
Why is this important? 
Women with GDM have an increased risk of developing high blood pressure and protein in their urine during pregnancy (pre‐eclampsia), and of having a caesarean section birth. Their babies may grow large and, as a result, be injured at birth, or cause injury to their mothers during birth. Additionally, there can be long‐term health problems for women and their babies, including an increased risk of cardiovascular disease or type 2 diabetes. The number of women being diagnosed with GDM is increasing around the world, so finding simple and cost‐effective ways to prevent women developing GDM is important. 
Carbohydrates are the main nutrient affecting blood glucose after meals. The glycaemic index (GI) can be used to characterise the capability of carbohydrate‐based foods to raise these levels. Some diets, for example, those with low‐fibre and high‐GI foods, can increase the risk of developing GDM. It has been suggested that dietary advice interventions in pregnancy may help to prevent women developing GDM. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies on 3 January 2016, and included 11 randomised controlled trials involving 2786 pregnant women and their babies. The quality of the evidence was assessed as low or very low and the overall risk of bias of the trials was unclear to moderate. Six trials compared dietary advice with standard care, four compared advice focused on a low‐GI diet with advice for a moderate‐ to high‐GI diet, and one compared dietary advice focused on a high‐fibre diet with standard advice. 
There was a possible reduction in the development of GDM for women who received dietary advice versus standard care across five trials (1279 women, very low‐quality evidence), though no clear difference for GDM was seen between women who received low‐ versus moderate‐ to high‐GI diet advice across four trials (912 women, low‐quality evidence). Two trials (282 women) reported no clear difference between women who received dietary advice versus standard care for pre‐eclampsia (low‐quality evidence), though fewer women who received dietary advice developed pregnancy‐induced high blood pressure (low‐quality evidence). There was no clear difference between the groups of women who received low‐GI and moderate‐ to high‐GI diet advice, in the number of babies born large‐for‐gestational age across three trials (777 babies, very low‐quality evidence). Only one trial comparing dietary advice with standard care reported on the number of babies who died (either before birth or shortly afterwards), with no deaths in this trial. 
There were no clear differences for most of the other outcomes assessed in the trials comparing dietary advice with standard care. including caesarean section, perineal trauma, and child skin‐fold thickness at six months. However, women who received dietary advice gained less weight during their pregnancy across five trials (1336 women) (low‐quality evidence). 
Similarly, there were no clear differences for other outcomes assessed in the trials comparing low‐ and moderate‐ to high‐GI diet advice, including for caesarean birth and weight gain in pregnancy. The trial comparing dietary advice focused on a high‐fibre diet with standard advice found no clear differences for any outcomes. 
The included trials did not report on a large number of outcomes listed in this review, including outcomes relating to longer‐term health for the women and their babies (as children and adults), and the use and cost of health services. 
