Pharmacological interventions for treating heart failure in patients with Chagas cardiomyopathy
Review question  We reviewed pharmacological interventions for treating heart failure in people with Chagas cardiomyopathy. 
Background  Named in honour of the Brazilian physician Carlos Chagas, Chagas disease is caused by the Trypanosoma cruzi parasite. It is common in Latin and Central America and leads to Chagas cardiomyopathy (heart muscle disease). It is an important cause of heart failure. The number of people infected with Chagas disease has been estimated to be about 10 to 12 million worldwide; around 20% to 30% of individuals infected with Trypanosoma cruzi will develop symptomatic heart disease at some point during their lives. In the Americas in 2005, there were estimated to be 7,694,500 people infected by Trypanosoma cruzi and 1,772,365 suffering from chagasic cardiomyopathy. Infected people from endemic countries in Latin America are migrating throughout the world. As a result, what was thought to be a health problem in the Americas is rapidly becoming a world health problem. It has been estimated that 300,167 individuals with Trypanosoma cruzi infection live in the United States, with 30,000 to 45,000 cardiomyopathy cases and 63 to 315 congenital infections annually. Standard treatment options for non‐Chagas disease heart failure are used for treating Chagas disease‐related heart failure. However, because of fundamental differences in the affected populations, it is important to assess the benefits and harms of pharmacological interventions for Chagas disease‐related heart failure. 
Study characteristics  We identified one new trial, so there are now three studies involving 108 participants. All studies were conducted in Brazil during 2004, 2007, and 2012. Two trials evaluated the effects of carvedilol versus placebo; one trial assessed rosuvastatin versus placebo. 
Key results  The results were inconclusive that carvedilol reduced all‐cause mortality or improved quality of life more than placebo. The safety profile of carvedilol for Chagas cardiomyopathy remains unclear. One study assessed the effect of rosuvastatin versus placebo, but did not show an effect size. Therefore, the results from available clinical trials neither support nor reject the use of carvedilol or rosuvastatin in treating this clinical entity. Further investigation is warranted to investigate the exact applicability of conventional heart failure treatment agents in Chagas cardiomyopathy. 
