Cerebrolysin for vascular dementia
Background 
Vascular dementia is a common form of dementia caused by poor blood flow to the brain. There are currently no proven and licenced treatments for vascular dementia. Cerebrolysin is a medicine that is made from pig's brains and given as an injection. In some countries, Cerebrolysin is used as a treatment for vascular dementia. A previous summary from 2013 considered all studies of Cerebrolysin and vascular dementia. A definitive conclusion as to whether Cerebrolysin was beneficial could not be made. 
Purpose of this review 
We wanted to learn whether Cerebrolysin can benefit people living with vascular dementia. We were particularly interested in the effects of the medication on memory and thinking; daily functioning; side effects; and and quality of life for people with vascular dementia and their caregivers. As some time has passed since the last review of Cerebrolysin, we wanted to update the review with a search for any new studies. 
What we did 
We searched for studies that described the effect of Cerebrolysin in people living with vascular dementia. We searched databases of scientific studies, including resources from countries where Cerebrolysin is commonly used. To be included in our review, the studies had to randomly decide whether people were treated with Cerebrolysin or a comparison. We combined the results of the included studies to estimate the effect of Cerebrolysin. We also assessed how well the studies were conducted and how credible the results were. The evidence is current to May 2019. 
What we found 
We found six studies including a total of 597 people living with vascular dementia. The method of Cerebrolysin treatment differed across studies, with varying strengths of Cerebrolysin and treatment durations. The studies reported that Cerebrolysin had beneficial effects on memory and thinking and on daily functioning. There was no reported risk of side effects with treatment. None of the studies described quality of life of people living with vascular dementia or their caregivers. 
