Inhaled hyperosmolar agents for bronchiectasis
Review question 
We wanted to know if inhaled hyperosmolar agents ‐ treatments which help people cough up sputum ‐ may be helpful for people with bronchiectasis. We only included trials on people who had bronchiectasis and who did not have cystic fibrosis. Therefore we are unable to draw any conclusions for people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Bronchiectasis is a lung condition that usually develops after a series of lung problems (such as childhood infections, problems in the lung structure, tuberculosis, and cystic fibrosis). A lot of mucus (phlegm) collects in the lungs, causing discomfort and the need to cough it up. The phlegm also collects bacteria, which can add to breathing difficulties and make people very ill by causing recurring lung infections that are difficult to clear with antibiotics. Breathing in (inhaling) hypertonic saline (salt solutions with a greater salt content than blood) liquids may help clear this mucus, as may the drug mannitol (inhaled in dry powder form). This is because the concentrated salt or sugar (mannitol) draws water into the mucus in the lung and makes it thinner and easier to cough out. 
Study characteristics 
We found 11 randomised controlled trials on 1021 participants that compared inhaled hyperosmolar agents versus no mucolytic treatment. Five studies compared inhaled mannitol versus placebo (with a total of 883 participants) and two very small studies (with a total of just 25 participants) compared inhaled mannitol with no treatment. We also found four studies (with a total of 113 participants) that compared hypertonic saline with isotonic (normal) saline. 
Key results 
For the comparison between mannitol and placebo only one study (a 12‐month trial with 461 participants) provided information on the number of people who had an exacerbation (or flare up) over the course of a year. This study showed that people who were treated with mannitol had 8% fewer exacerbations on average compared with placebo. Overall, we felt the quality of this evidence was moderate and new trials would be likely to change either how effective we think the treatment is or how confident we are about it. 
Three trials assessed the effect of mannitol on health‐related quality of life, and again the quality of the evidence was rated as moderate. An analysis of adverse events data, also based on moderate quality evidence, revealed no difference between mannitol and placebo 
The trials comparing hypertonic saline with isotonic saline had conflicting results for most of the outcomes of interest. Because we were unable to combine the data, it is not possible to draw robust conclusions for this comparison and judgments should be reserved until further data are available. Our analysis of adverse events between hypertonic saline versus isotonic saline showed no significant difference however this was based on a single study and the quality of the evidence was moderate. 
Quality of the evidence 
Details of how the patients in the trials were allocated to receive mannitol or not was clearly described in only one of the studies, and similarly only one of the hypertonic saline versus isotonic saline studies provided this information. The general lack of information on this point was considered carefully in the review in relation to our level of uncertainty in interpreting the results. Taking this into account, the quality of evidence was generally regarded as moderate both for the mannitol and hypertonic saline studies. 
