Disease‐modifying drugs for people with a first clinical attack suggestive of multiple sclerosis 
This summary presents data about the benefit and side effects of some disease‐modifying drugs used at the time when multiple sclerosis is diagnosed after a first clinical attack. We reviewed the available evidence to answer three questions: 1) is early treatment beneficial and safe? 2) which drug is best for early treatment? 3) is early treatment better than later treatment? 
Sufficient data were available from 22 studies on the following drugs: cladribine (Movectro), glatiramer acetate (Copaxone), interferon beta‐1b (Betaferon), interferon beta‐1a (Rebif; Avonex), and teriflunomide (Aubagio). 
First question: is early treatment beneficial and safe? 
Disability‐worsening  Among people who took Aubagio or Rebif, 28 people out of 100 experienced disability‐worsening over two years’ treatment compared to 34 people out of 100 who took placebo (6% absolute benefit). The overall quality of the included studies is very low, so our confidence in this result is low. 
Relapse  Early treatment was associated with lower proportions of people who had a second attack ‐ ie who received a diagnosis of MS ‐ during the first two years' treatment, compared to people who took placebo. Among people who took Aubagio, 32 people out of 100 experienced recurrent relapses over two years’ treatment compared to 42 people out of 100 who took placebo (10% absolute benefit). Again, the overall quality of evidence is very low. 
Serious side effects  Among people who took Aubagio, Avonex, Betaferon, Copaxone, Movectro, or Rebif, there is probably little or no difference in serious side effects over two years’ treatment compared with people who took placebo. 
Side effects  Among people who took Betaferon, 11 people out of 100 experienced side effects compared to one person out of 100 people who took placebo (10% absolute harm). Among people who took Movectro, seven people out of 100 experienced side effects compared to two out of 100 people who took placebo (5% absolute harm). Among people who took Copaxone, six people out of 100 experienced a side effect compared to two out of 100 people who took placebo (4% absolute harm). 
Second question: which drug is best for early treatment? 
Disability‐worsening  Indirect comparison of Rebif with Aubagio did not show any difference on reducing disability‐worsening over two years’ treatment. However, there were few studies and the overall quality of evidence is very low. 
Relapse 
Only one study on Aubagio was available, so we cannot compare the effects of each drug compared with one other. 
Side effects  Rebif and Aubagio were associated with fewer dropouts because of side effects compared with Betaferon, Copaxone, or Movectro. 
Third question: is early treatment better than later treatment? 
Disability‐worsening  Among people who received early treatment with Avonex, Betaferon, Copaxone, or Rebif, 37 people out of 100 experienced disability‐worsening at a maximum of five years’ follow‐up compared with 40 people out of 100 who received later treatment (3% absolute benefit). However, the great variability between the studies and the low quality of the evidence make our confidence in this result low. 
