Protease activity and its association with future healing of venous leg ulcers
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if there is a link between different levels of protease in venous leg ulcers (open skin wounds on the lower leg caused by problems with the way blood flows through the veins) now and the healing of wounds at some time in the future. Protease is an enzyme, a chemical naturally produced by the body that breaks down proteins and which may affect wound healing. We wanted to know whether having higher protease levels meant that wounds were less likely to heal or to heal more slowly. If so, this could help find the most useful treatments for each person with a leg ulcer. Review authors from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 19 studies. 
Key messages 
At the moment, there is complete uncertainty about any association between protease activity and venous leg ulcer healing, but this review did give pointers on what may be important for future research on natural chemicals present in wounds and their effect on healing. 
What was studied in the review? 
Venous leg ulcers can last weeks, months or years. Leg ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and may affect mobility and quality of life. The usual treatment for venous leg ulcers is compression therapy (e.g. compression (elastic) bandages), but even this does not work for everyone (about a third of people still have wounds that have not healed after six months). We wanted to find out why these wounds often do not heal, and whether there are factors in the wound (called biomarkers) that can indicate which wounds are unlikely to heal. It has been suggested that wounds are slow to heal when there are high levels of protease. In this review, we investigated whether there was any evidence that higher protease levels at the start of a study were associated with slower healing leg ulcers or less healing at a future time point (such as six months). 
