Enteral nutritional therapy for treatment of active Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease is a long‐term inflammation of the gastrointestinal (GI) tract, occurring anywhere from mouth to anus. Common symptoms of this condition include abdominal pain, diarrhea and weight loss. When Crohn's disease patients are experiencing symptoms, it is characterized to be 'active' disease. When the symptoms stop, it is called 'remission'. 
What is enteral nutrition? 
Enteral nutrition is a feeding method where all of a person's daily caloric intake is delivered using the GI tract. An example of this is nasogastric tube feeding, where a tube is inserted through a person's nose to deliver their daily nutritional requirements in liquid form. Enteral nutrition can be a form of nutritional therapy for Crohn's disease patients. Enteral nutrition is categorized into elemental and non‐elemental (semi‐elemental and polymeric) diets. Elemental diets come from amino‐acid sources, whereas non‐elemental diets come from oligopeptide or whole protein sources. 
What are corticosteroids? 
Corticosteroids are an effective treatment option for active Crohn's disease. These drugs that are taken by mouth and work as immunosuppressants. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers studied whether enteral nutrition is better than steroid therapy at producing remission in Crohn's disease patients. In addition, the investigators looked to see if one type of enteral nutrition was better than another (e.g. elemental vs.non‐elemental) at producing remission in Crohn's disease. 
What did the researchers find? 
The researchers found twenty‐seven studies (1,011 participants) that fulfilled the search criteria. Eleven of these studies, which included 378 patients, compared elemental to non‐elemental diets at producing remission in Crohn's disease. Eight studies, which included 352 patients, investigated enteral nutrition compared to steroid therapy at inducing remission in Crohn's disease. The researchers searched the medical literature extensively up to July 5, 2017. 
Very low quality evidence suggests that steroids may be more effective than enteral nutrition for induction of remission in adults with active Crohn's disease. Very low quality evidence also suggests that enteral nutrition may be more effective than steroids for induction of remission in children with active Crohn's disease. There was no difference in remission rates between elemental and non‐elemental diets. An increase in side effects was not seen with elemental diets compared to non‐elemental diets, nor with enteral nutrition compared to steroids. Common side effects experienced with enteral nutrition included vomiting, diarrhea, heartburn and flatulence . Common side effects associated with steroid use included acne, moon facies, muscle weakness, hyperglycemia (high blood sugar) and hypoglycemia (low blood sugar) . Patients on enteral nutrition were more likely to withdraw from the study due to side effects than those on steroids. The most common reason for study withdrawal was inability to tolerate the taste of the enteral nutrition diet. Enteral nutrition should be considered in pediatric Crohn's patients or in adult patients who can comply with nasogastric tube feeding or perceive the formulations to be palatable, or when steroid side effects are not tolerated or better avoided. Further research is required to confirm the superiority of corticosteroids over EN in adults. Further research is required to confirm the benefit of EN in children. More effort from industry should be taken to develop palatable polymeric formulations that can be delivered without use of a nasogastric tube as this may lead to increased patient compliance with this therapy. 
