Treatments for hereditary haemochromatosis
Background 
Hereditary haemochromatosis is an inherited genetic disorder (derived from one's parents) resulting in excessive iron accumulation in the body. Some people develop liver damage leading to liver failure, heart damage leading to heart failure, impotence (inability for a man to have an erection or orgasm), diabetes, arthritis (joint pain and swelling), and skin pigmentation (colouring) because of excessive iron accumulation. Several treatments are used to treat hereditary haemochromatosis but the best way is not clear. We searched for randomised clinical trials (well‐design clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) reported to March 2016. We included trials in which participants had not had a liver transplant. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time (direct comparison), we planned to use an advanced method which allows comparison of the many different treatments which are individually compared in the trials (network meta‐analysis). However, because there was only one comparison, we used standard Cochrane methodology. 
Study characteristics 
We identified three trials. Two trials with 100 participants provided information on one or more outcomes (measures of how well the treatments worked). The trials compared phlebotomy (removal of blood or 'blood letting') versus erythrocytapheresis (removal of blood, separation of red cells (which carry oxygen in the blood), and return of the remaining parts of the blood). Two trials were conducted in people who had not undergone previous treatment for haemochromatosis. The trial that provided most data for this review excluded people with cancer, heart failure, and serious irregular heartbeats. 
Source of funding: the two trials that provided data for this review were funded by parties with no vested interest in the results; the source of funding of the third trial was not reported. 
