Surgical versus non‐surgical treatment for pus in the space around the lungs
Review question 
We investigated if there was a difference in outcomes for patients who develop pus in the space around the lungs (empyema) among those who had surgical treatment and people who had non‐surgical treatment. We looked for differences in proportions of children and adults who survived, time in hospital, and complications from treatments. 
Background 
Pus can form in the space around the lungs as a result of pneumonia, complication of chest wall trauma, or surgery. Solid divisions, called loculations, can form within the pus. The infection does not usually improve with antibiotic treatment alone. 
There are several surgical and non‐surgical treatments. Non‐surgical treatments include draining pus using a needle inserted through the chest wall (thoracentesis) or by inserting a tube through the chest wall to drain infection (thoracostomy). If a chest tube is inserted, drugs can be injected into the space around the lungs to break down the divisions. This is called fibrinolysis. Non‐surgical treatments can cause harms, including air in the space around the lungs, damage to chest tissue, or lungs filling with fluid as they re‐expand. Surgical treatment involves either opening the chest cavity and clearing out the infection (thoracotomy) or clearing out infection through small cuts on the chest wall with the aid of a camera, known as video‐assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). A chest tube drains any fluids after surgery. Risks from surgery include air in the space around the lungs, rib pain, and anaesthetic complications. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to October 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included eight trials with a total of 391 participants. Six trials focused on children and two on adults. The trials compared chest tube drainage (non‐surgical), with or without fibrinolysis, to either VATS or thoracotomy (surgical). 
Study funding sources 
Two studies declared no financial conflicts of interest; the remaining six studies did not report funding source. 
Key results 
There was no difference in the proportion of patients of all ages who survived empyema in relation to surgical or non‐surgical treatment. However, this finding was based on limited data: one study reported one death with each treatment option, and seven studies reported no deaths. There was no difference in rates of complications between patients treated with surgical or non‐surgical options. 
There was limited evidence to suggest that VATS reduced length of stay in hospital compared to non‐surgical treatments. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of the evidence was moderate overall. The main limitations were few included studies for each analysis and inconsistencies among studies. 
