Aspirin (single dose) for relief of perineal pain after childbirth
What is the issue? 
Can aspirin be given to women who experience perineal pain following childbirth to relieve the pain, without causing side effects for either the women or their babies? 
Why is this important? 
Many women experience pain in the perineum (the area between the vagina and anus) following childbirth. The perineum may be bruised or torn during childbirth, or have a cut made to help the baby to be born (an episiotomy). After childbirth, perineal pain can interfere with women's ability to care for their newborns and establish breastfeeding. If perineal pain is not relieved effectively, longer‐term problems for women may include painful sexual intercourse, pelvic floor problems resulting in incontinence, prolapse, or chronic perineal pain. Aspirin may be given to women who have perineal pain after childbirth, but its effectiveness and safety had not been assessed in a systematic review. This is an update of a review last published in 2017. This is part of a series of reviews looking at drugs to help relieve perineal pain in first few weeks after childbirth. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in October 2019, and included 17 randomised controlled studies, involving 1132 women, published between 1967 and 1997. All women had perineal pain following an episiotomy (usually within 48 hours after birth), and were not breastfeeding. The women received either aspirin (doses ranging from 300 mg to 1200 mg) or fake pills (placebo), by mouth. The methodological quality of the studies was often unclear. Two studies did not contribute any data for analyses. 
Aspirin compared with placebo may increase adequate pain relief for mothers four to eight hours after administration (low‐certainty evidence). It is uncertain whether aspirin compared with placebo has an effect on the need for additional pain relief, or on adverse effects for mothers, in the four to eight hours after administration (both very low‐certainty evidence). 
The effects of administering 300 mg versus 600 mg aspirin (1 study), 600 mg versus 1200 mg aspirin (2 studies), or 300 mg versus 1200 mg aspirin (1 study) are uncertain for adequate pain relief, the need for additional pain relief, or adverse effects for the mother. 
No studies reported on adverse effects of aspirin for the baby, or other outcomes we planned to assess: prolonged hospital stay, or readmission to hospital due to perineal pain; perineal pain six weeks after childbirth, women's views, or postpartum depression. 
