Tumour bed boost radiotherapy for women after breast‐conserving surgery
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer in women worldwide. The two main treatment strategies are either breast‐conserving therapy or mastectomy. To decrease the risk of recurrence and improve survival rates, standard care involves adjuvant radiotherapy (treatment with ionising radiation) after breast‐conserving surgery. Adjuvant radiotherapy consists mainly of four to five weeks of whole‐breast irradiation followed by an extra dose 'boost' to the tumour bed because breast cancer tends to come back in the same area where it was removed. Apart from maintaining the breast and achieving breast cancer control, a satisfying physical appearance (cosmesis) is important in breast‐conserving therapy. 
Why does it matter? 
Guidelines for use of the tumour bed boost are often not clear‐cut. Even though it is technically feasible to treat all women with a boost to the tumour bed after whole‐breast irradiation, it remains unclear whether this is necessary or whether it may do more harm than good. Possible consequences of adding a boost dose to the tumour bed are poor cosmesis, as well as higher treatment costs and increased treatment times. 
We asked whether not giving a tumour bed boost dose after whole‐breast irradiation and breast‐conserving surgery is as good as giving the boost dose. Omission of a boost to the tumour bed would need to have equivalent cancer control compared with giving a boost to the tumour bed. It would also be important that omission of a boost to the tumour bed results in fewer side effects compared with giving the tumour bed boost dose. 
We found 5 studies involving a total of 8325 women. Our evidence is current to 1 March 2017. Local recurrence was less common with a tumour bed boost (low‐quality evidence). There was no evidence of a difference in disease‐free or overall survival with or without the administration of the tumour bed boost (low‐ and moderate‐quality evidence, respectively). Cosmesis scored by a panel appeared to be worse for the tumour bed boost group (low‐quality evidence). There was no difference in physician‐scored cosmesis or percentage of breast retraction. 
