Chinese medicinal herbs for oesophageal cancer
Review question 
Chinese herbal medicine is widely used as adjunct therapy to chemo‐ or radiotherapy in patients being treated for cancer of the oesophagus. As yet there is no evidence that Chinese herbal medicine is effective or not in this role. 
Background 
We performed a systematic review of the potential benefits of Chinese herbal medicine by comparing chemo‐ or radiotherapy for oesophageal cancer with and without concurrent herbal medicine. We searched the Cochrane Upper Gastrointestinal and Pancreatic Diseases Group Trials Register, the Cochrane Library, MEDLINE, EMBASE, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED), China National Knowledge Infrastructure (CNKI), VIP database, Wanfang database and the Chinese Cochrane Centre Controlled Trials Register up to 1 October, 2015. We also searched databases of ongoing trials, the Internet and reference lists. 
Study characteristics 
We identified nine randomised controlled trials (RCTs). All trials were conducted in China. 
Key results 
This updated review included nine trials involving 490 participants. When Chinese herbal medicine was used as adjunct therapy to chemo‐ or radiotherapy for oesophageal cancer, the results showed a positive effect on quality of life, increased tolerance of patients for adverse effects caused by radiotherapy or chemotherapy (e.g. radiation oesophagitis, gastrointestinal reactions and blood cell descent), but no effects on all‐cause mortality, median survival times or time to progression. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the quality of evidence to be low to moderate due to risk of bias; the small number of people enrolled in these studies caused imprecision and inconsistent results. The nine included trials did not allow a subgroup analysis of different kinds of Chinese herbal medicine, the therapeutic purposes of which are different between each other; this might be another reason for imprecise results. High quality trials are required in the future. 
