Drug therapy for treating systemic intravascular activation of coagulation in patients with leukemia 
Review question  We reviewed the clinical benefits and harms of anticoagulant and antifibrinolytic therapy for treating disseminated intravascular coagulation (DIC) in patients with acute or chronic leukemia. 
Background  DIC is a thrombo‐hemorrhagic complication (involving blood clotting or bleeding) characterized by deposition of fibrin (a fibrous protein) in the bloodstream, which occurs in the course of various diseases including acute and chronic leukemia and is particularly associated with acute promyelocytic leukemia (a subtype of acute myeloid leukemia). DIC is never considered as an isolated clinical entity and represents a hematological emergency. Therefore, DIC requires treatment and resolution of the underlying disease in addition to other approaches, such as antibiotic therapy, replacement of blood products and fluid therapy, which are considered 'primary' or 'conventional care' interventions. DIC is accompanied by hyperfibrinolysis (increased dissolution of blood clots) and reduction of natural anticoagulants (proteins of the coagulation cascade). Hence, pharmacological interventions such as tranexamic acid (an antifibrinolytic agent) and heparin (an anticoagulant) have been used for treating patients with this acquired disorder. However, this practice is not considered as standard care and there is a lot of controversy about its clinical benefits. 
Study characteristics 
We included four trials that had a limited number of patients (388) and assessed four different interventions: human activated protein C, recombinant human soluble thrombomodulin, tranexamic acid and dermatan sulphate with heparin or placebo. Two trials included patients either with or without leukemia. The other two trials only included patients with leukemia. The studies were published between 1989 and 2007, and were conducted in Japan, Italy and the Netherlands. All trials have a high risk of bias. 
Key results 
There were no deaths reported in a trial comparing dermatan sulphate with heparin. Two small trials which included patients with leukemia only (22 participants) reported bleeding data. These results were not compiled due to inconsistency in the measurement and reporting of that outcome. One trial found very low quality evidence that tranexamic acid compared with placebo reduces bleeding in leukemia patients. On the contrary, there is no evidence that dermatan sulphate compared with placebo reduces new events of hemorrhagic diathesis in patients with leukemia. Saftey profile is inconclusive. No thromboembolic complications were reported in both the trials. 
