Training the muscles that cause the chest to expand and contract in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
What are the effects of training muscles to influence breathing (in and out) in people with cystic fibrosis? 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is the most common genetic disease in white populations and causes problems with the lungs in most people with the condition. Training the muscles that cause the chest to expand and contract may help to improve lung function and the quality of life for people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 11 June 2020.
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies where people with cystic fibrosis were put into either a group for respiratory muscle training or a control group at random. We included ten studies with 238 people which used a wide variety of training methods and levels. In eight of the studies, the treatment group and the control group each only received either respiratory muscle training or a control treatment (one study had three groups in total: one receiving control treatment and two receiving different levels of training). In one study the participants received both types of treatment, but in a random order. Lastly, one study compared training with usual care. The studies lasted for a maximum of 12 weeks and all were quite small; the largest only had 39 people taking part. The studies included people with a range of ages over six years old, but most seemed to be adults. The studies reported a variety of outcomes. All reported some measure of respiratory muscle strength, and most reported at least one measure of lung function, however only three studies reported on quality of life. 
Key results 
Results could not be combined to answer the review question, because the studies either did not publish enough details or did not use the same standard measurements. No study found any difference in lung function after training, but one of the studies reported an improvement in exercise duration when training at 60% of maximal effort and a further study which trained participants at 80% of maximal effort reported some improvements in quality of life judgements. There was some evidence of an improvement in respiratory muscle function in two studies. 
Given this lack of information, a recommendation for or against respiratory muscle training cannot be made. Future studies should look to improve upon the methods of those previously conducted, and should report using standardised measurements. 
