What is the diagnostic accuracy of antibody tests for the detection of infection with the COVID‐19 virus? 
Background 
COVID‐19 is an infectious disease caused by the SARS‐CoV‐2 virus that spreads easily between people in a similar way to the common cold or ‘flu. Most people with COVID‐19 have a mild to moderate respiratory illness, and some may have no symptoms (asymptomatic infection). Others experience severe symptoms and need specialist treatment and intensive care. 
The immune system of people who have COVID‐19 responds to infection by developing proteins that can attack the virus (antibodies) in their blood. Tests to detect antibodies in peoples' blood might show whether they currently have COVID‐19 or have had it previously. 
Why are accurate tests important? 
Accurate testing allows identification of people who might need treatment, or who need to isolate themselves to prevent the spread of infection. Failure to detect people with COVID‐19 when it is present (a false negative result) may delay treatment and risk further spread of infection to others. Incorrect identification of COVID‐19 when it is not present (a false positive result) may lead to unnecessary further testing, treatment, and isolation of the person and close contacts. Correct identification of people who have previously had COVID‐19 is important in measuring disease spread, assessing the success of public health interventions (like isolation), and potentially in identifying individuals with immunity (should antibodies in the future be shown to indicate immunity). 
To identify false negative and false positive results, antibody test results are compared in people known to have COVID‐19 and known not to have COVID‐19. Study participants are classified as to whether they are known or not known to have COVID‐19 based on criteria known as the ‘reference standard’. Many studies use samples taken from the nose and throat to identify people with COVID‐19. The samples undergo a test called reverse transcriptase polymerase chain reaction (RT‐PCR). This testing process can sometimes miss infection (false negative result), but additional tests can identify COVID‐19 infection in people with a negative RT‐PCR result. These include measuring clinical symptoms, like coughing or high temperature, or ‘imaging’ tests like chest X‐rays. People known not to have COVID‐19 are sometimes identified from stored blood samples taken before COVID‐19 existed, or from patients with respiratory symptoms found to be caused by other diseases. 
What did the review study? 
The studies looked at three types of antibody, IgA, IgG and IgM. Most tests measure both IgG and IgM, but some measure a single antibody or combinations of the three antibodies. 
Levels of antibodies rise and fall at different times after infection. IgG is the last to rise but lasts longest. Levels of antibodies are usually highest a few weeks after infection. 
