Delivery of nutrition (food) to critically ill adults other than by the person eating and swallowing the food/nutrition 
Background 
Critically ill adults in the intensive care unit (ICU) are at an increased risk of malnutrition because the body responds to serious illness or injury by increasing the metabolic rate. Also, the person's feeding routine may be disrupted because they are unconscious or too ill to feed themselves or eat normally. This means alternative ways to ensure people receive adequate nutrition must be used. People may be given artificial nutrition in three ways: enteral feeding (through a tube placed into the stomach or small intestine; parenteral feeding (through a tube inserted into a vein whereby nutrients enter the bloodstream directly); or by a combination of both routes. This review compared the effects of these routes. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 3 October 2017. We included 25 studies with 8816 participants who had trauma, emergency, medical or postsurgical conditions and were in the ICU. Eleven studies are awaiting classification (because we did not have enough details to assess them) and two studies are ongoing. Included studies compared enteral feeding with parenteral feeding, or with combined enteral and parenteral feeding. 
Key results 
Studies reported the number of people who died from any cause at different time points. We found no evidence that enteral feeding compared to parenteral feeding or compared to a combination of routes was more or less likely to reduce the number of deaths in hospital, within 90 days and 180 days. We found evidence from three small studies that fewer people died within 30 days when feeding was given through combined enteral and parenteral routes. No studies reported number of ICU‐free days up to day 28 (i.e. length of stay in the ICU by taking account of expected participant loss because of death) and one study reported that the feeding route did not affect the number of ventilator‐free days. 
We found no evidence that enteral feeding compared to parenteral feeding was likely to increase or decrease cases of aspiration (the entry of materials such as food from the digestive system to the lungs) or pneumonia (swelling of the tissue in one or both lungs that is usually caused by a bacterial infection). Enteral nutrition may reduce sepsis (a life‐threatening condition that arises when the body's response to infection causes injury to its own tissues and organs), although evidence was from studies of people with different conditions (such as trauma, medical, or postsurgical conditions). We found that fewer participants vomited if they were given parenteral feeding rather than enteral feeding, although there were few studies with very few reported events. 
Certainty of the evidence 
It was not possible for researchers to mask the ICU staff to the type of feeding route, which may have biased the findings, and study authors did not consistently report good study methods. People in each study had different types of critical illness (such as trauma, medical, or postsurgical conditions) which may have affected how they responded to the type of feeding route, and there were limited data for many of our measurements. We believed that the certainty of the evidence was low or very low. 
