Laboratory blood, urine tests and liver biopsy used for the diagnosis of Wilson's disease in children and adults 
Why is improving Wilson's disease diagnosis important? 
Wilson's disease is an inherited disease that leads to a build‐up of copper in affected parts of the body. Diagnosis usually occurs in children or young adults, but has been seen in adults over 60 years of age. Copper build‐up begins in the liver progressing over time to affect the brain; however, the challenge for doctors is that liver disease in Wilson's disease has non‐specific features and standard liver blood tests may be normal, even with advanced scarring of the liver or cirrhosis. Early diagnosis allows earlier treatment, however, other causes of chronic liver disease may cause false‐positive results and, depending on cut‐off values used for testing, may result in further unnecessary testing. Conversely, false‐negative results may also arise when a single‐test strategy for diagnosis is used, possibly leading to a delay in treatment. 
What is the aim and what was included in this review? 
We aimed to examine the accuracy of three commonly used diagnostic tests to correctly identify Wilson's disease. These tests are: caeruloplasmin (a protein that carries copper in blood); copper in the urine; and copper in the liver. Initial evaluation usually involves checking an individual's eyes for signs of Wilson's disease and a blood test for caeruloplasmin, as this is the most widely accessible biochemical test for Wilson's disease. However, the pathway to diagnosing Wilson's disease is highly variable. Follow‐up testing depends on results of initial testing, plus the ability to access relevant tests and the likelihood with which the doctor believes the individual has Wilson's disease. 
What are the main results in the review? 
We found eight studies (5699 participants), of whom 1009 were diagnosed with Wilson's disease. One study assessed all three biochemical tests, three assessed caeruloplasmin, one assessed 24‐hour urinary copper, two assessed hepatic copper and one assessed both urine and hepatic copper. 
Four studies evaluated adults and children, three evaluated children and adolescents and one evaluated adults. The clinical presentation of Wilson's disease also varied: six studies evaluated individuals with both liver and neurological symptoms of Wilson's disease in addition to individuals who had not yet developed symptoms; and two studies evaluated individuals with liver symptoms only. 
The ability of the three tests evaluated to detect those with Wilson's disease (termed sensitivity) was variable (50% to 94.4%); the ability to detect those without disease (termed specificity) was also variable (52.2% to 98.3%). No single test was capable of diagnosing Wilson's disease in isolation. There was also not enough evidence to determine the accuracy of the tests within different age groups or Wilson's disease subgroups (e.g. those with liver or neurological symptoms). 
