Induction of labour at or near the end of pregnancy for babies suspected of being very large (macrosomia) 
What is the issue? 
Babies who are very large (or macrosomic, weighing over 4000 g when born) can have difficult and occasionally traumatic births. One suggestion to try to reduce this trauma has been to induce labour early, before the baby grows too big. The estimation of the baby's weight is difficult before birth and not very accurate. Clinical estimations are based on feeling the uterus and measuring the height of the fundus of the uterus. Both are subject to considerable variation. Ultrasound scanning is also not accurate, so suspected large babies may not be confirmed at delivery. This may worry parents. 
Why is this important? 
If undertaken too early, induction of labour can lead to babies being born prematurely and with immature organs. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found four trials that assessed induction of labour at 37 to 40 weeks for women when it was suspected that their baby was large. A total of 1190 pregnant, non‐diabetic women were involved. We searched for evidence on 31 October 2015. The studies were of moderate or good quality although it was not possible to blind the women and staff providing care to which group women had been assigned. This may have introduced bias. 
What does this mean? 
The number of births where the baby's shoulder became stuck (shoulder dystocia) or a bone was fractured (usually the clavicle, which heals well without consequences) were reduced in the induction of labour group. The evidence was assessed as moderate quality for shoulder dystocia and high quality for fracture. No clear differences between groups were reported for damage to the network of nerves that send signals from the spine to the shoulder, arm and hand (brachial plexus injury) of the baby (low‐quality evidence due to very few events occurring) or signs of not enough oxygen during birth. A policy of labour induction reduced the average birthweight of babies by 178 g. The trials did not show any differences in the number of women who had caesarean sections or instrumental births. There is limited evidence that more women in the induction of labour group had severe damage to the perineum. We conclude that there appear to be benefits, but there may also be some disadvantages of induction of labour shortly before term. The option of having an induction should be discussed with parents when their baby is suspected to be extra large. 
Although some parents and doctors may feel the existing evidence is sufficient to justify inducing labour, others may disagree. Further high‐quality studies are needed in order to find out what is the best time to induce labour towards the end of pregnancy, and how to improve the accuracy in diagnosing macrosomia. 
A visual summary of some of the results from this review can be found here (screen view version) and (printable version here). 
