Long‐acting FSH versus daily FSH for women undergoing assisted reproduction
Review question 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to compare the effectiveness and safety of weekly (long‐acting) follicle stimulating hormone (FSH) compared to daily FSH in women undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) treatment cycles.  Background 
When assisted reproduction techniques such as IVF and ICSI are performed, the fertilisation of the egg takes place outside the woman's body. Multiple eggs are needed to increase the availability of fertilised eggs. The growth of multiple eggs is achieved by stimulation of the ovary with FSH. There is a risk of overstimulation (ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome or OHSS). OHSS is a serious adverse effect which can cause illness or death. 
Current treatment regimens to stimulate the growth of multiple eggs prescribe daily injections of FSH during the first seven days of treatment. A new treatment is now available which replaces these injections with just a single injection. This new treatment can be more patient friendly, as daily injections may cause discomfort and be a physical burden to the women. 
Study characteristics 
We included six randomised controlled trials comparing weekly versus daily FSH in 3753 women undertaking controlled ovarian stimulation as part of an IVF/ICSI cycle. Their age ranged from 18 to 41 years. The studies used different dosages of weekly FSH ranging from 60 to 240 μg. Five studies reported live birth rate and all six studies reported OHSS rate (our primary outcomes). The evidence is current to June 2015. 
Key results 
There was no evidence of a difference in live birth rates between medium dose (150 to 180 μg) weekly FSH and daily FSH. There was evidence of a reduced live birth rate in women who received lower doses (60 to 120 μg) of weekly FSH when compared to daily FSH. Only one study used a high dose of weekly FSH, so we cannot make conclusions about this dosage group.There was no evidence of a difference between the groups in OHSS rate. We concluded that medium dose (150 to 180 μg) weekly FSH is a safe treatment option and is as effective in terms of life birth rate as daily FSH injections. 
