Interventions for treating oral leukoplakia to prevent oral cancer
Review question 
People with oral leukoplakia are at higher risk of developing oral cancer than those with normal oral mucosa. This review, produced through Cochrane Oral Health, seeks to evaluate whether people affected by leukoplakia can benefit from surgical, medical or complementary treatments, either local or systemic. In particular, we conducted this review to find out which, if any, treatment is able to prevent people with leukoplakia of the mouth from getting oral cancer. This review updates our previous review published in 2006. 
Background 
Oral leukoplakia is a white patch formed in the mouth lining that cannot be rubbed off. It often does not hurt and may go unnoticed for years. People with leukoplakia develop oral cancer more often than people without it. Preventing this is critical because rates of oral cancer survival longer than five years after diagnosis are low. Drugs, surgery and other therapies have been tried for treatment of oral leukoplakia. 
Objectives 
This review aimed to evaluate whether treatments for oral leukoplakia are effective in preventing oral cancer, and safe and acceptable to patients. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence on which this review is based is up‐to‐date as of May 2016. We found 14 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of medical and complementary treatments, which involved 909 participants in total. Treatments included herbal extracts, anti‐inflammatory drugs, vitamin A, beta carotene supplements and others. Surgical treatment has not been compared with placebo or no treatment in an RCT. 
Key results 
Cancer development was measured in studies of three treatments: systemic vitamin A, systemic beta carotene and topical bleomycin. None of these treatments showed effectiveness in preventing cancer development, as measured up to two years for vitamin A and beta carotene, and seven years for bleomycin. 
Some individual studies of vitamin A and beta carotene suggested that these treatments may be effective for improving or healing oral lesions. However, some studies observed a high rate of relapse in participants whose lesions were initially resolved by treatment. 
Most treatments caused side effects of differing severity in a high proportion of participants. 
It seems likely that interventions were well accepted by participants because drop‐out rates were similar between treatment and control groups. 
Quality of the evidence 
The available evidence is very limited. Most interventions were assessed by only one small study. Most studies had problems in the way they were conducted, making their results unreliable. We judged the quality of evidence for the outcome of cancer development to be very low. 
Author conclusions 
Larger, better studies of longer duration are required. As well as further studies of drug treatment and alternative treatments like vitamins, studies are needed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of surgery, and of stopping risk factor habits such as smoking. 
