Pentasaccharides for the prevention of venous blood clots
Background 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a condition in which people develop blood clots in their veins. It includes deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and the potentially fatal pulmonary embolism (PE). VTE occurs in more than 10% of patients in hospital and is the third most frequent cause of death among them. Therefore, effective prevention is necessary for people who are at high risk of VTE. The standard method of prevention involves use of an anticoagulant, for example, low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) or warfarin, among orthopaedic patients. In recent years, another type of anticoagulant, pentasaccharide, has shown good anticoagulative effect in clinical trials. Three types of pentasaccharides are available, namely, short‐acting fondaparinux, long‐acting idraparinux and idrabiotaparinux. 
Key results 
Our systematic review included 25 studies involving 21,004 participants (current until March 2016). We found no studies on long‐acting idraparinux nor idrabiotaparinux for prevention of VTE. Therefore, we included only studies on short‐acting fondaparinux for prevention of VTE. 
Moderate to high quality evidence shows that fondaparinux is effective for short‐term prevention of VTE when compared with placebo. It can reduce total VTE, DVT, total PE and symptomatic VTE and shows no difference in the number of deaths when compared with placebo. Low to moderate quality evidence shows that fondaparinux is effective for short‐term prevention of VTE when compared with LMWH. It can reduce total VTE and total DVT and shows no difference in the number of deaths when compared with LMWH. At the same time, however, fondaparinux increases major bleeding when compared with placebo and LMWH. Therefore, when fondaparinux is chosen for the prevention of VTE, attention should be paid to the person's bleeding risk. Most of the data were obtained from studies on patients undergoing orthopaedic surgery. Therefore, the conclusion pertains predominantly to these patients. Data on fondaparinux for other medical conditions such as internal, medical and abdominal surgery are sparse. 
Quality of evidence 
We downgraded the quality of the evidence because of small numbers of events causing imprecision, and differences and inconsistency between studies. We need additional high‐quality clinical trials to confirm the efficacy and safety of fondaparinux. 
