Yoga as a package of care versus standard care for schizophrenia
Review question 
Is yoga, delivered as part of a larger package of care, effective for people with schizophrenia compared with standard care? 
Background 
Yoga involves physical postures and breathing exercises to promote balance between mind and body. Yoga has now been widely adopted as a method of relaxation and exercise for reduction of stress and promotion of health and feelings of well‐being. Schizophrenia is a mental illness where people experience symptoms such as hearing voices that are not there, poor emotional response and social withdrawal. Schizophrenia often affects people for long periods of their life and is treated primarily by antipsychotic medications. However, these medications are not always fully effective and some research suggests that yoga as an add‐on treatment could be beneficial and help improve the quality of life of people with schizophrenia. Yoga can be combined with other therapies such as counselling or other forms of exercise into a 'package of care'. 
Study characteristics 
Only three short‐term studies (lasting eight weeks) that randomised people with schizophrenia to either receive sessions of yoga as a package of care or standard care could be included in this review. Yoga was combined with drama, music and dance in one study, with a motivational and feedback session in another study. The final study included in this review combined yoga with counselling and an interactive question and answer session.The relative contribution of yoga was not clearly outlined in these studies. We found these studies by electronic searching of the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's register in March 2017. All participants continued to receive their prescribed antipsychotic treatment during their trial. 
Key results 
Many important outcomes were not addressed by the studies in this review, including mental, physical and social functioning, adverse effects and economic considerations. There may have been some small changes in quality of life in favour of the yoga package but overall there was not enough good‐quality evidence in this review to make any robust claims that yoga as a package of care should be prescribed as an add‐on to standard care for schizophrenia. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence was limited and weak. The number of included studies was small, and only short‐term follow‐up for two outcomes were reported. Schizophrenia often is a long‐term illness and more, larger, and long‐term trials that focus on important outcomes are necessary. 
