Biologics or tofacitinib for rheumatoid arthritis not improved by treatment with methotrexate or other disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what are biologics? 
When people have rheumatoid arthritis (RA), their immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the joint lining. This makes their joints swollen, stiff and painful. If the inflammation goes on without treatment, joint damage and disability may result. Biologics and tofacitinib are medications that work by blocking different types of immune cells in the body that cause swelling and joint damage in people who have RA. 
This is an update of a review published in 2009. We have split the original review into four reviews based on patient population. We looked at trials done until June 2015 on the benefits and harms of biologics (abatacept, adalimumab, anakinra, certolizumab pegol, etanercept, golimumab, infliximab, rituximab and tocilizumab) and tofacitinib on people with RA who had not improved with treatment of methotrexate or other DMARDs. 
The review shows that in people with rheumatoid arthritis: 
Biologics in combination with methotrexate (MTX) or other DMARDs:
‐ probably improve signs and symptoms of RA (tender or swollen joints), function, the chances of RA remission (disappearance of symptoms) and slow down X‐ray disease progression. However, we are not sure of the importance of the amount of slowing of disease progression as seen on X‐rays. We downgraded our confidence in the results because of concerns about the inconsistency of some results. 
‐ probably slightly increase the number of serious adverse events, though there are few events. 
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Because of the lack of data, we are uncertain of the effect of biologics on the risk of cancer and withdrawals due to adverse events. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with RA taking biologics 
ACR50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other doctor/patient assessed aspects) 
Twenty‐four more people out of 100 experienced improvement in the symptoms of their rheumatoid arthritis with biologics + MTX/DMARD (24% absolute improvement). 
Thirty‐eight people out of 100 who were on biologic+ MTX experienced improvement compared to 14 people out of 100 who were on MTX/DMARD/placebo. 
Function improvement by Health Assessment Questionnaire (0 to 3 scale, lower score or more reduction = better function) 
People who took biologics + MTX/DMARDs rated their improvement in function to be 0.25 points more on a scale of 0 to 3 (‐8% absolute improvement). 
