Improving the implementation of healthy eating, physical activity and obesity prevention policies, practices or programmes in childcare services 
The review question This review aimed to look at the effects of strategies to improve the implementation (or correct undertaking) of policies, practices or programmes by childcare services that promote children's healthy eating, physical activity and/or obesity prevention. We wanted to determine the cost or cost‐effectiveness of providing implementation support, whether support strategies were associated with any adverse effects, and whether there was an impact on child nutrition, physical activity or weight status. We also looked at the implementation strategy acceptability, adoption, penetration, sustainability and appropriateness.  Background A number of childcare service‐based interventions have been found to be effective in improving child diet, increasing child physical activity and preventing excessive weight gain. Despite the existence of such evidence and best‐practice guideline recommendations for childcare services to implement these policies, practices or programmes, many childcare services fail to do so. Without proper implementation, children will not benefit from these child health‐directed policies, practices or programmes.  Study characteristics We identified 21 studies, 19 of which examined implementation strategies versus usual practice or minimal support control, and two that compared different types of implementation strategies. The studies sought to improve the implementation of policies, practices or programmes targeting healthy eating (six studies), physical activity (three studies) or both healthy eating and physical activity (twelve studies). Collectively, the 21 included studies included a total of 1945 childcare services and examined a range of implementation strategies including educational materials, educational meetings, audit and feedback, opinion leaders, small incentives or grants, educational outreach visits or academic detailing, reminders and tailored interventions. The strategies tested were only a small number of those that could be applied to improve implementation in this setting.  Search date The evidence is current to February 2019.  Key results 
Findings suggest that implementation support strategies can improve the implementation of physical activity policies, programmes or practices by childcare services or their staff (moderate‐certainty evidence), and do not appear to increase the risk of child injury (low‐certainty evidence). However, such approaches do not appear to have an impact on the diet, physical activity or weight status of children (low to moderate‐certainty evidence). None of the included studies reported information regarding implementation strategy costs or measures of cost‐effectiveness. The lack of consistent terminology in this area of research may have meant some relevant studies were not picked up in our search. 
