When trying to have a baby through assisted conception, is it better to transfer the embryo to the womb on day 3 or day 5? 
Background 
Many women and couples are unlikely to get pregnant and have a baby without medical treatment, due to infertility. Doctors have developed a variety of assisted reproductive technologies (ARTs), such as in vitro fertilisation (IVF), which involve the manipulation of eggs and sperm outside a woman's body, to try to increase her chances of getting pregnant. 
Typically, in assisted conception, doctors collect eggs from a woman and fertilise them in a laboratory, leading to the formation of embryos. An embryo is the early stage of human development. Doctors commonly transfer one or several embryos into a woman’s womb (uterus) at one of two stages of embryo development: either the cleavage stage, which is 2 or 3 days after egg collection when an embryo typically consists of between 2 and 128 cells; or the blastocyst stage, which is 5 or 6 days after egg collection when an embryo consists of between 70 and 100 cells. 
Until recently, doctors usually transferred embryos at the earlier, cleavage, stage. However, there has been a trend to transferring embryos at the later, blastocyst, stage. Researchers believe that only those embryos capable of surviving make it to the blastocyst stage; in other words, viable embryos will self‐select. So, it is thought that transferring embryos at the later stage may improve a woman's chances of becoming pregnant and having a healthy baby. 
Review question 
We wanted to find out if transferring embryos into a woman's womb at cleavage stage (day 2 to 3) or blastocyst stage (day 5 to 6) is better, in terms of: 
– number of babies born alive (live birth rate) following embryo transfers using only 'fresh' embryos; that is, embryos that have not been frozen and subsequently thawed; 
– total number of pregnancies achieved following embryo transfers using both 'fresh' and frozen then thawed embryos, collected from a single egg collection procedure (cumulative clinical pregnancy rate); 
– multiple pregnancy rate (when a woman is carrying more than one baby at a time);
‐ miscarriage rate (the loss of a pregnancy before the 20th week of development in the womb). 
Study characteristics 
We included 32 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned randomly to 2 or more treatment groups), which included 5821 women or couples. The evidence is current to October 2021. 
Key results 
– Transferring 'fresh' embryos at the blastocyst stage (day 5 to 6) may lead to more live births than when 'fresh' embryos are transferred at the cleavage stage (day 2 to 3). This suggests that if 31% of women achieve live birth after 'fresh' cleavage‐stage embryo transfer, between 32% and 41% would do so after 'fresh' blastocyst‐stage transfer. 
