Low pressure pneumoperitoneum versus standard pressure pneumoperitoneum in laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
Background 
The liver produces bile, which has many functions, including elimination of waste processed by the liver and digestion of fat. Bile is temporarily stored in the gallbladder (an organ situated underneath the liver) before it reaches the small bowel. Concretions in the gallbladder are called gallstones. Gallstones are present in about 5% to 25% of the adult Western population. Between 2% and 4% become symptomatic within a year. Symptoms include pain related to the gallbladder (biliary colic), inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis), obstruction to the flow of bile from the liver and gallbladder into the small bowel resulting in jaundice (yellowish discolouration of the body usually most prominently noticed in the white of the eye, which turns yellow), bile infection (cholangitis), and inflammation of the pancreas, an organ that secretes digestive juices and harbours the insulin‐secreting cells that maintain blood sugar level (pancreatitis). Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is currently considered the best treatment option for patients with symptomatic gallstones. This is generally performed by key‐hole surgery (laparoscopic cholecystectomy). Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is generally performed by inflating the tummy with carbon dioxide gas to permit the organs and structures within the tummy to be viewed so that the surgery can be performed. The gas pressure used to inflate the tummy is usually 12 mm Hg to 16 mm Hg (standard pressure). However, this causes alterations in the blood circulation and may be detrimental. To overcome this, lower pressure has been suggested as an alternative to standard pressure. However, using lower pressure may limit the surgeon's view of the organs and structures within the tummy, possibly resulting in inadvertent damage to the organs or structures. The review authors set out to determine whether it is preferable to perform laparoscopic cholecystectomy using low pressure or standard pressure. A systematic search of medical literature was performed to identify studies that provided information on the above question. The review authors obtained information from randomised trials only because such types of trials provide the best information if conducted well. Two review authors independently identified the trials and collected the information. 
