Iron therapy for improving physical and intellectual development in children under the age of three who are anaemic due to a lack of iron 
It has been suggested that a lack of iron in young children negatively affects their physical and intellectual development and therefore those who are anaemic should be treated. To assess the effects of iron therapy on psychomotor development and cognitive function in very young iron deficient anaemic children, we searched eight electronic databases in April 2013 for relevant studies. We looked for studies where children less than three years of age with iron deficiency anaemia were randomly assigned either to receive iron or iron plus vitamin C versus a placebo ('dummy pill') or vitamin C alone, and their developmental status or cognitive function was independently assessed by someone who did not know if they had received any iron. To make sure we had not missed any studies, we also searched reference lists, ran citation searches and contacted key experts in this area. 
Two review authors independently read through all the titles and abstracts retrieved from the searches to see if the studies were relevant. Where necessary, we looked at the full‐text version of the paper to check if it matched the inclusion criteria for our review. The same review authors independently extracted data from the studies for analysis and assessed the risk of bias in each of the studies. We analysed the data separately depending on whether assessments were performed within one month of beginning iron therapy or after one month. 
We found eight studies to include in the review. Six studies (involving 225 children) looked at the effects of iron therapy within 30 days of starting it and we were able to combine the results of five of them. Iron therapy did not appear to improve scores on either the Bayley Scale Psychomotor Development Index (PDI) or the Bayley Scale Mental Development Index (MDI). Two studies (160 children) considered the effects of iron therapy more than 30 days after starting it. One study found no benefit of iron therapy on the acquistion of skills as measured by the Denver Developmental Screening Test. The other study, however, found that scores on the Bayley scales PDI and MDI were significantly higher for the group receiving iron therapy. 
This review concludes that there is no convincing evidence that iron given by mouth or by injection will improve physical or intellectual development in young children who are anaemic because of a lack of iron within one month after start of treatment. It is unclear whether longer‐term treatment is beneficial for physical and intellectual development in these children. Large randomised controlled trials with long‐term follow‐up are needed in the future. 
