Promoting cough in critically‐ill adults and children to enable removal of the breathing tube (extubation) and breathing without the machine (weaning) 
Background and importance 
Critically‐ill adults and children who need assistance from machines (ventilators) to help them breathe may have difficulty coughing and clearing secretions. This can reduce their chances of successful removal of the breathing tube (extubation) and being able to breathe without the machine. Their respiratory muscles may be weak; they may have neuromuscular disorders, spinal cord injury, or restrictive lung disease, or be experiencing delirium, cognitive impairment or additive effects of sedation. Techniques such as building up the volume of air in the lungs over a number of breaths (breathstacking), manually‐ and mechanically‐assisted cough with an insufflation‐exsufflation (MI‐E) device can be used to encourage people to cough. The potential for these techniques to help critically‐ill adults and children to come off and stay off the ventilator is unclear. 
Review question 
Do techniques that promote cough in mechanically‐ventilated, critically‐ill adults and children in a high‐intensity care setting improve rates of successful extubation and weaning? 
Review purpose 
To look at controlled studies of techniques to promote cough in critically‐ill adults and children, to see if these techniques are useful for helping them come off and stay off the ventilator, and to determine if there are any associated harms. The complications we looked for included decreased or increased blood pressure, irregular heart rhythm, leakage of air from the lungs to the chest cavity, coughing up blood, and mucus plugging requiring a new breathing tube. 
Review findings 
We found two randomized controlled trials (95 adult participants) and one non‐randomized controlled study (17 children aged at least four weeks) conducted in Portugal, Canada, and the United States. We rated the two randomized trials as being of unclear quality and the non‐randomized study as being low quality. The largest randomized trial (75 participants) found a 83% success rate for extubation with mechanically‐ and manually‐assisted cough used in combination, compared with 53% in the control group (extubation success over 1½ times more likely) (very low‐quality evidence). The time spent on a ventilator was six days less in people using mechanically‐ and manually‐assisted cough (very low‐quality evidence). No participants died in this trial. 
Complications were reported by the two randomized trials. One person receiving mechanically‐assisted cough experienced a prolonged drop in blood pressure; another person receiving breathstacking and suctioning in addition to manually‐assisted cough experienced a prolonged rise in blood pressure. In one trial, following removal of the breathing tube, more people in the group not receiving mechanically‐assisted cough experienced secretion retention, a drop in oxygen levels, and needed the breathing tube to be reinserted (nine people compared with two, very low‐quality evidence). 
The non‐randomized study reported that the breathing tube could be removed in all of the six children in the group receiving interventions to assist with coughing. In this non‐randomized study, death was only reported for children receiving a cough‐promoting technique. One child died, but this was not thought to be related to the cough technique. This study did not report adverse events associated with assisted coughing. No included study evaluated a single cough‐promoting technique in isolation. The two randomized trials combined manually‐assisted cough with either mechanical assistance (MI‐E) or breathstacking, and the non‐randomized study used all three methods. 
