How accurate is the AD‐8 informant questionnaire for diagnosing dementia in all healthcare settings? 
Why is recognising dementia important? 
Many people are living with dementia but have never had the condition diagnosed. Not recognising dementia when it is present (a false negative result) may deny people access to social support, medications, and financial assistance. It also prevents the individual and their family from planning for the future. However, incorrectly diagnosing dementia when it is not present (a false positive result) can cause distress or fear and lead to additional investigations which can waste resources. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate the AD‐8 informant questionnaire is for detecting dementia in all healthcare settings. The researchers included 10 studies to answer this question, nine of which reported numerical information that could be used. 
What was studied in the review? 
The AD‐8 questionnaire includes eight ‘yes or no’ questions, to be answered by someone who knows the person under investigation; for example, a relative, carer or close friend (sometimes described as an informant). The questions ask about whether the informant has noticed a change in the individual’s memory and thinking abilities over the past years. A point is given for every item where they think the person’s abilities have changed. Higher scores occur when more changes are noted by the informant. The AD‐8 would not usually be used to make a final diagnosis of dementia, but it may help identify those who require further assessment. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included data from nine relevant studies, with a total of 4045 participants.
Seven of the studies used a score of two or more to indicate dementia. A score of two or more is the cut‐off recommended for the AD‐8. The results of these studies indicate that, in theory, if the AD‐8 were to be used to diagnose dementia in a group of 1000 people across all healthcare settings, of whom 280 (28%) have dementia, an estimated 517 would have an AD‐8 result indicating dementia is present and of these 259 (50%) will not have dementia. Of the 483 people with a result indicating that dementia is not present, 22 (5%) would be incorrectly classified as not having dementia 
It is possible that the AD‐8 may work differently in different settings, for example in hospital or General practice. In secondary care, the AD‐8 produces more false positive results, but fewer false negative results, than when it is used in community settings. We could not directly compare the performance of the AD‐8 in primary care as there was only one study from this setting. 
How reliable are the results of the studies in this review? 
In the included studies, the diagnosis of dementia was made by assessing all patients with a detailed clinical assessment. (In these studies, detailed clinical assessment was the gold standard we compared the AD‐8 to.) This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had dementia. However, there were some problems with how the studies were conducted. This may have resulted in the AD‐8 appearing more accurate than it really is. The numbers described are an average across studies in the review. However, as estimates from individual studies varied we cannot be sure that the AD‐8 will always produce these results. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Studies included in the review were conducted in Brazil, China, Japan, Singapore, Taiwan, the UK and USA. Studies included those attending primary and secondary care services, and populations of older adults living in the community. Five studies used the English‐language version of the AD‐8. The percentage of people with a final diagnosis of dementia was between 12% and 90% (an average of 38%). 
What are the implications of this review? 
The studies included in this review suggest the AD‐8 can identify adults who may have a diagnosis of dementia, who would benefit from specialist assessment and diagnosis. If the AD‐8 was used alone to diagnose dementia, the chance of wrongly diagnosing someone with dementia when they do not actually have it is high (50% of those whose AD‐8 score suggests they have dementia). This makes the AD‐8 an unsuitable single diagnostic test as it would potentially create anxiety and distress. The chance of missing a diagnosis of dementia is much lower (5% of those whose AD‐8 score suggests they do not have dementia when they actually have it). This group will miss out on opportunities to plan their future care and would not be eligible to be assessed for treatment with medicines. These findings should be considered when deciding whether or not to use the AD‐8 to test for dementia. 
