Exercise interventions for shoulder dysfunction in patients treated for head and neck cancer 
Both neck dissection and radiotherapy can cause morbidity to the shoulder joint. ‘Neck dissection’ is often used to prevent the spread of cancer to the lymph nodes of the neck, however this surgery can cause ‘shoulder syndrome’. This is defined as shoulder droop, ‘winged scapula’ (abnormal protruding of the shoulder blades), an inability to shrug and a dull, non‐localized pain that is made worse by movement. Shoulder problems can be present in as many as 50% to 100% of patients who have had a radical neck dissection. 
Physiotherapy interventions are used to reduce the impact of surgery on the shoulder and include a wide range of rehabilitative techniques. These include passive, active or active‐assisted range of motion exercises (the patient’s joint is moved either by an external force (e.g. device or person) or active muscle contraction or a combination); progressive resistance training (the patient exercises the muscle against an external force); and proprioceptive neuromuscular facilitation (PNF) exercises (a method used to improve strength, endurance and stretch of muscles). 
This review identified three randomized controlled trials involving 104 patients. Two studies compared progressive resistance training with standard care (usual treatment process). When we combined their results we found that progressive resistance training improved shoulder pain, shoulder disability, active range of motion for external rotation, passive range of motion for abduction, forward flexion, external rotation and horizontal abduction. The size of this improvement was small. The studies did not demonstrate a statistically significant difference in quality of life. Two non‐serious adverse events were reported in the progressive resistance training group and none in the standard care group. 
Another study compared a broad spectrum of techniques, including free active exercises, stretching, postural care, re‐education of scapulothoracic postural muscles, and strength of shoulder muscles, with routine postoperative physiotherapy care for three months following surgery. This study did not demonstrate a difference between the exercise group and the routine physiotherapy care group in shoulder function or quality of life. No adverse effects were reported. 
Further studies which apply other exercise interventions in head and neck cancer patients in the early postoperative period and after radiotherapy are needed, with long‐term follow‐up. 
