Treatments to manage rapid breathing in babies (transient tachypnoea of the newborn)
Review question 
Do drugs and other treatments in babies with abnormally rapid breathing (known as transient tachypnoea of the newborn) improve lung function and reduce the need for breathing support (i.e. mechanical ventilation) and/or duration of symptoms? 
Background 
Transient tachypnoea of the newborn is characterised by rapid breathing (more than 60 breaths per minute) and signs of respiratory distress (difficulty in breathing). It typically appears within the first two hours of life in babies born at or after 34 weeks' of pregnancy. Although transient tachypnoea of the newborn usually improves without treatment, it might be associated with wheezing in late childhood. This Cochrane overview reported and critically analysed the available evidence on the benefit and harms of different treatments for the management of transient tachypnoea of the newborn. 
Study characteristics 
We included six Cochrane Reviews. Four of them compared drugs (salbutamol, epinephrine, corticosteroid, and diuretics) with placebo, whilst the remaining two reviews assessed the effects of giving a lesser quantity of fluids and breathing (respiratory) support without insertion of a tube into the lungs. Salbutamol, epinephrine, and corticosteroids remove the excess fluid from the lungs, whereas a diuretic is a drug that promotes the secretion of lung fluid in the urine. 
The evidence is up‐to‐date as of July 2021.
Results 
Due to the very limited available evidence, we could not answer the question of our overview. Salbutamol may reduce the duration of rapid breathing compared to placebo. The studies on epinephrine and corticosteroids did not provide information on this outcome. The evidence is very uncertain for the effect of diuretics compared to placebo. The studies on giving a lesser quantity of fluids did not provide information on this outcome. 
The evidence is very uncertain regarding the effect of different types of respiratory support without the insertion of a tube into the lungs compared to oxygen or compared to each other on the duration of rapid breathing. We are uncertain about the effects of salbutamol, epinephrine, and corticosteroids in reducing the need for mechanical ventilation (use of a machine to help the patient breathe where a tube is inserted into the lungs). The studies on diuretics did not provide information on this outcome. We are uncertain about the effects of respiratory support without insertion of a tube into the lungs, and giving a lesser quantity of fluids in reducing the need for mechanical ventilation. 
Certainty of evidence 
The certainty of the evidence was low for salbutamol for duration of rapid breathing, and very low for all other outcomes and treatments. The studies either did not report information that we could use or produced findings in which we have very little confidence. These studies were small and used methods likely to introduce errors in their results. 
