Exercise before planned surgery for abdominal aortic aneurysm
Background 
The abdominal aorta is a major blood vessel in the body that carries blood from the heart to the major organs in the chest and abdomen. An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a balloon‐like bulge of the aorta. If an AAA grows to over 5.5 cm in diameter (the length from one side to the other), the chance of the AAA rupturing (bursting) is increased. Ruptured AAAs cause death unless surgery is carried out soon after the event to repair the rupture. Surgery is recommended for people with AAAs bigger than 5.5 cm in diameter or who have pain due to the AAA, to decrease the risk of rupture and death. Complications following planned surgery for AAA are common. Exercise before surgery for AAA could help people make a better recovery from surgery. At the moment we do not know if exercise before surgery will help people make a better recovery after AAA surgery. We found only a few trials which looked at whether exercise before AAA surgery helps people make a better recovery, so more trials are needed before we can be certain the exercise helps. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We searched the literature on 6 July 2020, and we found four trials that included 232 participants with AAA who were on a waiting list for AAA surgery. The trials randomly assigned participants into two groups, one with exercise before surgery and another with usual care (no exercise before surgery, participants maintained normal physical activity). The types of exercise included circuit training, moderate‐intensity continuous exercise and high‐intensity interval training. In three of the four trials, the participants in the exercise group were supervised by healthcare professionals in hospital when they did their exercise sessions. In the other trial, the first exercise session was supervised in hospital, and the following sessions were completed by the participants on their own in their own homes. The number and length of the exercise sessions was different in the trials. Some exercise sessions took place three times a week and some took place six times a week. In some trials participants exercised for one week and some trials' participants exercised for six weeks before their surgery. 
Limited information from a small number of trials showed that exercise before AAA surgery might slightly reduce heart and kidney complications after surgery, compared to no exercise (usual care) before AAA surgery. We are uncertain whether exercise before AAA surgery reduces death within 30 days of AAA surgery, lung complications, the need for further treatment or bleeding after surgery, compared to no exercise before AAA surgery. There was little or no difference between the exercise and usual care groups in length of intensive care unit stay, length of hospital stay and quality of life. None of the studies reported information for the number of days participants were on a ventilator and change in AAA size before and after exercise. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence is low or very low because of the way the studies were designed (risk of bias), and small number of people in the trials. Larger, well‐designed trials are needed in order to increase our confidence in any benefits of exercising before AAA surgery for reducing complications. 
