Treatment of hepatorenal syndrome
What is the aim of this Cochrane review? 
To find out the best treatment for decreased kidney function (hepatorenal syndrome) in people with liver cirrhosis (a form of advanced liver disease with scarring of the liver) with complications. The authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 25 randomised controlled trials (participants receive the treatment based on method similar to coin toss or lottery; this is to ensure that the people who receive the different treatments are similar in all aspects except the treatment, so that any differences in the results between the treatments can be attributed to the treatment rather than differences in the type of people who received the treatment). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane techniques, which allows comparison of two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques, that allow comparison of many treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network meta‐analysis' or 'multiple treatment comparisons'). The aim is to gather reliable evidence on the relative benefits and harms of the different treatments. 
Date of literature search December 2018 
Key messages Only two studies were conducted well. The remaining studies had one or more flaws. Therefore, there is high uncertainty in the results of the analysis. The authors could not recommend one treatment over another on the basis of risk of death, serious complications, percentage of people who developed any complication, percentage of participants who underwent liver transplantation (replacement of a diseased liver with a healthy one), or the number of other liver failure events. Health‐related quality of life was not reported in any of the trials. The number of complications of any severity was lower with albumin plus noradrenaline than albumin plus terlipressin. Recovery from hepatorenal syndrome may be lower with albumin plus midodrine plus octreotide and albumin alone than albumin plus terlipressin and albumin plus noradrenaline. 
Funding source was unclear in 18 studies. Industrial organisations funded two studies and the remaining five studies did not receive any funding from industrial organisations. 
