Can antibiotics as compared to placebo prevent postoperative wound infections after open groin hernia repair surgery? 
Background 
Groin hernia is a weakness in the abdominal wall in the groin area, through which soft tissue or organs can protrude. Groin hernias occur often and therefore groin hernia repair is one of the most frequently performed surgical operations worldwide. It is considered a 'clean' surgical technique with low postoperative wound infections rates and administration of antibiotics to patients undergoing open hernia repair surgery is therefore not generally recommended. Up to the 1990s, suture‐based hernia repair (herniorrhaphy) was the method of choice. From then onwards hernia repair with a synthetic mesh (hernioplasty) gained increasing popularity and the debate as to whether antibiotics are needed to prevent postoperative wound infections started again. 
Investigation 
We searched the literature (12 November 2019) for randomised controlled trials comparing antibiotics versus placebo to prevent wound infections after open groin hernia repair surgery. We included both suture‐based and mesh‐type surgical methods. We divided infections into superficial and deep wound infections. Several studies revealed infection rates that were higher than the expected 5% for clean surgery. Therefore, we divided studies into a group with low infection rates (less than 5%) and one with high infection rates (more than 5%). 
Study characteristics and key results 
We identified five suture‐based surgery studies and 22 mesh‐type surgery studies. The suture‐based studies were of very low methodological quality. The mesh‐type surgery studies were of low to moderate methodological quality. 
This review shows that antibiotics do not prevent the occurrence of any type of wound infections after suture‐based hernia repair. For mesh‐type hernia repair in a low infection risk environment, antibiotics probably make little to no difference in prevention of postoperative superficial wound infections. However, in a high infection risk environment it is uncertain whether antibiotics reduce the risk of superficial wound infection occurrence. 
For deep wound infections, we show that antibiotics probably make little or no difference in reducing the risk in both a low and high infection risk environment. 
