Asthma reliever inhalers (beta2‐agonists) used for exercise‐induced asthma and exercise‐induced bronchoconstriction 
Review question 
Physical exercise may trigger symptoms such as cough, chest tightness and shortness of breath in people with asthma that is not adequately treated (exercise‐induced asthma). Sometimes people who do not have asthma still experience asthma‐like symptoms during exercise; this is called exercise‐induced bronchoconstriction. We looked at both types of people in this review. The treatments we were interested in are called beta2‐agonists. These are drugs that are known to open up the airways (small tubes in the lungs), making it easier for people to breathe. Two kinds of beta2‐agonists are available: short‐acting (SABA, e.g. salbutamol and terbutaline) and long‐acting (LABA, e.g. formoterol and salmeterol). 
What evidence did we find? 
We found 53 trials consisting of 1139 participants. Forty‐eight studies used a cross‐over design, which meant that each person in the trial received two or more treatments－one or more active treatments, the beta‐agonist and a placebo in random order. The rest were parallel‐group trials, meaning that people received either the active treatment or a placebo. Most of the studies addressed the effect of a giving a single beta2‐agonist treatment before exercise and recorded the effect on lung function following exercise. Only eight focused on longer treatment－longer treatments would be needed to assess whether these treatments were harmful over the longer term. 
Results 
Studies in which people received a single administration of a beta‐agonist showed that FEV1 (a measure of lung function) fell significantly less for people taking SABA or LABA compared with placebo (mean difference (MD) ‐17.67%; 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐19.51% to ‐15.84%). Other lung function measures confirmed that beta2‐agonists were more beneficial compared with placebo. No significant difference in the number of side effects was noted in people taking SABA or LABA compared with people taking placebo. However, it is unlikely that people would be prescribed an inhaler for a single treatment, so we must consider longer‐term studies to get a true measure of the side effects that inhalers can cause. 
We found that included longer‐term studies showed that beta2‐agonists were helpful in terms of lung function for the first dose of treatment. However, studies that provided longer‐term treatment with SABA or LABA showed that over time, people built up a tolerance to the effects of treatments, and the beneficial effects lasted for shorter periods of time. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, we believe that the evidence was of low to moderate quality.
Conclusions 
This review shows that beta2‐agonists－both SABA and LABA－when administered in a single dose, are effective and safe in preventing the symptoms of EIA. Longer‐term administration of inhaled beta2‐agonists induces tolerance and lacks sufficient safety data. It is important to note that taking LABA without background inhaled steroids is considered unsafe and is not currently recommended in most of the clinical guidelines for asthma. We recommend that more studies are needed to determine whether it is safe to administer inhaled beta2‐agonists alone to people who experience asthma symptoms when exercising. 
