Screening for malignant melanoma (a type of skin cancer)
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of screening for malignant melanoma (a type of skin cancer) in people who were not suspected of having this cancer i.e. people with no suspicious mole or lesion (an area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin), compared with no screening. We included any type of screening (e.g. skin self‐examination, or by health professional) of any person not suspected of having malignant melanoma, irrelevant of age or gender. We included studies in people thought to have a high risk of developing malignant melanoma, but not those known to previously have had melanoma. 
Background 
Malignant melanoma is a skin tumour that can cause death by spreading to other parts of the body; the number of tumours is rising, while in many countries the risk of dying from the disease has not increased in a similar way. Screening for malignant melanoma is performed by visual self‐examination of the skin, or visual inspection by a doctor or other health professional. Screening has the potential to reduce deaths from melanoma. However, there are also potential harms from screening people without symptoms of melanoma, such as finding melanomas that would never have caused symptoms if they had remained undetected (i.e. overdiagnosis), unnecessary surgery, and possible psychological stress. It is important to establish the evidence base for screening. 
Study characteristics 
Two studies met our inclusion criteria. The first study, based in the US, aimed to investigate how to increase the frequency people undertake skin self‐examinations. All 1356 participants were asked to complete follow‐up telephone interviews at 2, 6, and 12 months after randomisation. The average age of participants was 53.2 years; 41.7% were men. 
The second study included 18 communities in Australia (63,035 adults) that were assigned to either have a three‐year community‐based melanoma screening programme or not. The study did not report information on the mean age or proportion of men and women in the whole study population, but the average age of those attending the skin screening clinics was 46.5 years and 51.5% were men. The study lasted three years; outcomes were measured at the screening clinics during this time. There was no further follow‐up. The purpose of the study was to investigate whether it was possible to conduct a larger trial, which was stopped by lack of funding. 
The first study was funded by the National Cancer Institute (US); the second, by Queensland Cancer Fund and Queensland Health (Australia). 
Key results 
There was no information from either study on the effects of screening on total deaths, overdiagnosis from screening, or participant quality of life. The following outcomes were also not reported: deaths from skin cancer and false‐positive/‐negative rates (i.e. diagnosing a skin lesion as a melanoma when it is not present/not recognising a melanoma when it is present). Thus, we do not know whether screening for malignant melanoma results in any benefit, or whether such a possible benefit would be outweighed by harms of screening. General adult population screening for malignant melanoma is not supported or refuted by evidence from well‐designed trials up to May 2018 and therefore does not fulfil accepted criteria for implementing screening programmes. 
Reliability of the evidence 
We could not assess the reliability of the evidence for our primary outcomes as they were not assessed. 
