Nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy for early stage cervical cancer
The issue Radical hysterectomy is one of the standard treatments for early stage cervical cancer. In this operation, the uterus (womb), cervix, upper vagina and tissues surrounding the cervix and upper vagina are removed. Because of the extent of this operation, women may experience problems with urinating which impacts on quality of life. 
The aim of the review Nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy is a modified radical hysterectomy technique developed to preserve pelvic nerves in order to prevent bladder dysfunction. However, there is the potential that the operation may reduce survival and increase the chance of cancer recurring. We searched the scientific databases for articles published to May 2018 and included the studies in which women were randomly allocated to either standard operation or nerve‐sparing operation. 
What are the main findings? We found four small studies that compared nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy versus standard radical hysterectomy. None of the included studies reported data on overall survival and rate of intermittent self‐catheterisation (procedure in which patient periodically inserts a small tube (catheter) through the urethra into the bladder to empty it of urine) over one month following surgery. We could not assess the relative effect of these two operations on quality of life due to inconsistent data reported. Women undergoing nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy had better voiding (a technique of bladder training in which the woman is instructed to urinate according to pre‐determined schedules) functions following surgery than those undergoing standard radical hysterectomy. We found no evidence that women undergoing nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy were more likely to have adverse consequences of surgery or relapse of their cancer. The certainty of the evidence is therefore low or very low. 
What are the conclusions? Nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy may reduce the chance of bladder dysfunction compared to standard radical hysterectomy. However, the certainty of this evidence is low and further studies have the potential to better inform this outcome. We are very uncertain as to whether nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy is safe in terms of cancer survival outcomes. The evidence of cancer recurrence was of very low‐certainty, there were no long term data available regarding risk of death from cancer or other causes. High‐quality international studies involving many women would be needed to tell us whether nerve‐sparing radical hysterectomy is beneficial in terms of survival for women with early stage cervical cancer, since risk of recurrence in this group are low. 
