Physical therapies for postural abnormalities in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of physical therapies that can help the postural abnormalities in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic disease that causes problems in some organs of the body, especially in the lungs. Recently, it has been noticed that postural abnormalities may happen because of the disease progression. Some physical therapies that promote the stretching and strengthening of the muscles connected to the spine may help improving the pain and quality of life in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 19 March 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included two trials in this review with 50 participants aged between 17 and 58 years and diagnosed with cystic fibrosis and postural abnormalities. The trials compared manual therapy (all physical therapies that promote relaxation of the muscles, as well as mobilization of the spine, such as massage, spinal mobilization) with usual care (the normal treatment they used to receive). Participants were placed in each treatment group at random. One trial was in hospital inpatients and lasted 20 days and the second was in outpatients and lasted three months. Most of the outcomes were reported in both trials. 
Key results 
The trials did not find any difference between manual therapy and usual care for changes in trunk deformity. We could not combine results for quality of life or pain scores because they were too different. We were not able to find a difference between manual therapy and usual care for lung function. Only one trial (15 participants) measured the change in walked distance which seemed to favour manual therapy over usual care, but this was not clear because there were a large range of results. One trial reported that participants from the manual therapy group enjoyed the type of the treatment they received and that adherence was also high. None of the trials reported any side effects. 
