Skin preparation for preventing infection following caesarean section
This review is an update of a review that was first published in 2012, and updated in 2014 and 2018. 
What is the issue? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out what methods of skin preparation before caesarean section were most effective in preventing infection after the operation. We collected and analysed all studies that assessed the effectiveness of antiseptics used to prepare the skin before making an incision (or cut) for the caesarean section. We only included analysis of preparations that were used to prepare the surgical site on the abdomen before caesarean section; we did not look at handwashing by the surgical team, or bathing the mother. 
Why is this important?Infections of surgical incisions are the third most frequently reported hospital‐acquired infections. Women who give birth by caesarean section are exposed to infection from germs already present on the mother's own skin, or from external sources. The risk of infection following a caesarean section can be 10 times that of vaginal birth. Therefore, preventing infection by properly preparing the skin before the incision is made is an important part of the overall care given to women prior to caesarean birth. An antiseptic is a substance applied to remove bacteria that can cause harm to the mother or baby when they multiply. Antiseptics include iodine or povidone iodine, alcohol, chlorhexidine, and parachlorometaxylenol. They can be applied as liquids or powders, scrubs, paints, swabs, or on impregnated 'drapes' that stick to the skin, which the surgeon then cuts through. Non‐impregnated drapes can also be applied, once the skin has been scrubbed or swabbed, with the aim of reducing the spread of any remaining bacteria during surgery. It is important to know if some of these antiseptics or methods work better than others. 
What evidence did we find? This updated review included 13 trials with 6938 women. Six trials were conducted in the USA; the remaining trials were in Nigeria, South Africa, France, Denmark, Indonesia, India and Egypt. The review looked at what was best for women and babies when it came to important outcomes including: infection of the site where the surgeon cut the woman to perform the caesarean section; inflammation of the lining of the womb (metritis and endometritis); how long the woman stayed in hospital; and any other adverse effects, such as irritation of the woman's skin, or any reported impact on the baby. Not all of the 13 trials explored all of these outcomes, and the evidence for each outcome was usually based on results from far fewer than 6938 women. 
