Single dose oral ibuprofen plus caffeine for acute postoperative pain in adults
Acute pain is often felt soon after injury. Most people who have surgery have moderate or severe pain afterwards. Painkillers (analgesics) are tested in people with pain, often following the removal of wisdom teeth. This pain is usually treated with painkillers taken by mouth. Results can be applied to other forms of acute pain. 
A series of Cochrane reviews looks at how good painkillers are. We know that in some circumstances combining different painkillers in the same tablet or taking separate tablets at the same time gives good pain relief to more people than either painkiller alone. This is particularly true using a combination of two painkillers that work by different mechanisms. This review looked at how good the combination of ibuprofen and caffeine was in relieving moderate or severe pain after surgery. 
We searched up to 1 February 2015 and found four studies with a maximum of 334 participants with information for analysis. Ibuprofen 200 mg plus caffeine 100 mg provided effective pain relief for 6 in 10 (59%) participants, compared with 1 in 10 (11%) participants with placebo (moderate quality evidence). 
Adverse events occurred at similar rates with the ibuprofen plus caffeine combination and placebo in these single dose studies (low quality evidence). No serious adverse events or withdrawals due to adverse events occurred with the combination. 
The combination of ibuprofen 200 mg + caffeine 100 mg is not commonly available, but can probably be achieved by taking a single 200 mg ibuprofen tablet with a cup of modestly strong coffee. Common sources of caffeine include not only caffeine tablets (100 mg is sufficient), but coffee (100 mg to 150 mg per mug or cup with a volume of about 240 mL or 8 fl oz, or a double espresso), but also tea (75 mg per mug), cola drinks (up to 40 mg per drink), energy drinks (approximately 80 mg per drink), plain chocolate (up to 50 mg per bar), and caffeine tablets (100 mg per tablet). 
Some people may get good levels of pain relief with a lower dose of ibuprofen when the ibuprofen is combined with caffeine. 
