Sealants for preventing tooth decay in permanent teeth
Review question 
Can sealants prevent tooth decay in permanent teeth and what are the effects of different types of sealants? 
Background 
Although children and adolescents have healthier teeth than in the past, tooth decay is a problem in some people and places. Most tooth decay in young people occurs on the biting surfaces of back teeth. Tooth decay prevention includes brushing, fluoride supplements (such as tablets), fluoride directly applied to the teeth and dental sealants. Dental sealants aim to prevent bacteria growth that promote tooth decay in grooves of back teeth. Sealants are applied by dentists or dental care team members. The main types used are resin‐based sealants and glass ionomer cements. 
Study characteristics 
We included 38 studies that involved 7924 young people (aged 5 to 16 years) among whom a variety of dental sealants was used to prevent tooth decay. Young people in the studies represented the general population. 
The review includes studies available from a search of the literature up to 3 August 2016. We assessed all studies as being at high risk of bias because the dental professionals who are measuring the outcomes can see whether or not sealant has been used. 
Key results 
Fifteen studies compared resin‐based sealants to no sealants and found that children who had sealant applied to their back teeth were less likely to have tooth decay in their back teeth than children with no sealant. We were able to combine data from seven of these studies (including two published since 2010), which involved children who were aged from 5 to 10 years when the sealants were applied. This showed that if 40% of back teeth develop decay over 24 months, using sealant reduces this to 6%. Similar benefits for resin‐based sealants were shown up to four years. The effect appeared to persist when measured up to nine years, but there was less evidence. 
Results were inconclusive when glass ionomer‐based sealant was compared with no sealant and when one type of sealant material was compared with another. 
