Structured telephone support and non‐invasive telemonitoring in the management of people with heart failure 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of structured telephone support and non‐invasive telemonitoring in the management of people with heart failure. We found 41 studies. Two of the included studies trialled both structured telephone support and telemonitoring compared to usual care, therefore 43 comparisons are evident. The evidence is current to January 2015. 
Background 
In the context of limited health funding and a rapidly expanding population of older people, it is increasingly difficult for healthcare systems to provide high‐quality care to those with heart failure. Multidisciplinary specialist heart failure clinics are available only to a minority of people and do not have the capacity for frequent patient review. Patients may be unwilling or unable to make frequent clinic attendance due to cost, difficulty with transport or disability and frailty. Structured telephone support and telemonitoring can provide specialised heart failure care to a large number of people with limited access to healthcare services. 
Study characteristics 
We include 41 full‐text peer‐reviewed studies of either structured telephone support or home telemonitoring in this review. Twenty‐five studies evaluate structured telephone support (eight new studies, plus one previously included study now classified as telemonitoring; total of 9332 participants), 18 evaluated telemonitoring (nine new studies; total of 3860 participants) and two studies evaluated both interventions (included in listed counts). 
Key results 
This review demonstrates that supporting people with heart failure at home using information technology can reduce the rates of death and heart failure‐related hospitalisation. It can improve people's quality of life and knowledge about heart failure and self care. Most patients, even those who are elderly, learn to use the technology easily and are satisfied with these interventions. 
