Fortification of salt with iron and iodine compared to salt fortified with iodine only for improving iron and iodine status 
Key messages 
Compared to iodised salt, double‐fortified salt (salt fortified with iron and iodine) may improve some measures of iron and iodine nutrition, such as haemoglobin (i.e. the substance that gives red blood cells their colour) concentrations and body iron stores. However, it may reduce urinary iodine concentration and may make little or no difference to ferritin (i.e. iron‐storage protein) concentrations and transferrin receptor (i.e. protein that affects the uptake of iron) concentrations. It probably also reduces the prevalence of anaemia (lack of haemoglobin), and may reduce the prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia (lack of iron), compared to iodised salt.  
Well‐designed studies that assess the effects of double‐fortified salt within non‐research populations (i.e. real‐life settings), and that measure salt intake, including changes in salt consumption, are needed.  
What is iron deficiency? 
Almost two billion people experience a deficiency in a vitamin or mineral (or both), with women and children in resource‐limited settings most frequently affected. Iron‐related deficiencies are among the most common deficiencies in the world and have important short‐ and long‐term health consequences. Interventions to provide iron frequently include iron supplementation, including iron tablets, powders, or syrups. However, these have known barriers, and food fortification strategies may be attractive alternatives. Salt is one of few universally consumed food vehicles. Iodised salt is fortified to provide 100% of a person's iodine requirements and is highly effective. Double‐fortified salt was developed to provide 30% of a person's daily dietary iron requirement and 100% of their iodine requirement. In some resource‐limited settings, where iron‐related deficiencies are a common problem, there has been interest in making double‐fortified salt more available to the public. This calls for further understanding of the effect of double‐fortified salt on related outcomes.  
What did we want to find out? 
If double‐fortified salt is better than salt fortified with iodine alone for improving measures of iron and iodine‐related nutrition, in particular:  
‐ haemoglobin concentration;
‐ urinary iodine concentration;
‐ blood pressure;
‐ ferritin concentration;
‐ transferrin receptor concentration;
‐ prevalence of anaemia;
‐ prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia.
What did we do? 
We looked for studies that provided double‐fortified salt to one group of participants and iodised salt to another. We compared their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sample size.  
What did we find? 
We identified 18 studies, involving over 8800 individuals from five countries; 13 studies were conducted in India. In 13 studies the intervention lasted between 6 and 12 months; in two studies it lasted 3 months, and in single studies it lasted for 18 months, 24 months, or the duration was unclear. Nine studies were conducted in children and adolescents (5 to 17 years), four in adults (18 years and older), and five included multiple age groups. All studies compared double‐fortified salt to iodised salt. Most studies were funded by non‐profit organisations, university grants or academic institutes. In four studies, double‐fortified salt was provided by a commercial organisation, and in three studies the funding source unclear.  
Compared to iodised salt, double‐fortified salt may improve haemoglobin concentration and body iron stores slightly, and probably reduces the prevalence of anaemia by 21%. However, double‐fortified salt may also reduce urinary iodine concentration compared to iodised salt and may make little or no difference in ferritin and transferrin receptor concentration. Double‐fortified salt may reduce the prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia by 65%, compared to iodised salt, although this conclusion is uncertain because of some problems with the way the studies were conducted. Very few studies measured zinc protoporphyrin concentration, adverse effects, prevalence of goitre and salt intake. One study measured serum iron concentration.  
No studies measured blood pressure or hepcidin concentration. 
What are the limitations of the evidence?  
We have relatively low confidence in the evidence for the outcomes: haemoglobin, urinary iodine, ferritin, and transferrin receptor concentration, and prevalence of iron deficiency anaemia. Not all studies provided data about all outcomes of interest; studies delivered the intervention differently; and studies were small, both in number and size. 
For the prevalence of anaemia, we are moderately confident in the evidence because studies used different ways of delivering the intervention. 
