Pedicle screw fixation methods for traumatic fractures of the thoracic and lumbar spine 
Thoracic and lumbar spine fractures are the most common injuries of the spine. An exaggerated curvature (kyphosis) at the end of treatment may predispose to later back pain and a poor functional outcome. If the nerve root or spinal cord is damaged, partial or complete loss of sensory and motor function in the legs, and urinary and faecal incontinence may result. Treatment depends on the individual characteristics of the fracture, with options including bed rest alone, closed reduction of the fracture and functional bracing, and surgery involving open reduction and internal fixation of the fracture. Surgery frequently involves posterior pedicle screw fixation, where typically screws are placed in the 'pedicle' parts of the vertebrae (bones of the spine) adjacent to the damaged vertebrae and connected by rods to hold the bones in place and stabilise the fracture while it heals. This review examined the evidence for the different types of pedicle screw fixation and for additional support such as fusion, where bone graft (usually taken from bone near the hip region of the patient) or substitute is added to the spine. The latter aims to reduce movement of the injured segment and any associated pain. 
The review authors found eight trials that included a total of 448 patients with thoracic and lumbar spine fractures. These trials were small and were at risk of bias that could have affected their findings. Five comparisons of different methods of pedicle screw fixation were tested by the included trials. For each comparison, no differences were found in function, activities of daily living, or pain in the two treatment groups. Aside from one person, who required further surgery to treat a temporary decline in neurological status, no report described any trial participant who showed a permanent decline in neurological status. Notably, two of the three trials testing fusion reported that a quarter to two thirds of participants had long‐term pain at the donor site where the bone graft had been taken. 
The review authors concluded that evidence is insufficient to inform on the selection of different methods of pedicle screw fixation or on the use of fusion with pedicle screw fixation. 
