Carbohydrate supplementation of human milk to promote growth in preterm infants
Review question 
Does addition of extra carbohydrate to human milk fed to preterm infants compared with no additional carbohydrate improve growth, body fat, obesity, heart problems, high blood sugar, and brain development without causing significant side effects? 
Background 
Not enough carbohydrate intake in preterm infants may result in poor growth and development. Breast milk is the best food for preterm infants, but feeding them only breast milk may be nutritionally inadequate. Adding carbohydrate to breast milk may help. However, not enough data can be found on assessing the benefits and harms of adding carbohydrate to breast milk to promote growth in preterm infants. 
Study characteristics 
We found one trial involving 75 preterm infants with very low‐quality evidence on the effects of adding extra prebiotics (a type of carbohydrate) to human milk in preterm infants. A second publication by the same study authors reported different methods regarding blinding and randomisation of the trial. Study authors confirmed that these publications describe the same trial but have not yet clarified which method is accurate. We were unable to reproduce the analyses from the data presented. The search is up to date as of August 2019. 
Key results 
Prebiotic carbohydrate supplementation increased the mean weight of preterm infants at day 30 and resulted in a shorter hospital stay compared with control. No evidence shows a clear difference in risk of feeding intolerance or necrotising enterocolitis between the prebiotic‐supplemented and unsupplemented groups. No other data were available to show the effects of adding extra carbohydrate to human milk on short‐ and long‐term growth, body fat, obesity, brain development, and heart problems. 
Conclusions 
Evidence on the short‐ and long‐term effects of adding extra carbohydrate to human milk in preterm infants is lacking. This systematic review found very low‐quality evidence on the effects of adding prebiotic carbohydrate to human milk in preterm infants, along with uncertainties about methods and analysis. The single trial included a small sample of Iranian preterm infants, and so the evidence may be considered as not generalisable. However, the outcomes assessed are common to all preterm infants, and the trial shows that adding prebiotic carbohydrate to human milk is possible in developing countries. Further research is needed to assess the benefits and harms of different types and concentrations of carbohydrate supplementation for preterm infants fed human milk. Currently, digestible carbohydrate supplementation in preterm infants is provided as a component of multi‐nutrient human milk fortification. 
