Repeat doses of prenatal corticosteroids for women at risk of preterm birth for improving health outcomes in their babies 
What is the issue? 
Infants born preterm (before 37 weeks' of pregnancy) are at risk of difficulty breathing and lung disease because their lungs are not fully developed. One course of prenatal (administered during pregnancy) corticosteroids, given to women who may give birth early, helps develop the baby's lungs and improves survival. This benefit does not last beyond seven days so those babies born preterm more than seven days after the course of corticosteroid are still at risk of difficulty breathing and lung disease. This review details the evidence available for the benefits and harms of giving a further course(s) of corticosteroids with the aim of extending the benefits on lung development and breathing. 
Why is this important? 
Preterm birth is common, affecting approximately one in nine babies worldwide. In addition to breathing difficulties after birth, preterm babies who survive the early weeks after birth are at risk of long‐term disabilities such as delays in their development, epilepsy (fits) and cerebral palsy (weakness and problems in the muscles that affects movement and co‐ordination). 
Corticosteroid medications are anti‐inflammatory and suppress growth and the production of cortisol (stress hormone) from the adrenal gland. As a result, repeat prenatal corticosteroid treatment could increase the risk of infection and suppress production of cortisol for the mother and her baby, and reduce the baby's growth. It is, therefore, important that both the benefits and potential negative effects of repeat courses of corticosteroids are understood to allow the best treatment decisions to be made in clinical practice. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 27 January 2021 and identified 11 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), involving 4895 women and their 5975 babies who remained at risk of early birth more than seven days after an initial course of corticosteroids between 23 and 34 weeks' gestation at trial enrolment. 
Overall, these trials showed that repeat dose(s) of prenatal corticosteroids reduced the risk of the baby having breathing difficulties, including severe difficulties, and serious health problems in the first few weeks after birth (moderate to high quality and low risk of bias evidence). There was probably no effect on chronic lung disease (usually defined by persistent breathing difficulty and need for oxygen treatment at the age they would have reached 36 weeks of pregnancy). The data available could not confirm if there was an increase, decrease or no change in the combination of fetal or newborn or infant death under one year of age, severe bleeding in the brain or severe bowel inflammation. 
For the women, there was no increase in the likelihood of a caesarean birth but it was uncertain if there was an increase or decrease in maternal death, maternal infection, risk of maternal side effects or the need to stop treatment due to side effects. No trials reported data for breastfeeding at the time of leaving hospital or risk of the woman being admitted to the intensive care unit. 
