Systemic treatments (tablets or injections) taken for metastatic melanoma (expanded from its starting point to other parts of the body) 
Background 
Melanoma is the most dangerous common skin cancer. Early diagnosis offers the best chance of cure. People affected by early stage melanoma represent about 70% to 80% of all those with melanoma and can be treated by surgical removal of the original tumour (known as the primary tumour). However, when a primary melanoma is detected at a later stage, there is a risk of disease spreading to the nearest lymph nodes (glands that are part of the body's immune system) and distant sites, such as the lungs, liver, bone and brain. In this case, systemic chemotherapy (giving drugs that kill cells throughout the body) and biochemotherapy (chemotherapy combined with substances that can improve the immune response, known as immunostimulating cytokines, such as interleukin‐2 and interferon‐alpha) have been the main treatments for over three decades. However, only few people experience spontaneous (i.e. not resulting from therapy) regression of the primary tumour. 
Over the past few years, new classes of drugs have been used with promising results. We aimed to look at how new systemic treatments compare with older therapies, as well as with each other, in terms of survival, acceptability, tumour response, and quality of life. We assessed these outcomes in people with metastatic melanoma (AJCC TNM stage IV). 
Review question 
We aimed to assess the effects of systemic treatments for people with metastatic cutaneous melanoma (melanoma of skin tissue). We searched for relevant trials up to October 2017 and included 122 studies. 
We summarised the results of melanoma treatments (delivered systemically), such as conventional chemotherapy, biochemotherapy, as well as newer drug classes, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti‐CTLA4 and anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies, which increase the anti‐tumour activity of the immune system), small‐molecule targeted drugs (BRAF inhibitors, which are used only for melanomas containing specific BRAF gene mutations that promote tumour progression, and MEK inhibitors, which work on the same molecular pathway), and anti‐angiogenic drugs (which reduce blood supply to cancer cells). We compared these treatments with conventional chemotherapy. 
Study characteristics 
All 122 studies were randomised controlled trials that enrolled participants with metastatic cutaneous melanoma and compared different systemic treatments (28,561 participants). Study participants were adults of either sex, with a mean age of 57.5 years. There were 29 studies that included people whose cancer had spread to the brain, which is important because the detection and treatment of brain metastases often present unique challenges. Most treatments were compared with chemotherapy, and all studies were set in hospitals. Frequently, the pharmaceutical company who produced a tested drug also sponsored the study in which it was assessed, especially in the case of new classes of drugs, such as immune checkpoint inhibitors and small‐molecule targeted drugs. 
Key results 
Compared to conventional chemotherapy, several treatments can improve the progression‐free survival of people with metastatic melanoma. These include biochemotherapy (high‐quality evidence), anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies plus chemotherapy (moderate‐quality evidence), anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies (moderate‐quality evidence), BRAF inhibitors (high‐quality evidence), MEK inhibitors (moderate‐quality evidence), and anti‐angiogenic drugs (moderate‐quality evidence). However, no difference was found for use of a combination of several chemotherapy agents (polychemotherapy) (high‐quality evidence). Moreover, the combination of immune checkpoint inhibitors (anti‐PD1 plus anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies) performed better than anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies alone (high‐quality evidence), but anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies performed better than anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies (high‐quality evidence). The combination of small‐molecule inhibitors (BRAF plus MEK inhibitors) lead to better results than BRAF inhibitors alone (moderate‐quality evidence), for people with melanoma that has a BRAF gene change . 
Anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies improved patients' overall survival compared with either standard chemotherapy (high‐quality evidence) or anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies (high‐quality evidence). Compared to chemotherapy alone, both BRAF inhibitors (high‐quality evidence), and anti‐angiogenic agents combined with chemotherapy (moderate‐quality evidence) also prolong overall survival, but anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies plus chemotherapy (low‐quality evidence), MEK inhibitors (low‐quality evidence), combined multiple chemotherapeutic agents (polychemotherapy) (high‐quality evidence), or biochemotherapy (high‐quality evidence) did not lead to significantly improved overall survival. WE also found that the combination of small‐molecule inhibitors performed better than BRAF inhibitors alone (high‐quality evidence). No data on overall survival were available for anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies alone compared with the combination of anti‐CTLA4 plus anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies. 
In terms of toxicity (defined as occurrence of high‐grade side effects), biochemotherapy (high‐quality evidence), anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies (moderate‐quality evidence), polychemotherapy (moderate‐quality evidence), and MEK inhibitors (moderate‐quality evidence) were associated with worse toxicity compared to chemotherapy. In contrast, anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies appear to be better tolerated than chemotherapy alone. Anti‐PD1 monoclonal antibodies also appeared to be better tolerated than anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies. However, evidence quality supporting these findings was assessed as low. Furthermore, the frequency of side effects did not differ significantly between anti‐PD1 plus anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies versus anti‐CTLA4 monoclonal antibodies alone (low‐quality evidence), anti‐angiogenic drugs combined with chemotherapy versus chemotherapy (low‐quality evidence), BRAF inhibitors versus chemotherapy (low‐quality evidence), and BRAF plus MEK inhibitors versus BRAF inhibitors alone (moderate‐quality evidence). 
