Back schools for acute and subacute non‐specific low‐back pain
Review question 
The aim of the review was to assess the effectiveness of back schools on pain, disability, work status and adverse events compared to another treatment, a placebo (sham treatment) or no treatment for acute and subacute non‐specific low‐back pain. 
Background 
Low‐back pain is a burden in Western societies and causes high costs in terms of healthcare costs and loss of productivity. It is a common disorder that affects 12% to 30% of the population everyday. Back school is a therapeutic programme which includes both education and exercise, and is given to groups of participants and supervised by a healthcare provider. It was introduced in Sweden in 1969 and the content and length of back schools seem now to vary widely. 
The target population of this review were people with acute and subacute (between acute and chronic) non‐specific low‐back pain. We defined non‐specific low‐back pain as pain localised below the scapulae (shoulder blade) and above the cleft of the buttocks without any specific cause detectable (e.g. infection, neoplasm, metastasis, osteoporosis, rheumatoid arthritis, fracture or inflammatory process). Acute and subacute pain means that the pain did not last more than six and 12 weeks, respectively. Our primary outcomes were pain and disability, and our secondary outcomes were work status and adverse events. 
Study characteristics 
We included four studies in this review, which we included in the previous version of this review, which means that we did not identify any new relevant studies for inclusion in this update. The treatment comparisons were too dissimilar to be pooled and half of the studies were at high risk of bias. The quality of the evidence was very low for all outcomes. 
One study compared back school with a placebo (sham treatment) and found no difference between groups for pain at short‐term follow‐up. Concerning work status, people in the back school group had a significantly shorter duration of sick‐leave than people in the placebo group at short‐term follow‐up. 
Four studies compared back school with another treatment (physical therapies, myofascial therapy, joint manipulations, advice). Overall, there were no differences between groups for pain, disability, work status and adverse events at any time of follow‐up. Only one study showed that back school added to a back care programme was more effective than back school alone for disability at short‐term follow‐up. 
Key results 
The included studies are insufficient to clearly answer our question and the inclusion of other well‐designed studies is very likely to change the conclusions. However, back schools do not seem to be a treatment widely used nowadays for people with acute and subacute non‐specific low‐back pain and are not endorsed by guidelines. 
