Muscle stimulation for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for applying electrical stimulation to the thigh muscles of people with COPD (a long‐term lung condition characterised by cough, sputum production (fluids from the lungs, i.e. phlegm) and difficulty breathing). We looked at studies that used two groups; one receiving electrical stimulation by placing conductive pads over the muscle, the other receiving usual medical care. We also looked at studies that added electrical stimulation to an exercise programme and compared the results with a group that only undertook the exercise programme. 
The studies measured muscle strength and endurance (how long the muscle could work), muscle size, exercise capacity, shortness of breath, leg fatigue and health‐related quality of life (HRQoL; a measure of a person's satisfaction with their life and health). We also looked to see if applying electrical stimulation to the muscles in the thigh caused any unwanted effects. 
Background 
People with COPD find exercise difficult and feel breathless. But exercise such as frequent brisk walking or stationary cycling reduces breathing difficulties and improves the ability to exercise. One way that exercise helps is by improving the condition (how well they work) of the thigh muscles. 
However, for some people with COPD, exercising at a level that is high enough to improve the condition of the thigh muscles is difficult because they experience severe shortness of breath with exercise. In these people, it may be that using an electrical current to stimulate the thigh muscles will help to improve their condition. Because the electrical stimulation is applied to only a few muscles (in contrast to exercise, which involves several muscles), electrical stimulation can be completed without causing much shortness of breath. If electrical stimulation can improve the condition of the leg muscles, it might be a useful rehabilitation approach. 
