Ropinirole for levodopa‐induced complications in Parkinson's disease
In the later stages of Parkinson's disease, side effects occur because of the use of levodopa treatment. These consist of involuntary writhing movements (dyskinesia), painful cramps in the legs (dystonia) and a shortened response to each dose referred to as 'end‐of‐dose deterioration' or the 'wearing‐off effect'. Dopamine agonist drugs act by mimicking levodopa in the brain, but they do not cause these long‐term treatment complications. For this reason, dopamine agonists have for some years been added once these problems develop in the hope of improving them. Ropinirole is a new dopamine agonist recently licensed in the UK for the treatment of early and later Parkinson's disease. In this review, we will examine the trials performed with this drug to see how effective it is and what side effects it causes. 
Three trials have compared ropinirole with an inactive placebo in 263 patients in the later stages of Parkinson's disease. Two studies were relatively small, were conducted over the short term (12 weeks), and used relatively low doses of ropinirole (maximum allowed 8 and 10 mg/d) in a twice daily administration regime. For these reasons, the results of these trials have not been included in a statistical overview. The other study was medium term (26 weeks) and used ropinirole doses in line with the current UK licensed maximum (24 mg/d) in a three times a day regime. The conclusions of this review are based on this single trial and thus should be viewed with some caution. 
No clear difference in the time patients spent in the immobile off state was found between ropinirole and placebo. However, this was probably due to there being too few patients in the trial. Measurements of physical difficulties and problems with activities of daily living (such as bathing, shopping, etc.) were poor in these studies with incomplete information available. Levodopa dose reduction was greater with ropinirole than placebo by 180 mg/d. However, dyskinesia was increased in those who received ropinirole (2.9 times more common with ropinirole than placebo). No other differences in side effects or withdrawals from treatment were found. 
Ropinirole reduces levodopa dose but at the expense of increased dyskinetic side effects. No clear effect on off time reduction was found in this single trial. Side effects were similar with ropinirole and placebo. These conclusions apply to short and medium term treatment, up to 26 weeks. Further longer term trials are required, with measurements of quality of life and costs, and also studies to compare the newer with the older dopamine agonists. 
