Behavioural and cognitive‐behavioural therapies for treating aggressive behaviour in people with intellectual disabilities 
Review question  
This review is an update of a previous version.The aim of the review was to find out whether behavioural and cognitive‐behavioural therapies are more effective in reducing aggressive behaviour in adults and children with intellectual disabilities, compared to a control group that received no intervention. 
Background  
Challenging behaviour is a significant cause of social exclusion for people with intellectual disabilities. There is no firm evidence about which therapies are most helpful in reducing aggressive behaviour in people with intellectual disabilities. 
Study characteristics  
We searched a number of electronic databases in April 2014 to ensure that the review was up‐to‐date. We included six studies in the review with a total number of 309 participants. Three studies examined anger management, one study examined assertiveness training and problem solving, one study examined 'mindfulness' based on meditation, and one study examined modified relaxation. All the studies were conducted in community settings apart from one, which was conducted in a forensic inpatient setting. Five of these studies were small, comprising between 12 and 40 participants, and one was a large study of 179 participants, which was funded by the National Institute for Health Research (NIHR) Health Technology Assessment (HTA) programme. Information on funding was not available for the other studies. Follow‐up data were available only for two studies. 
Key results  
We found improved outcomes in five studies, including reduction in anger ratings and in aggressive incidents, at the end of treatment. One study found improvements in anger coping skills as reported by key workers at 16 weeks and 10 months, but no other long‐term benefit. One large study did not find improvements in quality of life or reduced costs to health services. Due to differences in the types of interventions, populations and assessments, we could not combine the results of the studies. 
