Cervical ripening before first trimester surgical evacuation for non‐viable pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Using medications or devices to soften and dilate the cervix can reduce the amount of manual dilation required before the uterus is surgically emptied of a non‐viable pregnancy, or miscarriage. The purpose of this cervical ripening is to reduce the possibility of injury to the uterus and cervix and make the procedure easier to perform, although the ripening agents can have side effects. 
Why is this important? 
A large number of gynaecologists are already using cervical ripening techniques before surgical evacuation of the uterus for miscarriages. It is important to assess whether this is an effective and safe practice. 
What evidence did we find? 
Our search for studies (on 30 April 2015) identified nine randomised controlled studies involving 469 women, but only six trials (involving 383 women) contributed data towards this review. The studies included small numbers of women and were not generally of high quality. 
None of the included studies reported data on cervical or uterine injury, which are rare events. 
Cervical preparation, either using mechanical or chemical dilation with misoprostol, was shown to reduce the need for manual cervical dilatation and surgical time compared with placebo (two trials, 168 women). 
Misoprostol was associated with more abdominal pain than placebo but no clear differences were observed in the risk of other adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, headache or fever. 
Misoprostol and isosorbide mononitrate and dinitrate were similarly effective in ripening the cervix and reducing the need for manual cervical dilation (three trials, 150 women). Misoprostol caused more vomiting but with no clear differences in other reported adverse effects (headache, nausea or hypotension). The dosing regimens differed in terms of dose, number of administrations and route of administration in the different trials. Mechanical (Dilapan‐S hygroscopic) dilators performed similarly to chemical dilators in a single trial (65 women) that measured difficulty in cervical dilation, excessive bleeding and adverse effects. 
The medications or devices used did reduce the need for manual dilation of the cervix, but were associated with some side effects. These include abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, fever, headache and diarrhoea. The particular agents that we compared were misoprostol, isosorbide mononitrate, isosorbide dinitrate and Dilapan‐S hygroscopic dilators. No agent performed significantly better than another. 
