Platelet rich therapies for long bone healing in adult
Broken bones (fractures) are a major cause of disability in adults. The time taken for a bone to heal (achieve "union") is an important factor in determining recovery after an injury. A minority of fractures fail to heal at all or in an appropriate period of time. This review set out to find out whether treatment with platelet rich therapy (PRT) accelerates bone healing and reduces complications. Typically, platelet treatment involves the donation of a single venous blood sample from which the active, platelet‐rich, fraction is extracted usually by a process of centrifugation. Additional chemicals may be added to the active fraction to alter its biological and material handling properties. 
Only one study, involving 21 participants, was included in this review. The study compared PRT and bone graft versus bone graft alone (control) in patients with osteoarthritis of the knee who had surgery where a wedge of bone was cut (osteotomy) from their tibia (shin bone) in order to change the pattern of weight bearing on the knee. As in a fracture, the time for the bone to heal is an important factor in determining recovery after an osteotomy. The study found no difference between the PRT and control groups in patient‐reported or clinician‐assessed functional outcomes at one year. However, based on radiographic (x‐ray) measures of bone healing, the study found a higher proportion of bones had healed by one year in those participants who had completed the study. One adverse event was reported in a participant receiving platelet‐rich therapy 
From the limited evidence that is currently available, the review found that PRT had no effect on functional outcomes. PRT may be beneficial in accelerating and improving the incidence of union in osteotomies. The only complication reported was not necessarily related to the PRT treatment. No data were available regarding PRT in the treatment of acute fractures, non‐united fractures or large bony defects. One other study involving hip fracture patients is currently underway, and will provide further evidence concerning the use of PRT in the future. 
