Psychoeducation for brothers and/or sisters of people with severe mental illness (SMI)
Review question. 
This review compares psychoeducation for siblings of people with severe mental illness versus standard care or any other intervention as a means of improving their own wellbeing and quality of life as well as coping with the care‐giving for their mentally ill siblings. 
Background. 
Psychoeducation programmes aim to improve knowledge and understanding of mental health. Family members, inlcuding siblings, of people with severe mental illness are often offered psychoeducation. It is supposed that increased knowledge will help the brother or sister to cope more effectively with providing care for their mentally ill sibling and enhance their own wellbeing. Psychoeducational interventions involve an interaction between the information provider and the sibling of the mentally ill person. This can be delivered in different ways, such as face‐to‐face or via online forums or by a mixture of these methods. 
Study characteristics. 
A search for randomised trials investigating psychoeducation for the siblings of people with severe mental illness was run in 2013. Results of the search suggest that brothers and sisters form a small proportion of family members participating in studies of this kind. Only one study meeting the review criteria was found. This study included nine siblings and compared a psychoeducational intervention with standard care in a community care setting, over a period of 21 months. 
Key results. 
Better outcomes in terms of coping were identified for those siblings who received psychoeducation. However, the number of participants was small and the quality of evidence low, and there is no conclusive evidence that psychoeducation is of benefit for brothers/sisters in this and other important areas (such as wellbeing, quality of life) or for the outcomes of people with mental illness (such as mental state, hospital admission or length of hospital stay). 
Quality of the evidence. 
Further studies are needed to understand the role of psychoeducation in specifically helping brothers and/or sisters to cope with providing care for their mentally ill siblings. The scarcity of good quality studies means that it is not possible to assess which type of psychoeducation is the most effective, although interventions using a group format that brings many family members together to receive education and share their experiences seem well‐received by the participants. 
