Oxycodone for neuropathic pain in adults
Bottom line 
There is no good evidence that oxycodone works in pain from diabetic neuropathy or postherpetic neuralgia. No studies have reported its use in other types of neuropathic pain. 
Background 
Neuropathic pain is pain coming from damaged nerves. It is different from pain messages that are carried along healthy nerves from damaged tissue (eg a fall or cut, or arthritic knee). Neuropathic pain is often treated by different medicines (drugs) to those used for pain from damaged tissue, which we often think of as painkillers. For example, medicines that are used to treat depression or epilepsy (fits) can be very effective in some people with neuropathic pain. But sometimes opioid painkillers are used to treat neuropathic pain. 
Opioid painkillers are drugs like morphine. Morphine is derived from plants, but many opioids are also made by chemical synthesis rather than being extracted from plants. Oxycodone is a semi‐synthetic opioid, manufactured from the opioid alkaloid thebaine. 
This review is part of an update of an earlier review, Oxycodone for neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia in adults, that has now been split into separate reviews for the two conditions. This review focuses only on neuropathic pain. 
Study characteristics 
In December 2015, we updated searches from an earlier Cochrane review to look for clinical trials that used oxycodone to treat neuropathic pain in adults. We found two additional studies to include. The earlier review included three studies that compared oxycodone with placebo over several weeks, and the additional studies added oxycodone to existing treatment with pregabalin or gabapentin. Most of the 687 people in the studies had painful limbs because of damaged nerves caused by diabetes. 
Key results 
Only very low quality evidence suggested that oxycodone relieved the pain. Compared with placebo, fewer people stopped taking oxycodone because they felt it was not effective, but more people experienced side effects. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence for both benefit and harm as very low because of small numbers of studies and participants, the outcomes reported, and potential bias from the way the studies were analysed. Very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. 
