Steroids applied directly to polyps in the nose in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effect of applying steroids directly to polyps in the noses of people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
People with cystic fibrosis often have polyps in their nose which can cause discharge and also a blocked nose. We know that people with cystic fibrosis and polyps in their nose also have more of some types of bacteria in their lungs. This can lead to serious chest complications later on. If we treat the polyps effectively at an early stage, we may prevent these chest complications. 
Steroid sprays or drops are often applied directly to polyps in the nose.These drugs are usually a safe treatment but can have some important side effects, like affecting the immune system and how the body can regulate blood sugar. They also add to the existing burden of treatment, especially if they need to be taken for the rest of a person's life. However, these drugs have been shown to be successful in treating polyps in people who do not have cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 10 June 2015.
Study characteristics 
Our search found one trial with 46 adult volunteers with cystic fibrosis which compared nasal drops containing a steroid (betamethasone) to identical drops containing no active treatment. Two drops were applied directly to polyps twice a day for six weeks. Volunteers were put into the different treatment groups at random and a total of 22 volunteers received the steroid drops and 24 received the dummy treatment. 
Key results 
The trial measured each person's perception of their symptom scores, but found no difference to the scores whether volunteers were using the steroid drops or the dummy treatment. The trial also measured the change in polyp size and found that they shrank. There were no major side effects linked to using betamethasone, and only three volunteers reported increased nose bleeds and discomfort. 
The small number of volunteers in this trial means the calculations and results should be regarded with some caution. More trials are needed to confirm the findings and these trials should report on measures of symptoms and quality of life issues. 
Quality of the evidence 
We think that volunteers had a truly equal chance of being put in either the steroid group or the control group and wouldn't have known which treatment they were receiving, so these issues would not have influenced the results in any way. However, over 50% of people enrolled did not complete the study and the reasons for dropping out were not very clearly explained. We think it is important to take this fact into account when considering the trial results. Also, the trial only followed the volunteers for six weeks, which is a short time when evaluating a treatment that could be needed for the rest of a person's life. 
