Does limiting the times you eat (intermittent fasting) prevent cardiovascular disease?
What is cardiovascular disease? 
Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death worldwide. Smoking, diabetes and being overweight are risk factors for CVD, which means that they increase your chances of developing CVD. CVD can often be prevented by a healthy lifestyle, such as keeping to a healthy weight or losing weight if you need to. 
Following a diet 
Some people choose to lose weight by following a diet; for example, by eating less fat, or by reducing the number of calories they eat. Intermittent fasting is a type of diet involving patterns of eating and fasting (not eating foods); it does not limit what foods you eat, but limits when you can eat them. Eating patterns in intermittent fasting include: fasting for one or two days each week; fasting every other day; or eating only during certain hours and fasting for at least 12 hours every day. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
Diets that involve intermittent fasting are becoming popular. We wanted to find out if intermittent fasting could reduce or prevent CVD. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested intermittent fasting against 'usual eating' (someone eats whatever foods they want whenever they like), or against 'energy restriction' diets (someone limits the number of calories they eat). 
We wanted to find out whether intermittent fasting affected mortality, cardiovascular mortality, risk of stroke, heart attack or heart failure. We also looked at whether intermittent fasting affected body weight and blood sugar levels. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to 12 December 2019. 
What we found 
We found 26 relevant studies; we then used the results from 18 of the studies to compare the different diets. The 18 studies included 1125 adults (aged over 18 years). Some people in the studies had risk factors for CVD and some people had no risk factors. Most studies were funded by universities and research centres; two studies were funded by companies that make diet foods. 
The studies compared intermittent fasting against usual eating (in seven studies); energy restriction diets (eight studies); and usual eating and energy restriction diets (three studies). The studies lasted from four weeks to six months. Results were reported after three months (short‐term), and between three and 12 months (medium‐term). 
We didn't find any data on mortality, cardiovascular mortality or risk of stroke, heart attack or heart failure. 
We found that people may lose more weight by intermittent fasting than by usual eating over three months (evidence from 7 studies in 224 people); but not when compared against energy restriction diets for three months (10 studies; 719 people) or longer (3 to 12 months; 4 studies; 279 people). 
We also found that intermittent fasting did not appear to affect blood sugar levels when compared against usual eating over three months (3 studies; 95 people); energy restriction diets over three months (9 studies; 582 people); or energy restriction diets over 3 to12 months (4 studies; 279 people). 
The weight losses and changes in blood sugars reported in the studies were small. These changes were not deemed to be clinically significant. 
