Plasma transfusions before major surgery (other than heart surgery) or invasive procedures, to prevent bleeding 
Review question 
Human plasma, a blood component, is often transfused to people before undergoing surgery or other procedures (such as inserting a chest drainage tube) when blood tests show that their blood may not clot adequately. Aims of this review were to assess how effective this practice is in reducing subsequent bleeding or need for blood transfusion, and whether this approach increases risk of death or other significantly harmful effects. The review excluded people with inherited bleeding disorders and those taking medication that reduces their blood's clotting ability. 
Background 
Human plasma is obtained from blood donors. It contains many factors that help blood to clot. Although plasma may be transfused to people based on blood tests suggesting that their blood may not clot adequately, these tests have limitations. A person's blood may clot adequately despite abnormal test results. Abnormal test results also do not clearly predict those people who will go on to bleed. Furthermore, plasma transfusion corrects abnormal blood tests to varying degrees. 
Plasma is also expensive, and some countries have issues with blood product shortages, donor reliability, and incomplete screening for infections that could be transmitted through blood product transfusion. Given the potential for life‐threatening complications from plasma transfusion, its use in this setting carries risk of harm without clear evidence of benefit. 
Study characteristics 
We included five trials which were all conducted in high‐income countries.
Our search is current up until 28 January 2019. One trial compared plasma transfusion with no transfusion given. Another trial compared plasma or platelet transfusion or both with neither plasma nor platelet transfusion given. One trial compared plasma transfusion with alternative products given to help blood clot. Another trial compared different blood tests to trigger a plasma transfusion, and still another trial compared different transfusion triggers using the same blood test. 
Four trials involved adult participants over 18 years old, and the fifth trial did not specify age of participants. In four trials, participants underwent bedside procedures. Only one trial involved some participants undergoing major surgical operations. Two trials included only participants in intensive care, and two trials included only participants with liver disease. 
One trial recruited only two participants. Therefore review results include the remaining four trials, incorporating 234 participants. Three further trials are ongoing. 
Key results 
When plasma transfusion was compared with no transfusion given, we are very uncertain whether there was a difference in major bleeding, number of blood transfusions per participant, or harmful effects from the transfusion (1 trial; very low‐quality evidence). When plasma or platelet transfusion or both were compared with neither plasma nor platelet transfusion, we are very uncertain whether there was a difference in mortality within 30 days, or in the number of individuals requiring a transfusion (1 trial; very low‐quality evidence). 
