Parent‐infant psychotherapy for improving parent and infant well‐being
Background 
Parent‐infant psychotherapy (PIP) is intended to address problems in the parent‐infant relationship, and problems such as excessive crying and sleeping/eating difficulties. A parent‐infant psychotherapist works directly with the parent and infant in the home or clinic, to identify unconscious patterns of relating and behaving, and influences from the past that are impeding the parent‐infant relationship. Parents may be referred to this service (e.g. by a general practitioner in the UK) or may self refer to privately run services. The intervention is delivered to individual dyads but can also be delivered to small groups of parents and infants. 
Review question 
This review examined whether PIP is effective in improving the parent‐infant relationship, or other aspects of parent or infant functioning, and to identify the programme components that appear to be associated with more effective outcomes and factors that modify intervention effectiveness (e.g. programme duration, programme focus). 
Study characteristics 
We searched electronic databases and identified randomised controlled trials (RCTs, where participants are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) and one cluster randomised trial (where prisons rather than participants were used as the unit of randomisation), in which participants had been allocated to a receive PIP versus a control group, and which reported results using at least one standard measure of outcome (i.e. an instrument which has been tested to ensure that it reliably measures the outcome under investigation). 
Evidence is current to 13 January 2014.
We identified eight studies with 846 randomised participants comparing either PIP with a no‐treatment control group (four studies) or comparing PIP with other types of treatment (four studies). 
Key results 
The studies comparing PIP with a no‐treatment control group contributed data to 19 meta‐analyses of the primary outcomes of parental mental health (depression), parent‐infant interaction outcomes of maternal sensitivity (i.e. the extent to which the caregiver responds in a timely and attuned manner), child involvement and parent positive engagement, and infant outcomes of infant attachment category (the infant's ability to seek and maintain closeness to primary caregiver ‐ infant attachment is classified as follows: 'secure' infant attachment is a positive outcome, which indicates that the infant is able to be comforted when distressed and is able to use the parent as a secure base from which to explore the environment. Infants who are insecurely attached are either 'avoidant' (i.e. appear not to need comforting when they are distressed and attempt to manage the distress themselves); or 'resistant' (i.e. unable to be comforted when distressed and alternate between resistance and anger). Children who are defined as ‘disorganised’ are unable to produce a coherent strategy in the face of distress and produce behaviour that is a mixture of approach and avoidance to the caregiver); and the secondary outcomes of infant behaviour and infant cognitive development (i.e. intellectual development, including thinking, problem solving and communicating). 
In our analyses, parents who received PIP were more likely to have an infant who was securely emotionally attached to the parent after the intervention; this a favourable outcome but there is very low quality evidence to support it. 
The studies comparing PIP with another model of treatment contributed data to 15 meta‐analysis assessments of primary outcomes, including parental mental health, parent‐infant interaction (maternal sensitivity); infant attachment and infant behaviour, or secondary infant outcomes such as infant cognitive development. None of these comparisons showed differences that favoured either PIP or the alternative intervention. 
None of the comparisons of PIP with either a control or comparison treatment group showed adverse changes for any outcome. 
We conclude that although PIP appears to be a promising method of improving infant attachment security, there is no evidence about its benefits in terms of other outcomes, and no evidence to show that it is more effective than other types of treatment for parents and infants. Further research is needed. 
Quality of the evidence 
The included studies were unclear about important quality criteria, had limitations in terms of their design or methods, or we judged that there was risk of bias in the trial. This lower quality evidence gives us less confidence in the observed effects. 
