Early and late adverse effects on the kidney after treatment for childhood cancer
Review question 
This review evaluated how common (the prevalence), and what might cause (the risk factors), early and late adverse effects (side effects), of the kidney in childhood cancer survivors (CCS). 
Background 
Improvements in diagnostics and treatment for childhood cancer has resulted in a major increase in survival. However, CCS are at risk of developing adverse effects as a result of their cancer treatment, including adverse effects on the kidneys. Little is known about the prevalence and risk factors of kidney function problems in long‐term CCS. The kidneys can compensate for problems in their functioning, however, some symptoms can be experienced over time, depending on which kidney functions are affected. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to March 2017. We included 61 studies; 46 on prevalence, six for both prevalence and risk factors, and nine studies that did not meet all the requirements for this review, but evaluated risk factors (non‐eligible studies). Participants in the studies had been treated before the age of 21 years with chemotherapy (i.e. cisplatin, carboplatin, ifosfamide), radiation, or surgery involving the kidneys, or a combination of these treatments. The studies took place at least one year after the participants had finished their treatment. The 52 studies that evaluated prevalence of adverse kidney effects included 13,327 participants, of whom 4499 underwent kidney function tests. The studies were very different from each other, in the types of participants and treatments, length of follow‐up and how they measured treatment results, and their methods were of variable quality. 
Key results 
The percentage of CCS with kidney problems ranged from 0% to 84%. Reported risk factors were often inconsistent among studies. 
The prevalence of chronic kidney disease ranged from 2.4% to 32% in 244 participants (7/52 studies). 
Thirty‐six out of 52 studies, including at least 432 participants, carried out a kidney function test called glomerular filtration rate (GFR). An abnormal GFR was found to be present in 0% to 73.7% of participants. One eligible study found an increased risk of abnormal GFR in participants who had been treated with total body irradiation (TBI) and received certain types of antibiotics (aminoglycosides and vancomycin). Four non‐eligible studies reported an increased risk of abnormal GFR for participants treated with surgery of the kidney and ifosfamide. Some studies also reported that cisplatin and long follow‐up duration were risk factors. 
