Treating persistent pain in torture survivors
Bottom line 
There is no good evidence about any method of treating long‐lasting pain following torture. 
Background 
Psychological problems following torture, such as depression and post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), receive a lot of attention in refugee healthcare. Physical problems after torture tend to be overlooked by staff trained in mental health care. Survivors of torture often suffer long‐lasting pain, usually affecting muscles and joints. 
Study characteristics 
We wanted to know whether any treatments were successful in improving pain, and reducing disability and distress in survivors of torture. We searched the academic literature to February 2017 and found three randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups). 
Key results 
Two studies (58 participants) compared cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT; talking therapy that helps people change the way they think and behave) plus learning to control muscles and breathing with no treatment, and we were able to combine these for analysis. Neither study showed any meaningful improvement in pain, reduction in disability, or reduction in distress, over eight to 13 weeks of treatment. One study (30 participants) compared complex manual therapy with self‐treatment for low back pain but could not be combined with the other two studies; it reported no difference in pain relief, but did report that the physical intervention reduced disability and distress at the end of treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. The quality of the evidence was very low for pain relief, reduction in distress, and reduction in disability. This was due to the small size of the studies, poor study design, and substantial dropout of participants from studies. 
