Conservative treatment for exercise‐related groin pain
Exercise‐related groin pain is common in sports especially those involving running, kicking and changing directions, such as in soccer and hockey. Athletes may have a delay of several months before being able to resume the sport, and this may not be at their former level of sports activity. Usually the treating clinician deals with the coexistence of two or more disorders, such as muscle, tendon and ligament strains and a bony stress reaction. Conservative interventions are generally the first choice for treatment and include an initial period of rest; strengthening of the muscles stabilising the pelvis and hip joints; stretching the hip muscles; electrotherapy (for example, transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TENS), laser and ultrasound therapy); manual therapy; non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs; steroidal injections or prolotherapy (injection of growth factor production stimulants to induce growth and repair of normal tissue). 
Two randomized controlled trials, involving a total of 122 athletes with exercise‐related groin pain, were included in this review. Participants were aged between 18 and 50 years and all but one were male. They had had groin pain for at least two months. One trial demonstrated positive results in athletes treated by exercise therapy (strengthening of hip and abdominal muscles, and training muscular co‐ordination) in comparison with 'conventional' physiotherapy consisting of passive modalities (stretching exercises, electrotherapy and transverse friction massage) 16 weeks after the end of treatment, for 'successful treatment' (based primarily on pain measures) and for the rate of return to sports at the same level without groin pain. The second study compared multi‐modal treatment (heat, manual therapy and stretching) with exercise therapy and found no significant difference between groups for 'successful treatment' and return to sports, but did show an earlier return to sport for those athletes who achieved this outcome following the multi‐modal treatment. 
The available evidence is exclusively related to athletes and is limited because of the low number of studies and low number of participants for each outcome. Further randomized controlled trials are needed to ratify these results. 
