Factors that influence whether healthcare workers follow infection prevention and control guidelines for respiratory infectious diseases 
What is the aim of this review? 
Coronavirus (COVID‐19) is a respiratory infectious disease that has spread throughout the world. Healthcare workers treating patients with COVID‐19 are at risk of infecting themselves and others by breathing in droplets from infected patients and touching contaminated surfaces. Governments and organisations publish infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines to reduce transmission of infections. IPC guidelines cover using personal protective equipment (PPE) like masks, gloves, and gowns; separating patients with respiratory infections; and stricter cleaning routines. However, how much healthcare workers follow this guidance varies. 
The aim of this Cochrane review of qualitative research (“qualitative evidence synthesis”) was to explore what influences whether healthcare workers follow infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines for respiratory infectious diseases. To answer this question, we analysed 20 qualitative studies of healthcare workers' views and experiences of IPC guidelines. 
Key messages 
Healthcare workers point to several factors that influence their ability and willingness to follow IPC guidelines when managing respiratory infectious diseases. These include factors linked to the guideline content and how it is communicated, support from managers, workplace culture, training, physical space, access to and trust in personal protective equipment (PPE), and a desire to deliver good patient care. The review also highlights the importance of including all healthcare facilities staff when implementing guidelines. 
What was studied in this review? 
We searched for studies that examined healthcare workers’ views and experiences towards IPC guidelines – particularly for respiratory diseases that start suddenly, like COVID‐19. Guidelines could be local, national, or international, for any healthcare setting. We included studies of any healthcare worker who looked after patients in any healthcare setting. We searched for studies published from 2002 onwards to cover the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak onwards. 
