Etanercept for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis
Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of the effect of etanercept (Enbrel) for people with rheumatoid arthritis. After searching for all relevant studies, they found nine studies with over 2800 people.  Their findings are summarised below. 
In people with rheumatoid arthritis who have NOT improved with a traditional disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drug (DMARD): 
‐ Etanercept plus DMARDs probably improves pain, function and other symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis; 
‐ Etanercept plus DMARDs reduces disease activity and disability;
‐ Showing a small difference needs a larger number of participants – when all the data from the different types of participants are combined, etanercept reduces permanent joint damage as seen on x‐ray. 
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare, but serious, side effects. Side effects such as injection site reactions, headache, common colds, nausea, dizziness and infections may occur with etanercept on its own or combined with a DMARD. Another Cochrane Review (Singh 2011) has shown that there is a small risk of tuberculosis reactivation and serious infections.  Rare complications may include certain types of cancer. 
What is etanercept and why is it prescribed?  When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. Etanercept is a "biologic" that is prescribed to decrease pain and swelling and slow the progress of rheumatoid arthritis. A biologic is a medical product not chemically synthesized, that is derived from living material. This medical product is injected beneath the skin in the same way as insulin in treating diabetes. It is usually prescribed when other DMARDs do not work well, but it can be expensive. 
What happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take etanercept plus traditional DMARDs (methotrexate or sulphasalazine) after they have NOT improved with traditional DMARDs alone 
ACR 50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability) 
38 more people out of 100 had a 50% improvement in symptoms after six months to three years compared with people taking a DMARD alone (38% absolute improvement). 79 people out of 100 on etanercept plus DMARDs had a 50% improvement in symptoms. 41 people out of 100 on DMARDs alone had a 50% improvement in symptoms 
Disease activity 
22 more people out of 100 were considered to have low disease activity of their rheumatoid arthritis from six months to three years on etanercept with DMARDs (22% absolute improvement). 46 people out of 100 on etanercept plus DMARDs were considered to have low disease activity of their rheumatoid arthritis. 24 people out of 100 on DMARDs alone were considered to have low disease activity of their rheumatoid arthritis. 
Disability 
People who took etanercept plus a DMARD rated the change in their disability to be 0.36 points lower on a scale of 0 to 3 after six months to three years compared with people who took a DMARD alone (12% absolute improvement). People who took etanercept plus a DMARD rated the change in their disability to be between 0.51 and 1.08 on a scale of 0 to 3 after six months to three years. People who took a DMARD alone rated the change in their disability to be between 0.15 and 0.72 on a scale of 0 to 3 after six months to three years. 
