Human albumin infusion for treating oedema in people with nephrotic syndrome
What is the issue? 
Nephrotic syndrome is a kidney disorder that causes the body to excrete high quantities of protein in urine. The loss of protein causes the body to retain fluid that would normally be excreted in the urine and swelling (oedema) typically starting at the ankles and sometimes involving the hands and face. 
Oedema is often treated by a diuretic (a medication that stimulates the kidney to increase the excretion of salt and water). However, in nephrotic syndrome diuretics alone often don't work. Human albumin has been used to replace the protein lost. This might result in the oedema fluid being drawn back into the blood circulation so it can be excreted by the kidneys. It might be given alone or in combination with a diuretic. We wanted to find out whether albumin could treat oedema in people with nephrotic syndrome. 
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) or quasi‐RCTs comparing (1) albumin with a placebo or no treatment, (2) albumin with a diuretic, (3) albumin combined with a diuretic compared with a diuretic alone, or (4) albumin with other treatments. We excluded cross‐over studies but would have included data for the first period before the cross‐over if available. The last search was done in June 2019. 
What did we find? 
The review found one small RCT (26 patients) comparing human albumin plus the diuretic furosemide with placebo suitable for inclusion. We found nine studies on people with nephrotic syndrome that tested these comparisons but these were 'cross‐over' studies which we judged not suitable. To find out whether there was any improvement after albumin, the study measured weight loss and serum sodium. The adverse effect measured was blood pressure. Although the authors reported increased weight loss we were not able to confirm this due to inconsistency between the data reported in the table and the text. There was no change in serum sodium or blood pressure. We judged these outcomes all to be of very low certainty. Death, quality of life, and kidney function were not reported. 
Conclusions Because there was only one small study found we cannot tell whether albumin is effective in people with nephrotic syndrome and we do not know from the studies we looked at whether it is safe. There is no evidence in adults. We judged the evidence to be very low certainty. Therefore RCTs are needed. 
