Non‐drug approaches for preventing delirium in adults receiving care in hospital outside of intensive care and high dependency units 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for non‐pharmacological (non‐medication‐based) approaches to prevent delirium in adults in hospital, not including those treated in intensive care units (ICU, specialised wards for the care of critically ill patients). 
Background 
Delirium is an important illness which is common among adults, especially older adults who are in hospital. It is sometimes referred to as an 'acute confusional state'. Typically, a person with delirium has sudden onset of confusion, which fluctuates, and often includes impaired concentration, memory and thinking skills; reduced awareness of surroundings; drowsiness or agitation and restlessness; and hallucinations, which are usually visual (seeing things which are not really there). It can be distressing for the individual with delirium and their family. It is also associated with increased risks of complications, such as dying in hospital, having a longer hospital stay, and requiring more care after discharge. Increasingly, there is evidence that delirium is associated with an increased risk of permanent worsening of memory and thinking skills, including development or worsening of dementia.  
Non‐pharmacological approaches are approaches which do not use medications, but which focus on other aspects of care. They are already recognised as important in reducing the risk of delirium, particularly multicomponent interventions which target several of the common risk factors for delirium. It is not known which components of these complex interventions are most important in preventing delirium and this was something we wanted to find out.  
Study characteristics 
We searched up to 16 September 2020 for reports of studies in which people in hospital were randomly allocated to a non‐pharmacological intervention intended to prevent delirium or to usual hospital care.  We found 22 studies with 5718 participants. Fourteen of the studies were of multicomponent approaches; two studies looked at different cut‐offs for giving a blood transfusion after an orthopaedic operation; the remaining six studies all considered different approaches. 
Key findings 
Multicomponent approaches probably reduce occurrence of delirium by 43% compared to usual hospital care. This means that two in five cases of delirium in adults in hospital wards (other than ICU) can be prevented by multicomponent, non‐pharmacological approaches. These interventions may also reduce the length of time people stay in hospital and, if delirium does occur, they may reduce the duration of the delirium episode by about a day. However, these approaches may have little or no effect on the risk of dying in hospital. The studies did not investigate the effect of multicomponent interventions on the development or worsening of dementia. There was little information about whether the interventions had any harmful effects.  
Using a new statistical technique, we found  that the following components within each intervention were most important for preventing delirium:  (a) trying to keep people well‐oriented to their surroundings and making their surroundings more familiar, (b) providing stimulation to memory and thinking skills, and (c) trying to improve sleep (through sleep hygiene measures). We could not be so certain about the effect of other components, largely because not enough evidence was available. More research is needed comparing the specific components included in multicomponent interventions to help determine the most effective and efficient ways to prevent delirium.  
The evidence for other, single‐component, non‐pharmacological interventions was very limited.  
Certainty of the evidence 
There were some limitations in the studies which may affect the results. In many included studies the people in the study and sometimes researchers were aware of who was and was not receiving the intervention.  
There was very little information about people living with dementia, who are at greater risk of experiencing delirium.  
External funding 
Funding to support researchers to undertake this review was received from the National Institute for Health Research (Incentive Award 130725) and Medical Research Scotland (Vacation Scholarship).  
