Unfractionated or low molecular weight heparin for treatment of active ulcerative colitis 
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of unfractionated or low‐molecular weight heparin on induction of remission in patients with ulcerative colitis, with the medical literature up to June 17, 2014. 
Background 
What is ulcerative colitis?
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease characterized by recurrent episodes of active disease, which commonly affect the rectum or colon or both. Patients with active disease may experience abdominal cramping, urgency to pass stools, and bloody diarrhea. When the symptoms stop, the patients enter a 'remission phase' of ulcerative colitis. 
What is heparin?
Heparin is a family of medications that reduce the body's natural ability to form clots. Unfrationated and low‐molecular heparins are sub‐types of heparins that are currently available for clinical use. In theory, decreasing clot formation may help to improve symptoms of ulcerative colitis. 
Study Characteristics 
The researchers identified five studies that included a total of 329 patients. Three studies (270 patients) compared low molecular weight heparin to placebo (e.g. a sugar pill), one study (34 patients) compared low molecular weight heparin in addition to standard therapy, and one study (25 patients) compared unfractionated heparin to steroids. The study comparing unfractionated heparin to steroids and the study that compared the addition of low molecular weight heparin to standard therapy to standard therapy alone was judged to be of low quality. The three placebo‐controlled studies were judged to be of high quality. 
Key Results 
In one small study, unfractionated heparin was worse than steroids for inducing clinical improvement (i.e. reduction of symptoms) in people with severe ulcerative colitis. In addition, rectal bleeding was more frequent among people who received unfractionated heparin. In another small study low molecular weight heparin used with standard therapy provided no additional benefit over standard therapy alone in adults with active ulcerative colitis. 
Low molecular weight heparin administered by injection showed no benefit over placebo for any outcome, including clinical remission (very low quality of evidence), clinical improvement and endoscopic improvement (i.e. healing of inflammation). High dose low molecular weight heparin administered via an extended colon‐release tablet demonstrated benefit over placebo for clinical remission, clinical improvement. and endoscopic improvement. This result suggests that high dose low molecular weight heparin administered by extended‐release capsules may be effective for the treatment of active ulcerative colitis. However, this result needs to be verified by future clinical trials. 
