Multifocal versus monofocal intraocular lenses for people having cataract surgery
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess the effects of multifocal compared with monofocal intraocular lenses after cataract extraction. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 20 studies. 
Key messages 
The review shows that people who have a multifocal intraocular lens after their cataract is removed may be less likely to need additional spectacles. However, they may experience more visual problems, such as glare or haloes (rings around lights), compared with people who have monofocal lenses. 
What was studied in the review? 
As people get older, sometimes the lens of the eye becomes cloudy leading to loss of vision. The cloudy lens is known as a 'cataract'. The cataract can be removed and a replacement lens put in its place. Usually the replacement lens has one 'point of focus'. This means that a person's vision after cataract surgery is either good for distance vision (driving, watching television) or good for near vision (reading, sewing) but not good for both. This standard lens is known as a 'monofocal' lens. People who get a monofocal lens will need to use spectacles for either distance or, more usually, for near vision. 
To address this problem, new lenses have been developed that provide two or more points of focus. These are known as 'multifocal' lenses. These are designed to reduce the need for spectacles. People with multifocal lenses may have more vision problems such as glare and seeing haloes. Another option is to put a different monofocal lens in each eye: one with a focus for near vision and one with a focus for distance vision. This is known as 'monovision'. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The Cochrane researchers found 20 relevant studies that were mainly conducted in Europe and North America (15 studies); three studies were conducted in China and one study each in the Middle East and India. Eighteen studies compared multifocal with monofocal lenses and two studies compared multifocal lenses with monovision. 
The Cochrane researchers assessed how certain the evidence is for each review finding. They looked for factors that can make the evidence less certain, such as problems with the way the studies were done, very small studies, and inconsistent findings across studies. They also looked for factors that can make the evidence more certain, including very large effects. They graded each finding as very low, low, moderate or high certainty 
The review shows that:
• People with multifocal lenses probably have distance vision that is not very different to the distance vision of people who have standard monofocal lenses after cataract extraction (moderate‐certainty evidence). However, people with multifocal lenses may have better near vision and may be less likely to need spectacles compared with people with monofocal lenses (low‐certainty evidence). 
• People who have multifocal lenses may be more likely to experience haloes and glare compared with people who have monofocal lenses (low‐certainty evidence). 
