Topical treatment with cyclosporine A eyedrops for inflammation of the surface of the eye 
Atopic keratoconjunctivitis (AKC) is an inflammatory disorder of the ocular surface that can be suffered by 67.5% of atopic dermatitis patients. It is a chronic condition that often requires long‐term treatment in order to avoid ocular complications that may lead to visual loss. This condition is frequently treated with steroid eyedrops, but long‐term treatment with such drugs can produce severe side effects, such as the development of cataracts, glaucoma or severe infections of the eye. Topical treatment with cyclosporine A (CsA) eyedrops may be useful to control signs and symptoms of atopic keratoconjunctivitis, and to reduce the need for steroid eyedrops. 
Three eligible studies with a total of 58 participants were included in this review. One study was conducted in the UK, one in Australia and one had multicentre sites in the UK and US. These studies varied significantly in interventions, methodology and reported outcomes. One study used 2% CsA in maize oil, and two used a commercial emulsion of 0.05% CsA. Of these three studies, two showed a beneficial effect of topical CsA in controlling signs of AKC, and one did not find evidence of this improvement. One study showed a beneficial effect of topical CsA in controlling symptoms of AKC, but the other two did not find evidence of this improvement. Only two studies analysed the effect of topical CsA in reducing topical steroid use; one showed a significant reduction in topical steroid use with CsA, but the other could not find evidence of this improvement. The data suggest that topical CsA may provide clinical and symptomatic relief in AKC and may help to reduce topical steroid use in patients with steroid‐dependent or steroid‐resistant AKC. Moreover, no serious adverse events were detected. However, this review has identified a need for more randomised controlled trials to provide further reliable evidence on the efficacy and safety of topical treatment with CsA eyedrops for patients with AKC. These trials should include larger samples of patients with AKC, and their follow‐up periods should be long enough to draw conclusions on the long‐term efficacy and safety of this therapy. 
