The use of intravenous antibiotics to treat pulmonary exacerbations in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
Do intravenous antibiotics (antibiotics given via a vein) given to treat 'flare ups' of lung disease (pulmonary exacerbations) in people with cystic fibrosis improve clinical outcomes in the short term and the long term? 
Background 
We wanted to evaluate the evidence for the current practice of using intravenous antibiotics to treat people with cystic fibrosis who have a pulmonary exacerbation. We wanted to discover if it is better to give two antibiotics than just a single antibiotic and wanted to consider if any particular antibiotic combination is better than any other. We also wanted to discover if intravenous antibiotics are any better than inhaled or oral antibiotics in treating pulmonary exacerbations in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
We last searched for evidence on 27 July 2015.
Study characteristics 
The review included 40 studies with 1717 people with cystic fibrosis. Studies compared intravenous antibiotics with placebo (dummy drug with no active medication) and also one antibiotic compared to two antibiotics given together. Specific antibiotic combinations were also compared as were intravenous antibiotics with antibiotics that were breathed in (inhaled) and antibiotics that were swallowed (oral). The studies lasted from three to 15 days, although most of the studies lasted for two weeks. 
Key results 
In the comparison between those people who were given just one antibiotic and those who were given two, it appeared that those receiving two antibiotics experienced a greater improvement in lung function, but when limited to only those studies that included a dummy drug, we did not see any difference. There was no effect upon the amount of time until the next exacerbation, weight, or adverse effects. No combination of antibiotics was any better than any other. The outcomes for people were the same irrespective of whether they were treated by intravenous, oral or inhaled antibiotics. None of the studies reported on quality of life. 
