Psychological treatments for people with epilepsy
Review question 
In this Cochrane Review, we wanted to find out if the well‐being (quality of life) of people with epilepsy could be improved by participation in educational or skills‐based psychological therapies. 
Why is this important? 
Epilepsy is a brain‐condition in which sudden bursts of intense electrical activity happen in the brain and cause the brain's messages to get mixed up, resulting in a seizure. Seizures affect people in different ways: they may cause unusual sensations, movements or feelings, loss of awareness, falls, stiffness or jerking. Epileptic seizures can occur repeatedly and without any triggers. Seizures can happen anytime and anywhere; they can come on suddenly and can happen often. 
Epilepsy can significantly impact a person’s wellbeing and quality of life. For instance, many people with epilepsy experience depression and anxiety, memory problems, unemployment and discrimination, adverse side effects from medications, challenges to independence and worries about seizures and their consequences. 
Treatments for epilepsy typically focus on stopping or reducing the number of seizures a person has with as little side effects as possible. However, psychological therapies, usually delivered by psychologists, psychiatrists or other healthcare professionals could improve well‐being in people with epilepsy. 
What did we do? 
On 12 August 2019, we searched research databases for studies that measured the effects of psychological therapy offered to people with epilepsy on their quality of life. We found 36 studies, which involved 3,526 people with epilepsy. Participants of most studies were adults (27 studies); only three studies included adolescents and adults, and six involved children and adolescents. 
Most studies (27) measured the effects of “skills‐based” psychological therapies. These treatments teach people skills they can use in their daily lives. The treatment approaches of skills‐based therapies included: cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) including CBT techniques such as breathing, reasoning or visualizing; counseling; and exercises in mindfulness. The other nine studies measured educational therapies. These treatments aimed to increase people’s knowledge of epilepsy and related conditions, treatments for epilepsy, or about how the brain works. The studies compared the effects of the psychological therapies with a person's usual care, antidepressant medicines or social support. 
