Heparin regimens to prevent arterial thrombosis in children requiring heart catheterization
Background 
Children with heart defects since birth (that is, congenital heart disease) frequently undergo a particular type of invasive procedure termed cardiac catheterization, to help diagnose or correct their condition. This procedure consists of inserting a flexible plastic tube (catheter) into the blood vessels of the patient and guiding it to his or her heart, where a dye is injected before pictures of the heart are taken. Children undergoing this type of procedure may suffer unwanted complications in the arteries into which the catheter is inserted. It is estimated that approximately 1 out of 5 to 10 patients develop arterial blood clots (that is, thrombosis) and thus require additional treatment to prevent those clots from growing further. 
Heparin, a medication known as a 'blood thinner' (that is, an anticoagulant drug), employed in clinical practice since 1935, has been used to decrease the number of arterial blood clots during heart catheterization. However, the best dose of heparin to be used in children during heart catheterization remains to be determined. 
Key results 
This review included two small randomized controlled trials with a total of 492 participants (current until 15 October 2019). These two studies found imprecise evidence that the risk of arterial clots was similar in both the low‐dose and high‐dose heparin groups. Only one study reported bleeding and the frequency of clots in veins, which were also not different between groups. Side effects of heparin other than bleeding were not reported in either of the studies. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence provided by these studies is moderate. We downgraded the certainty of evidence from high to moderate due to the small size and number of studies and concerns over the methods used (risk of bias). Further larger studies are needed to determine the effects of different heparin doses. 
