Risperidone as a means of calming people who are aggressive or agitated due to psychosis
Background 
People with psychosis may experience hearing voices (hallucinations) or abnormal thoughts (delusions), which can make the person frightened, distressed, and agitated. Experiencing such emotions can sometimes lead to aggressive behaviour. This poses a challenge and dilemma for staff. Mental health professionals have to diagnose and deliver the best available treatment to prevent the risk of harm to both the patient and/or others, the faster the better. Risperidone is a medication taken by mouth, widely used for treating people manage the symptoms of psychosis. As well as being an antipsychotic (preventing psychosis), it also could calm people down or help them to sleep. 
Aim of the review 
This review looks at whether the antipsychotic, risperidone, could be a fast, effective treatment for people who are agitated or aggressive as a result of having psychosis. 
Searches 
The Information Specialist of Cochrane Schizophrenia ran searches of their specialised register for randomised trials that looked at the effects of giving risperidone alone compared with giving either placebo (dummy treatment) or other treatments to people who are aggressive or agitated as a results of having psychosis. The latest date of searching was April 2017. 
Results 
Nine studies, with 582 participants, are included in the review but the information provided is poor in quality and tended to provide information only partially relevant to the main aim of this review, particularly a lack of information regarding immediate (i.e. under one hour after treatment) calming effects and the need for repeated tranquillisation. Economic data were also not reported. In the trials, risperidone was compared to other antipsychotics, which included haloperidol, olanzapine and quetiapine. The review found risperidone was no better or worse than haloperidol for calming aggression within 24 hours, and that two weeks after treatment, people receiving risperidone had higher (worse) scores on scales measuring levels of aggression than those receiving quetiapine. Both these results, however, were graded as very low‐quality evidence. One small study found a combination of antipsychotics (risperidone plus oxcarbazepine) was better than risperidone alone at reducing levels of agitation but these data were collected after one week and again, this evidence was rated as very low quality. No clear differences in the incidence of side effects such as movement disorders were observed. 
