Bisphosphonates and denosumab for breast cancer
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer may spread and recur in the bones. This may cause fractures, pain and high calcium in the bloodstream (known as complications). 
Medicines for osteoporosis may prevent these complications and may help cure cancer by reducing cancer growth in the bone. These medicines are called 'bisphosphonates'. A newer type is called ‘denosumab’. Bisphosphonates or denosumab are given in addition to other cancer treatment medications. These may be given along with chemotherapy, endocrine therapy, or radiotherapy. 
Study questions 
The goal of bisphosphonates and denosumab differs based on the women's breast cancer status. 
We asked three main questions:
1. For women with early breast cancer (EBC), can bisphosphonates or denosumab reduce the risk of the cancer spreading to the bone? Will adding this medicine to anticancer treatments allow women to live longer (improve survival)? 
2. For women with advanced breast cancer which does not appear to involve the bone (ABC), can bisphosphonates reduce the risk of the cancer spreading to the bone and improve survival? Will bisphosphonates reduce complications and improve quality of life? 
3. For women with metastatic breast cancer that has spread to the bone (BCBM), can bisphosphonates or denosumab reduce the risk of complication, and improve quality of life and survival? 
Study Results 
We found 44 studies involving 37,302 participants. We included studies published by September 2016. 
Study results for women with early breast cancer (EBC) 
For women with EBC, we included 17 studies with 26,129 participants. The women’s health was monitored for at least 12 months from the start of the study. Some studies monitored women for 10 years. 
The studies tested different types of bisphosphonate drugs and denosumab, and different doses of these drugs. Some studies compared the drugs to no treatment. Some studies used oral medications. Other studies gave the medicine as an injection into a vein or under the skin. 
Bisphosphonates probably lowered the risk of cancer spreading to the bone.
Bisphosphonates were found to improve survival, but the benefit in the whole group of women was small. Postmenopausal women had a benefit from bisphosphonates with improved survival and reduced risk of cancer returning. Premenopausal women did not have improved survival or reduced risk of the cancer returning. New studies that test bisphosphonates by the women's menopausal status are awaited. 
We await the reporting of data on survival and other important outcomes from denosumab trials. 
Study results for women with advanced breast cancer (ABC) 
For women with ABC that had not spread to the bone, we included three studies enrolling 330 participants. All three studies compared oral bisphosphonates to no treatment. 
Bisphosphonates did not reduce the risk of cancer spreading to the bone or improve survival. Very little information was available on complications and quality of life from only one study. 
Study results for women with metastatic breast cancer that has spread to the bone (BCBM) 
For women with BCBM, we included 24 studies enrolling 10,853 participants. Their health was monitored for at least 12 months. Some women were followed for 24 months. Most studies compared bisphosphonates to receiving no medication. 
Bisphosphonates reduced complications (fractures and bone pain). Bisphosphonates did not appear to increase the length of time women survived. Quality of life scores were slightly better for women receiving bisphosphonates compared to similar women having no bisphosphonates. 
Denosumab reduced the risk of complications compared to bisphosphonates in the three studies that collected these data. There was no benefit in survival from denosumab in the one study that collected data. 
