Effects of exercise training for adult lung transplant recipients
What is the issue? 
Lung transplant is often the final treatment option in people with chronic lung disease. It is suggested that patients who have had a lung transplant undertake exercise training in order to speed up their recovery. This should help with their return to usual activities and improve their quality of life. However, the exact benefits of exercise training on this patients are not clear and currently there are no clear guidelines to recommend how the exercise training should be undertaken. 
What did we do? 
We searched electronic databases and records of clinical studies and reviewed the references of research‐related to this topic. We aimed to identify studies that would help us understand the effects of exercise training in adult lung transplant recipients. We also evaluated the quality of the studies included in this review. 
What did we find? 
We found eight studies that met the requirements to be included in this review. Two studies compared resistance exercise training with usual care or no exercise training, three studies compared resistance exercise training with another type of resistance exercise training, two studies compared a multimodal exercise training (several different exercises) with usual care or no exercise training, and one study compared the same multimodal exercise training program undertaken for 7 and 14 weeks. 
We are very uncertain about the effects of exercise training for any of our outcomes. While some studies reported improvement in the distance walked over 6 minutes (exercise versus no exercise, different exercise programs) muscle strength (exercise or multimodal exercise versus no exercise) and bone mineral density (exercise versus no exercise), most reported no differences in adverse events, quality of life, pulmonary function, or the risk of death. 
The quality of evidence of the included studies was very low. Participants and study personnel were not blinded to the treatment they received due to the nature of the physical interventions and there was a frequent reporting bias. Besides, all estimates of results were imprecise mainly due to the small number of participants. 
