What are the most accurate tests for finding cancer of the mouth (oral cancer) and conditions that may lead to oral cancer? 
Why is it important to improve the detection of oral cancer? 
Persistent abnormal patches or sores in the mouth may represent mouth cancer or oral potentially malignant disorders (OPMDs). OPMDs can sometimes turn into mouth cancer, but if identified early enough patient outcomes can be improved. 
What is the aim of this review? 
Diagnosing mouth cancer involves the surgical removal of a piece of affected tissue (biopsy) that is then sent to a laboratory for examination of the cells using a microscope. This is painful for patients and involves a delay in finding out the results. The aim of this Cochrane Review review was to find out the accuracy of less invasive diagnostic tests that may provide more timely results. Researchers in Cochrane included 63 studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
Three tests used in addition to a visual examination were evaluated.
‐ Vital stain: a liquid that can be used as a mouthrinse or applied directly to a suspected abnormal area of the mouth. It is thought that any area that is coloured after applying this liquid has a high chance of being mouth cancer or an OPMD.‐ Oral cytology: a brush is used to remove cells from the suspected abnormal area that are sent to a laboratory for microscopic examination.‐ Light‐based detection: a special light shone in the mouth that is believed to make cancerous areas appear different to healthy areas. 
A small number of studies evaluated a combination of these tests. No studies evaluated the accuracy of tests of blood or saliva. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included 63 studies involving 7942 abnormal patches or mouth sores. Each study participant underwent one or more diagnostic tests as well as a surgical biopsy. 
The proportion of people in the included studies with mouth cancer or OPMDs identified through surgical biopsy ranged widely from 4% to 97%. Based on adults attending general dental practices in the UK, in a sample of 1000 lesions 25 would be mouth cancer or an OPMD, and 975 lesions would not be mouth cancer or an OPMD. 
