Do blood thinners prevent people who are hospitalised with COVID‐19 from developing blood clots? 
Key messages 
‐ High‐dose blood thinners result in little or no difference in death rate and increase minor bleeding compared to low‐dose blood thinners for people hospitalised with COVID‐19. Giving blood thinners compared to not giving blood thinners might reduce the death rate. 
‐ It is very likely that new studies will not change the evidence about the effects of different doses of blood thinners on death rate and minor bleeding. High‐quality studies are still needed to analyse the need for additional respiratory support, giving blood thinners compared to no blood thinners, comparing different blood thinners, and giving blood thinners for extended periods. 
What is COVID‐19? 
COVID‐19 typically affects the lungs and airways; however, in addition to respiratory problems, about 16% of people hospitalised with COVID‐19 experience problems with their blood vessels, leading to blood clots forming in the arteries, veins and lungs. Nearly half of all people with severe COVID‐19 in intensive care units develop clots in their veins or arteries. 
What are blood thinners? 
Blood thinners are medicines that prevent harmful blood clots from forming (deep vein thrombosis). However, they can cause unwanted effects such as bleeding. Some guidelines recommend giving blood thinners when people are first admitted to hospital with COVID‐19 to prevent blood clots from developing, rather than waiting to see whether blood clots develop and then treating them with blood thinners. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know whether giving blood thinners to people hospitalised with COVID‐19 as a preventive measure reduced the number of deaths compared to people who received no treatment or those who received a placebo treatment (an identical‐seeming treatment but with no active ingredient). We also wanted to determine whether these individuals needed less support with breathing, whether they still developed harmful blood clots, whether they experienced bleeding and whether they experienced any other unwanted events. 
