Memantine as a treatment for dementia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on memantine, which is one of the main drugs for treating people with dementia. We wanted to find out if memantine can slow down the course of dementia and if it is harmful in any way. We also wanted to know if adding memantine to other dementia drugs gives an extra effect. 
Background 
The commonest type of dementia is Alzheimer's disease (AD), followed by vascular dementia. About one or two people in 100 have AD at age 65, and this rate doubles every five years. Dementia involves loss of memory, difficulty thinking and often changes in mood and behaviour. 
There are two main types of treatment: acetyl cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) drugs and memantine. These drugs work differently and we wanted to find out whether giving the two drug types together would work better than the ChEI drugs on their own. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for as many relevant studies as we could find that had a reliable design (randomised controlled trials) and had compared memantine with placebo for each type of dementia. We found 44 studies involving about 10,000 people. Most studies (29 in 7885 people) were in people with AD. Most studies were well conducted, but some were not well reported and we got extra information from the drug companies. We analysed the results separately for people with mild dementia and those with moderate‐to‐severe dementia. 
Key results 
Memantine has a small beneficial effect in people with moderate‐to‐severe AD. This benefit affects thinking, the ability to carry on normal daily activities, and the severity of behaviour and mood problems. Overall, it is well tolerated in those with moderate‐‐to‐severe AD, but it may cause dizziness in a few of the people taking it. 
An important result is that adding memantine to established ChEI treatment also results in less deterioration than placebo. 
However, in people with mild AD, memantine is probably no better than placebo. This is mainly moderate‐quality evidence. 
In vascular dementia, two studies in about 750 people indicated there is probably a small benefit for thinking difficulties, behaviour and mood, and there may be less agitation for memantine compared with placebo. This is moderate‐ or low‐quality evidence. 
