Treatment using environmental enrichment for supporting rehabilitation following stroke and other brain injuries which do not get worse over time (non‐progressive brain injury) 
Background 
Rehabilitation helps with recovery after stroke and other non‐progressive brain injuries through therapy. However, outside of therapy hours, people may have very little to keep them stimulated. Environmental enrichment is a relatively new concept in rehabilitation where the environment itself is designed to be engaging and to include physical, thinking, and social activities like exercises and games. For example, a nursery for babies may be interesting and stimulating but a hospital environment for adults is generally not. The design of the environment alone should encourage (but not force) activities without additional specialised rehabilitation. 
Review questionWe wanted to find out whether treatment with environmental enrichment is better or worse than alternatives. 
Search dateThe evidence is current to 26 October 2020. 
Study characteristicsPopulation: we planned to include studies in which participants were adults who had had a stroke or a non‐progressive brain injury (such as traumatic brain injury but not dementia, Alzheimer's diease, or multiple sclerosis). 
Intervention: environmental enrichment interventions will usually include multiple activities, such as computers plus gaming technology plus music and reading. 
Comparison: we planned to compare environmental interventions with usual care (regular physiotherapy, speech therapy, occupational therapy) or alternative treatment. 
Outcomes: we divided outcomes into primary and secondary outcomes. Primary outcomes focused on psychological well‐being (anxiety, depression, stress) and coping. Secondary outcomes focused on quality of life, physical function, communication and cognitive function, and activity levels. We also planned to report adverse events. 
Key resultsWe found one trial that compared environmental intervention alone with usual care or alternative treatment. The trial included 53 participants who had had a stroke and was based in a hospital rehabilitation ward. The trial compared environmental enrichment (which included physical, cognitive and social activities such as reading material, board and card games, gaming technology, music, artwork, and computer with Internet) with standard services. The main outcomes related to psychological well‐being and coping. We were uncertain of the results because the trial was very small and highly prone to bias. 
