Long‐term pituitary down‐regulation before in vitro fertilisation (IVF) for women with endometriosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the efficacy and safety of treating women with known endometriosis (a disease characterised by the presence of endometrial tissue outside the cavity of the womb) with gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist medication for a period of three to six months prior to in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). We aimed to compare this intervention to no treatment prior to IVF/ICSI, pretreatment with long‐term continuous combined oral contraception (COC) or surgical treatment to remove endometriomas (cysts forming in the ovaries as a consequence of endometriosis). 
Background 
Many women affected by endometriosis suffer with infertility and may, as a result, seek IVF/ICSI treatment. IVF/ICSI is known to be less successful in women with endometriosis and a variety of interventions prior to IVF/ICSI have been proposed to try and improve outcomes. These include long‐term GnRH agonist therapy, long‐term continuous COC therapy or surgery to remove endometriomas. 
Study characteristics 
We found eight randomised controlled trials comparing long‐term GnRH agonist therapy with no pretreatment including a total of 640 women with endometriosis prior to IVF/ICSI. The evidence is current to January 2019. 
Key results 
Compared to no pretreatment, we are uncertain whether long‐term GnRH agonist therapy prior to IVF/ICSI in women with endometriosis affects the live birth rate. The evidence suggests that if the chance of live birth rate is assumed to be 36% with no pretreatment, the chance following long‐term GnRH agonist therapy would be between 9% and 31%. We are also uncertain whether this intervention affects complication rate, clinical pregnancy rate, multiple pregnancy rate, miscarriage rate, mean number of oocytes and mean number of embryos. No studies compared long‐term GnRH agonist therapy to long‐term continuous COC therapy or surgery to remove endometriomas. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence was of very low quality. The main limitations in the evidence were lack of blinding (the process where the women participating in the trial, as well as the research staff, are not aware of the intervention used), inconsistency (differences between different studies) and imprecision (random error and small size of each study). 
