Treatments for preventing recurrence of infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effect of treatments given to people with cystic fibrosis (CF) to prevent recurrence of infection with bacteria called Pseudomonas aeruginosa (PA) after it has been successfully treated. 
Background 
People with CF experience frequent, severe chest infections. These infections may be caused by bacteria that do not cause disease in healthy people, such as PA. PA is an important infection in CF since if it is not treated early it cannot be cleared from the lungs (termed chronic PA). When it cannot be cleared from the lungs, it causes ongoing damage to the lung tissue as well as worse chest infections. People with CF who have chronic PA may be more unwell than those without it. 
Early treatment can remove PA from the lungs of people with CF, but infection can happen again and is difficult to prevent. We want to know if giving extra treatment after the PA has been successfully treated, can prolong the time to the next infection. The treatment could be antibiotics or another treatment, for example something that helps the person's immune system fight the PA. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 21 August 2019.
Trial characteristics 
We included one trial with 306 participants. Only 253 of these people had had successful treatment of PA and so could be included in our review. There were only children in the trial who were aged between one and 12 years old; 51% were girls. The trial compared treatment with one month of an inhaled antibiotic every three months ('cycled treatment') with antibiotic treatment given only when the person was found to have PA ('culture‐based treatment'). People were selected randomly to have either cycled or culture‐based treatment. The trial followed people up for an average of 70 weeks. 
Key results 
Taking into the account the certainty of the evidence, we believe that the time to the next isolation of PA was probably shorter with cycled therapy than with culture‐based therapy. We found that PA recurred in a quarter of participants in the culture‐based group by 249 days but in the cycled group it took 505 days; giving cycled treatment doubled the time to a new infection with PA compared with culture‐based treatment. This is in contrast to the main publication of the only included trial, which looked at the rate of positive PA cultures rather than the time to a new infection of PA and included participants not eligible for inclusion in this review. There was no difference between the groups in: pulmonary function (a measure of how well someone's lungs are working); in the number of people having chest infections; in the change in height and weight from the beginning to th end of the trial; in how many people took all the doses of the medications; in how many people developed infections with new bacteria; or in how many people had a serious complication. The trial did not give information about the effect of the two treatments on individuals' quality of life, the time until the development of chronic PA or the cost‐effectiveness of the treatment. 
