Which drug is best for treating excessive bleeding after childbirth?
What is the issue?The most common reason why mothers die during childbirth is excessive bleeding, which is known as postpartum haemorrhage, when blood loss equals or exceeds 500 mL. This emergency condition is usually caused by failure of the uterus to contract and close the vessels that carried blood to the placenta. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends giving drugs that make the uterus contract more effectively (uterotonic drugs) and reduce the risk for excessive bleeding. Although these drugs are given to the mother immediately after the birth of her baby, some women will still experience heavy bleeding and will require further treatment. 
Why is this important?The administration of uterotonic drugs is the main treatment when prevention fails, and excessive bleeding occurs. Available uterotonic treatments include oxytocin, carbetocin, ergometrine, misoprostol, injectable prostaglandins, and combinations of these drugs, which differ in terms of effectiveness and side‐effects. The aim of this Cochrane Review is to identify the best drug with the least side‐effects for treating excessive bleeding after childbirth. 
What evidence did we find?We searched for evidence in May 2020 and found seven studies involving 3738 women. Women gave birth mostly vaginally in hospital settings and had received uterotonic drugs to prevent postpartum haemorrhage. The drugs used for treating heavy bleeding in these studies were misoprostol (tablets dissolved under the tongue, pills or rectal suppositories), oxytocin (given into a vein or muscle), a combination of misoprostol with oxytocin and a combination of Syntometrine® (ergometrine plus oxytocin combination injected into muscle) with oxytocin. 
Two studies, involving 1787 women, compared misoprostol with oxytocin for the initial treatment of excessive bleeding after birth. We found that misoprostol probably increases the risk of requiring a blood transfusion compared with oxytocin and may also increase the risk of suffering an additional blood loss of 1000 mL or more after initiation of treatment and until the bleeding stops. From the available data, we cannot learn much for the outcomes of suffering an additional blood loss of 500 mL or more, maternal death or severe illness related to excessive blood loss, and the need for additional uterotonic drugs to stop the bleeding. In terms of side‐effects, misoprostol increases the risk for vomiting and may also increase the incidence of fever compared with oxytocin. 
Four studies, involving 1881 women, compared misoprostol given in combination with oxytocin against oxytocin given alone. The drug combination makes little or no difference to the use of additional uterotonics, and blood transfusion compared with oxytocin given alone. However, we were not able to identify which of these drugs works best for reducing additional blood loss of 500 mL or more, additional blood loss of 1000 mL or more, and maternal death or severe illness related to excessive blood loss. In terms of side‐effects, the drug combination increases the occurrence of both fever and vomiting. 
One trial with only 64 women compared misoprostol with Syntometrine® combined with oxytocin. The available evidence was of very low certainty and thus we were unable to identify the best performing drug among them. 
We also compared the combination of misoprostol and oxytocin against misoprostol alone. These drugs have not been compared directly in studies. However, both drugs have been compared against oxytocin, and thus we were able to compare them indirectly. The drug combination probably reduces the risk of blood transfusion and may reduce the risk of additional blood loss of 1000 mL or more, but makes little or no difference to vomiting compared with misoprostol alone. However, we cannot learn much for the outcomes of additional blood loss of 500 mL or more, maternal death or severe illness related to excessive blood loss, use of additional uterotonic drugs, and fever. 
What does this mean?We found that oxytocin is probably more effective than misoprostol and is also associated with less side‐effects. Giving misoprostol together with oxytocin probably does not improve effectiveness and increases side‐effects. The evidence for most available drugs used as first‐line treatment of postpartum haemorrhage is limited, with no evidence found for several drugs currently in use. 
