Extracorporeal photopheresis for acute graft‐versus‐host disease after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in paediatric patients 
Background 
Acute graft‐versus‐host disease is a common complication after haematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT; transplant of blood‐forming stem cells). Immune cells (white blood cells) from the donor recognise the patient's cells as foreign ('non‐self'). Therefore, the transplanted immune cells attack the cells of the patient. The main affected organs are skin, liver and gut among other organ tissues. These immune reactions may cause acute inflammation (sudden swelling) followed by chronic (long‐term) changes of the organs (e.g. fibrosis; scarring of the lungs). First‐line therapy usually consists of immunosuppressive drugs (which reduce the strength of the body's immune system) such as corticosteroids in combination with other immunosuppressive agents in refractory cases (where the disease is resistant to treatment). The use of these immunosuppressive drugs is designed to suppress the immune‐mediated attack of the patient's cells. Limited effectiveness and severe side effects of these immunosuppressive drugs have led to the application of several alternative approaches. 
Extracorporeal photopheresis (ECP) is an immunomodulatory therapy that involves collection of immune cells from peripheral blood outside the person's body. These immune cells are then exposed to a photoactive agent (a chemical that responds to exposure to light; e.g. 8‐methoxypsoralen) with subsequent ultraviolet‐A radiation and then re‐infused. The immunomodulatory effects of this procedure have not been completely elucidated. 
Several current clinical practice recommendations suggest consideration of ECP in paediatric patients with acute graft‐versus‐host disease after HSCT. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) that were designed to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of ECP for the management of acute graft‐versus‐host disease in children and adolescents (under 18 years of age) after HSCT. 
Results 
The original version of this review and the first review update found no RCTs that analysed the efficacy of ECP for paediatric patients with acute graft‐versus‐host disease after HSCT. Current recommendations are based on retrospective (a study in which the outcomes have occurred to the participants before the study began) or observational (a study in which the investigators do not seek to intervene, and simply observed the course of events) studies only. We recommend the use of ECP in paediatric patients after HSCT only in the context of RCTs. 
