Resveratrol for adults with type 2 diabetes mellitus
Review question 
What are the effects of oral resveratrol supplementation compared with placebo, no treatment, anti‐diabetic medications, or diet or exercise, for the management of type 2 diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a chronic disorder characterised by increased opposition of the cells in the body to circulating insulin in the blood, possibly leading to long‐term complications in organs such as kidneys, eyes, nerves, and heart. Resveratrol is a plant‐based nutritional supplement found mainly in grapes, peanuts, blueberries, and mulberries. Many animal studies have shown it to have anti‐diabetic properties. Few human studies have been conducted so far, and it is very important that current evidence from well‐performed studies is synthesised to inform the public and researchers. 
Study characteristics 
We identified three randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with a total of 50 participants with type 2 diabetes. Among the included studies, the duration of resveratrol supplementation ranged from four to five weeks. Resveratrol as a capsule or Softgel was taken at 10 mg, 150 mg, or 1000 mg daily and was compared to placebo. 
This evidence is up‐to‐date as of December 2018.
Key results 
None of the included studies reported on important long‐term, patient‐relevant outcomes such as death from any cause, diabetes‐related death, diabetes‐related complications, health‐related quality of life, or impact on treatment costs. However, no side effects and no deaths were observed in these short‐term studies. No clear changes were observed for indicators of glucose management. We found eight ongoing studies with approximately 800 participants and two studies awaiting assessment, which, when published, could contribute to our findings. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The overall certainty of evidence from the included studies was very low, mainly because the number of participants and the number of studies reporting the outcomes were small . Also, the duration of the studies was very short. 
