The accuracy of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT for the detection of metastatic rhabdomyosarcoma in newly diagnosed patients 
Why is accurate staging of rhabdomyosarcoma important? 
Rhabdomyosarcoma (RMS) accounts for 3% to 5% of all childhood cancers. Treatment consists of multidrug chemotherapy and surgery and/or radiotherapy. Treatment for newly diagnosed patients depends on the extent of the cancer. Five‐year survival for patients with localised disease is around 75%, whereas it is below 30% for patients with disease that has spread to different part(s) of the body (metastatic disease). Survival for metastatic patients depends on the number of metastases as well as the site(s) of metastases. It is of great importance to accurately stage the extent of the disease because not recognising patients with metastatic disease would lead to undertreatment, whereas incorrectly identifying lesions as being metastatic would lead to overtreatment. 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT is a special imaging technique that could be helpful in visualising the extent of the disease in patients with newly diagnosed RMS. However, the accuracy (the ability to separate RMS metastases from other lesions) of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT is currently unknown. 
What was the aim of this review? 
We wanted to find out how accurate 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT is for the detection of bone and lung metastases and lymph node involvement in patients with newly diagnosed RMS. 
What was studied in this review? 
We searched scientific literature databases for studies comparing the results of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT to standard staging evaluation (histologic examinations (using a microscope to examine tissues and cells) or results of other imaging methods discussed by a multidisciplinary tumour board). The advantage of using 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT compared to standard staging evaluations would be the use of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT as a single diagnostic test to detect metastases, thus reducing patient burden and lowering radiation exposure. 
Main results 
We included two studies involving a total of 36 participants with RMS. Because of the low number of participants in the included studies and the differences in quality between studies, we were not able to calculate summary values of sensitivity (the proportion of patients who have the condition and who received a positive result on the test) and specificity (the proportion of patients who do not have the condition and who received a negative result on the test), and the reported results should be viewed with caution. 
The two included studies reported a sensitivity and specificity of 100% of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT for the detection of bone metastases. The sensitivity for the detection of lung metastases was 50% in one study, and could not be estimated in the other study; specificity ranged from 96% to 100%. In both studies, the sensitivity for the detection of lymph node involvement was 100%, and specificity ranged from 89% to 100%. 
How reliable are the results of the studies in this review? 
The main limitation of this review was that the findings were based on only two studies with a total of 36 participants and due to the design of the studies we considered them to be at high risk of bias on specific domains. 
In the included studies, histopathological (microscopic examination of tissue) confirmation was considered the optimal reference standard (the best available method to determine whether the condition is present or absent) to determine RMS metastases from other lesions; however, this was not done in all participants. In cases where no histopathological confirmation was done, the judgement of a multidisciplinary tumour board was considered the reference standard. Judgement of the multidisciplinary tumour boards was partly based on 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT imaging results, potentially resulting in overestimation of sensitivity and specificity. Furthermore, in one included study the participants all underwent the same diagnostic procedures, whereas in the other study this was not the case for all participants; this study did not clearly define what was considered a positive test result for 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT imaging. This might have biased the results. 
What are the implications of this review? 
The total number of studies and participants was too low to allow us to draw any firm conclusions. Large studies evaluating the accuracy of 18F‐FDG‐PET/CT in patients with RMS are needed. 
