Novel oral anticoagulants (DOACs) for the treatment of pulmonary embolism
Background 
Venous thromboembolism is a condition where a blood clot forms in the deep veins (DVT) (most commonly of the leg) and can travel up to block the arteries in the lungs (pulmonary embolism). Pulmonary embolism is life‐threatening and occurs in approximately 3 to 4 per 10,000 people. The chances of getting a pulmonary embolism can increase with risk factors, including previous clots, prolonged periods of immobility (such as travelling on aeroplanes or bed rest), cancer, exposure to oestrogens (pregnancy, oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy), blood disorders (thrombophilia) and trauma. A pulmonary embolism is diagnosed by determining the risk factors and scanning the lungs to check for a clot. If a pulmonary embolism is confirmed, patients are treated with an anticoagulant. This prevents further clots from forming. Until recently, the drugs of choice were heparin, fondaparinux and vitamin K antagonists. However, these drugs can cause side effects and have limitations. Recently two classes of direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) have been developed: direct thrombin inhibitors (DTI) and factor Xa inhibitors. There are particular reasons why oral DTIs and factor Xa inhibitors might be better medicines to use. They can be given orally, they have a predictable effect, they do not require frequent monitoring or re‐dosing and they have few known drug interactions. This review measures the effectiveness and safety of these new drugs compared with conventional treatment. 
Key results 
After searching for relevant studies up to January 2015, we found five studies with a combined total of 7897 participants. Studies compared oral direct thrombin inhibitors and factor Xa inhibitors with conventional treatment. We looked at whether treatment for three months prevented further blood clots and pulmonary embolism. The main safety outcomes included mortality and adverse events such as bleeding. This review showed that there was no evidence of a difference between direct thrombin inhibitors and standard treatment in preventing recurrent clots in the lungs or legs. For oral factor Xa inihibitors and the prevention of recurrent clots in the lungs, the studies were too different to form any meaningful conclusion. Furthermore, there was no evidence of a difference in recurrent venous thromboembolism, DVT, mortality or bleeding. No study measured health‐related quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
For the outcomes recurrent pulmonary embolism and all‐cause mortality when comparing oral factor Xa inhibitors and standard anticoagulation we downgraded the quality of the evidence from high to moderate due to the differences in results between the studies and the small number of studies included in this review. The quality of the evidence for all other outcomes was high. 
