Which inhaled corticosteroid and inhalation device has least impact on growth in children with asthma? 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about which inhaled corticosteroid and inhalation device has least impact on growth in children with asthma. 
Background 
Inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the most effective treatment for children with persistent asthma. Persistent asthma is a more severe asthma that requires daily use of medications for controlling symptoms. Although treatment with ICS is generally considered safe in children, daily use of these drugs over a long period of time may cause reduction of growth. The effect on growth may depend on type of steroid and delivery device. 
Study characteristics 
In this review, we included trials that compared either different inhaled corticosteroid drugs or inhalation devices, for at least three months in children aged from 4 to 12 years with mild‐to‐moderate persistent asthma. We found six trials involving 1199 people, and we included information from 1008 people in our analysis. Four trials compared the drug fluticasone with either beclomethasone or budesonide. Two trials compared different inhalation devices. Four trials were conducted in more than two different centres (multicentre studies). The multicentre studies were financially supported by industry companies that manufacture the drugs or devices. 
This systematic review did not include children with persistent asthma treated with other ICS besides beclomethasone, budesonide and fluticasone, or ICS combined with medications called long acting beta2‐agonists (LABA). Thus, evidence derived from this review does not apply for these people. 
Key results 
One trial with 23 people showed that fluticasone had less negative effects on children's growth compared to beclomethasone (low certainty evidence). Three trials compared fluticasone and budesonide, and showed some different results. The combined results of two trials with 359 people suggested that fluticasone had less negative effects on children's height compared to budesonide (moderate certainty evidence), while the combined results of another two trials with 236 people revealed similar growth velocity (average increase in height per year) between fluticasone and budesonide (very low certainty evidence). 
