eHealth interventions for people with chronic kidney disease
What is the issue? 
Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is a condition where kidneys have reduced function over a period of time. To remain well people with CKD need to follow complex diet, lifestyle and medication advice and often need to use several specialist medical services. Some people with advanced CKD may need dialysis or treatment with a kidney transplant. Enabling patients to manage this condition by themselves improves quality and length of life and reduces healthcare costs. Electronic health (eHealth) interventions may improve patients’ ability to look after themselves and improve care provided by healthcare services. eHealth interventions refer to "health services and information delivered or enhanced through the Internet and related technologies". However, there is little research evaluating the impact of eHealth interventions in CKD. 
What did we do? 
We focused on randomised controlled trials (RCT), which enrolled people with CKD (including pre‐dialysis, dialysis or kidney transplant), and compared eHealth interventions to usual care. 
What did we find? 
We found 43 studies involving 6617 people who had CKD that examined if eHealth interventions improve patient care and health outcomes. eHealth interventions used different modes of technology, such as Telehealth, electronic monitors, mobile or tablet applications, text message or emails, websites, and DVDs or videos. Interventions were classified by their intention: educational, reminder systems, self‐monitoring, behavioural counselling, clinical decision‐aids and mixed interventions. We categorised outcomes into nine domains: dietary intake, quality of life, blood pressure control, medication adherence, results of blood tests, cost‐analysis, behaviour, physical activity and clinical end‐points such as death. We found that it was uncertain whether using an eHealth interventions improved clinical and patient‐centred outcomes compared with usual care. The quality of the included studies was low, meaning we could not be sure that future studies would find similar results. 
