Does chewing gum after a caesarean section lead to quicker recovery of bowel function?
What is the issue? 
Many women deliver by caesarean section (CS) nowadays. The proportion of women who deliver by CS ranges from 15% to over 50%, in some countries. After a CS it is common for the bowel to stop working for several hours or days. Although this usually resolves by itself in a few days, it may be very uncomfortable. The retained gases and stools can cause the mother's belly to become swollen and painful with cramps and she may feel nauseated and vomit so she is not able to eat. She may need additional medications to ease these symptoms and her hospital discharge may be delayed. The use of medications that relieve pain during labour and painkillers following the surgery can also delay bowel function. 
Although early feeding after a CS can stimulate the gut, it could also lead to vomiting. That is why many obstetricians still withhold food until bowel sounds are detected and there is passage of gas, or flatus. Chewing gum can help the bowels to function again earlier, as shown with other types of surgeries. We wanted to see if it also worked after a CS. Chewing gum in the first 24 hours after the surgery is a simple and cheap intervention. 
What evidence did we find? 
We included randomised controlled studies published up to June 2016.
We found 17 studies, with 3149 women who had just delivered by CS. In these studies, a group of women chewed gum and a second group did not, receiving usual care. The studies were conducted in nine countries (mostly low‐ to middle‐income countries) and were different in many aspects. For instance, some studies included only women having their first baby and others included women with a previous CS; some studies included only elective (pre‐scheduled) CS and others also included emergency CS. The way that gum was given also differed in the studies; in some the women started chewing gum right after the CS and in others they waited for up to 12 hours. Also, the women could not be blinded to receiving the gum. The combination of the results (in a meta‐analysis) of these studies showed that the women who chewed gum after a CS had an earlier return of their bowel function. On average, they passed gas seven hours earlier (13 studies, 2399 women). This effect was consistent for first versus repeat CS, time spent chewing gum per day, early feeding versus nothing by mouth until the return of intestinal function, elective versus non‐elective or emergency CS, and length of time after CS when gum‐chewing was initiated. The quality of the evidence for this outcome was very low. The women chewing gum were at least half as likely to have 'ileus' (a combination of symptoms such as bloating, cramping, nausea, vomiting and inability to defecate) than the women who did not chew gum (four studies, 1139 women, low‐quality evidence). Gum chewing reduced the time to first defecation to about nine hours earlier (11 studies, 2016 women, very low‐quality evidence) and the time to hospital discharge by some eight hours (seven studies, 1489 women). Only three out of 925 women complained about having to chew gum and there were no reports of adverse effects associated with gum‐chewing (eight studies, 925 women, low‐quality evidence). None of the studies assessed women's satisfaction in relation to chewing gum. 
The overall quality of the evidence was low to very low, mostly due to lack of blinding of the participants (the women knew they were chewing gum) and heterogeneity between the studies. 
