Surgical tissue adhesives for preventing pancreatic fistula following pancreatic surgery
Review question 
Is surgical tissue adhesive able to reduce postoperative pancreatic fistula after pancreatic surgery? 
Background 
Postoperative pancreatic fistula is a complication that may follow major surgery for cancer or inflammation of the pancreas, a digestive gland situated at the back of the upper abdomen. The surgery involves disconnecting the pancreas from the nearby gut, and then reconnecting this to allow pancreatic juice containing digestive enzymes to enter the digestive system after surgical removal of the head of the pancreas. The pancreatic stump is often left to heal itself after surgical removal of the tail of the pancreas. A fistula occurs when the reconnection or stump does not heal properly, creating a leak of pancreatic juice from the pancreas to the abdominal tissues. This delays recovery from surgery and often requires further treatment to ensure complete healing. The role of fibrin sealants (surgical tissue adhesives) to reduce postoperative pancreatic fistula after pancreatic surgery is controversial. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for all relevant, well‐conducted studies up to March 2019. We included twelve studies which were divided into three comparisons. First, seven of the twelve studies randomised 860 participants undergoing surgical removal of the tail of the pancreas to either fibrin sealant use (428 participants) or no fibrin sealant use (432 participants) for pancreatic stump closure reinforcement. Second, four studies randomised 393 participants undergoing the 'Whipple' operation (surgical removal of the head of the pancreas) to fibrin sealant use (186 participants) or no fibrin sealant use (207 participants) for pancreatic stump reconstruction reinforcement. Third, two studies randomised 351 participants undergoing the 'Whipple' operation to fibrin sealant use (188 participants) and no fibrin sealant use (163 participants) for pancreatic duct blockage. 
