Ketamine and other glutamate receptor modulators for bipolar depression
Why is this review important? 
Bipolar disorder is one of the most severe mental health conditions characterised by episodes of mania (abnormally high mood or irritability amongst other symptoms for a short time), or hypomania (the same symptoms lasting for a shorter time) and major depression (low mood). The depressive phase of the illness is linked with a greatly increased risk of self‐harm and suicide. Current treatments for depression in bipolar disorder are not always effective and can be slow to work. Among the most promising new and alternative treatments are drugs called glutamate receptor modulators. These drugs work in a different way to the drugs usually used, such as antidepressants. This is an update of a review published in 2015. As more clinical studies have been published since then, it is important to update this review with the most recent evidence. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ People with bipolar disorder, their friends and families.
‐ General practitioners, psychiatrists, psychologists, and pharmacists.
‐ Professionals working in adult mental health services.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
1. Are ketamine and other glutamate receptor modulators better at treating bipolar depression than placebo (dummy pill) or other antidepressants?2. Do patients prescribed ketamine or other glutamate receptor modulators experience fewer side effects than people who take placebo or other antidepressants? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched medical databases to find all relevant studies completed up to 30 July 2020. These studies had to be randomised controlled trials (where people in the study are randomly assigned to receive either the drug being tested or a different drug or placebo to compare the results). To be included in the review, studies had to compare ketamine or other glutamate receptor modulators with placebo or other medicines in adults with bipolar depression. We included 10 studies (647 participants). The studies investigated five different glutamate receptor modulator drugs: ketamine (three trials), memantine (two trials), cytidine (one trial), N‐acetylcysteine (three trials), and riluzole (one trial). Nine studies compared glutamate receptor modulators with placebo, and one study compared ketamine with another drug. Most of the trials in the review included participants who were also receiving another medication (either lithium, valproate, or lamotrigine). We rated the certainty of the evidence 'very low' to 'low' across different comparisons, meaning that we cannot be confident that the results are a close representation of the truth. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
The effectiveness of glutamate receptor modulators was measured primarily as the number of patients whose symptoms of depression were reduced by 50% with treatment. A single dose of ketamine injected into a vein proved to be better than placebo, but this was based on very limited evidence (two studies with 33 participants), and its effect only lasted for up to 24 hours. No differences were found in side effects between ketamine and placebo, despite common reports of trance‐like states or dissociation (a dream‐like state in which body and mind are experienced separately). The small number of participants included in this review means that we cannot say for certain whether ketamine or glutamate receptor modulators work better than other antidepressants. No differences were found between memantine, cytidine, N‐acetylcysteine and placebo for numbers of people who responded to treatment or who experienced side effects, and no data were available for riluzole. 
What should happen next? 
Ketamine may or may not be an effective medication as an add‐on treatment to mood stabilisers in people with bipolar depression, but because the amount of data was small, we are unable to draw any firm conclusions. The data suggests that ketamine may work very quickly in bipolar depression, but that the effects only last for a short amount of time. All trials examined the effectiveness of ketamine when injected, which is less practical than other options such as taking a pill. Future research should focus on longer‐term use of ketamine compared with placebo and other drugs, so that we can draw confident conclusions about which treatments are more effective. More research is needed on the long‐term side effects, as some studies have shown that long‐term ketamine use is linked to memory problems. 
