Drugs to suppress the immune system after lung transplantation in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed evidence to find out the effects of individual drugs or combinations of drugs when they are given to prevent donor lungs being rejected following transplantation in people with cystic fibrosis. We only considered randomised studies (where it is decided at random which drug volunteers are given) comparing individual drugs or combinations of drugs to a placebo (dummy treatment with no active medicine) or to each other. 
Background 
Lung transplantation is an available and realistic treatment option for people with cystic fibrosis whose lungs are severely damaged. However, as a natural defence mechanism, the body recognises a transplanted lung as foreign and activates the immune system to reject it. This is known as graft rejection. To prevent this, drugs are needed to suppress the immune system after lung transplantation. There are several different types of such drugs that act by suppressing different components of the immune system. Much of the research on such drugs has focused on all people who have had a lung transplant and not specifically on those with cystic fibrosis. Currently, clinicians do not all agree on a common way of using anti‐rejection drugs in people with cystic fibrosis after they have received a lung transplant. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 29 May 2018.
Study characteristics 
Although we found five studies which looked at anti‐rejection drugs, they included people with a number of chronic conditions and not just cystic fibrosis. 
Key results 
The studies we found reported results from all volunteers combined and we were not able to isolate the results that were specific to people with cystic fibrosis. We contacted the researchers who conducted these studies, but they have not sent us the specific results we need.  
There is a review of drugs to suppress the immune systems of people who have had lung transplants (not restricted to those with cystic fibrosis) and this only included three studies which the review authors judged to have a high risk of bias. The review did not find that any one drug was better than another for reducing the chances of death or acute rejection; but one drug (tacrolimus) led to a lower risk of long‐term rejection and high blood pressure, although there was a higher risk of diabetes. 
Research is needed on the use of drugs that suppress the immune system in people with cystic fibrosis who have received a lung transplant. Due to the lack of research in this area, we do not plan to update this review again. 
