Fixation options of total knee replacement for osteoarthritis and other non‐traumatic diseases 
This summary of a Cochrane review presents previous research about the effects of cemented, cementless or hybrid fixation of total knee replacement (arthroplasty) for osteoarthritis and other non‐traumatic diseases.  
Through three high quality trials and 216 participants, we observed that:
‐ The risk of future aseptic loosening with uncemented fixation is approximately half that of cemented fixation in people with knee osteoarthritis and other non‐traumatic diseases. 
‐ Sixteen fewer people out of 100 had a future prediction of arthroplasty instability with uncemented fixation (16% fewer, ranging from 27% fewer to 5% fewer). 
‐ Thirteen people out of 100 had a future prediction of arthroplasty instability with uncemented fixation. 
‐ Twenty‐nine people out of 100 had a future prediction of arthroplasty instability with cemented fixation. 
These conclusions were based on an arthroplasty instability classification inferred from radiographic measures. 
We have no available evidence provided by this review regarding the survival rate of the implant (any change of a component), patient global assessments, functional measures, pain and health‐related quality of life measures. 
We often do not have precise information about adverse events and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious adverse events. Possible adverse events may include deep vein thrombosis and rare complications may include infections. 
What is osteoarthritis and other non‐traumatic diseases of the knee and what types of knee implant fixation methods are available? 
Osteoarthritis, also known as degenerative joint disease, has a variety of causes. Osteoarthritis can be classified as either primary or secondary, depending on whether there is an identifiable underlying cause. Most cases of the disease have no known cause and are referred to as primary osteoarthritis. Primary osteoarthritis is mostly related to aging. The causes of secondary osteoarthritis include rheumatoid arthritis, a disease in which the immune system attacks the joints (post‐traumatic causes were not included in this review). 
