Cognitive behavioural therapy for adults with tinnitus
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is effective for tinnitus. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
There is some low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence that CBT may reduce the negative impact that tinnitus can have on quality of life at the end of treatment, with few or no adverse effects (although further research on this is needed). 
What was studied in the review? 
Tinnitus is the perception of sound in the ear or head without any outside source. It is often described as a ringing, hissing, buzzing or whooshing sound. Tinnitus is mostly managed with education and/or counselling, relaxation therapy, tinnitus retraining therapy and ear‐level sound generators or hearing aids. CBT is a form of talking therapy that aims to change the patient's emotional and/or behavioural response to their tinnitus. This review looked at studies of CBT for adults who had had tinnitus for at least three months. Participants in the control groups either received no intervention, audiological (hearing) care, tinnitus retraining therapy or another type of treatment. The review authors studied the effect of CBT on tinnitus‐related quality of life, adverse effects, depression, anxiety, general quality of life and negatively biased interpretations of tinnitus. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 28 relevant studies, mostly from Europe, with a total of 2733 participants. The participants receiving CBT had treatment for between three and 22 weeks (mostly in clinics or online). 
When CBT was compared to no intervention there was low‐certainty evidence that CBT may reduce the negative impact of tinnitus on quality of life at the end of treatment. It is not known whether this effect persists in the longer term (six or 12 months). There were few or no adverse effects (only one adverse effect was reported in one participant among seven studies). CBT may also slightly reduce depression (low‐certainty evidence) and may reduce anxiety, although this finding is very uncertain. It is also uncertain whether CBT improves general quality of life or negatively biased interpretations of tinnitus. 
Compared to audiological care, tinnitus retraining therapy and other types of treatment, there were findings that CBT probably reduces the negative impact of tinnitus on quality of life. The certainty of this evidence ranged from moderate to low. Where reported, there were few adverse effects and no significant differences between the groups. For depression, anxiety and general quality of life the results were more mixed and the evidence less certain. There is moderate‐certainty evidence that CBT may reduce negatively biased interpretations of tinnitus compared to other types of treatment, but compared to audiological care and tinnitus retraining therapy the evidence is less certain. 
How up to date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to November 2019.
