Nutritional supplementation for people with non‐alcohol‐related fatty liver disease
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review?To find out if any form of nutritional supplementation decreases effects of non‐alcohol‐related fatty liver disease on lifespan, health‐related quality of life, chronic liver disease, and its complications, and whether nutritional supplementation causes any harm. 
Non‐alcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an accumulation of fat in the liver of people who have no history of significant alcohol consumption, use of medicines, disease such as hepatitis C virus infection, or other conditions such as starvation that can damage the liver. Fatty liver can lead to liver damage resulting in inflammation (non‐alcohol‐related steatohepatitis, or NASH) or liver scarring (liver cirrhosis). Various medical treatments have been tried for treatment of NAFLD. However, no current evidence suggests that any of them work. Nutritional supplementation has the potential to decrease liver damage, but whether this occurs is currently unclear. The authors of this review collected and analysed all relevant randomised clinical trials with the aim of finding out what is the best treatment. They found 202 randomised clinical trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups). During analysis of data, review authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. In addition, review authors used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature searchFebruary 2021. 
Key messagesOnly 19 trials were at low risk of bias, and because of this, uncertainty about the findings of this review is considerable. Studies that reported clinically important liver damage or its complications studied participants for a period of 2 months to 28 months. During this period, clinically important outcomes related to NAFLD such as death, liver‐related complications such as liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver decompensation (complications caused by scarring of the liver), liver transplantation, hepatocellular carcinoma (liver cancer), and death due to liver disease were rare, even without any treatment. No evidence suggests that any nutritional supplementation decreased these. A possible reason for complications of liver disease being rare in trial participants may be the short follow‐up period given in these trials (participants were followed only for a period of 2 months to 28 months). Liver‐related complications due to NAFLD develop over 8 to 28 years. Therefore, it is unlikely that differences in clinical outcomes can be noted in trials with less than 5 to 10 years of follow‐up. 
What was studied in the Review?This Review looked at people of any sex, age, and ethnic origin, with non‐alcohol‐related liver disease. Review authors excluded studies of people with previous liver transplantation. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 7 to 61 years. Participants were given different treatments including various vitamins and other nutritional supplements. Review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, severe liver damage, complications resulting from severe liver damage, liver cancer, and death due to liver damage ('clinical outcomes').What were the main results of the Review?The 202 studies included 14,200 participants. Study data were sparse. In all, 115 studies with 7732 participants provided data for analyses. Follow‐up of trial participants ranged from 1 month to 28 months (2 months to 28 months for trials that reported clinical outcomes). The Review shows the following.‐ The evidence indicates considerable uncertainty about effects of interventions on all clinical outcomes.‐ Well‐designed trials that collect data over longer follow‐up times are needed in the future to find out the best nutritional supplementation (if any) for people with NAFLD. 
