Electrotherapy modalities for rotator cuff disease
Background 
Rotator cuff disease is the most common cause of shoulder pain. People with rotator cuff disease often describe their pain as being worse at night and exacerbated by movement in specific directions, including overhead activity. It is often associated with loss of function and some people describe weakness. 
Electrotherapy modalities (also known as electrophysical agents) are types of physical therapy that aim to reduce pain and improve function via an increase in energy (electrical, sound, light, or thermal) into the body. Examples include therapeutic ultrasound, low‐level laser therapy (LLLT), transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS), and pulsed electromagnetic field therapy (PEMF). Electrotherapy modalities are delivered by various clinicians, including physiotherapists, chiropractors and osteopaths. In practice, people with rotator cuff disease seldom receive a single electrotherapy modality in isolation from other components of physical therapy treatment (for example manual therapy or exercise, or both). 
Study characteristics 
This summary of an updated Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the benefits and harms of electrotherapy modalities in people with rotator cuff disease. After searching for all relevant studies published up to March 2015, we included 47 trials (2388 participants). Among the included participants, 67% were women, the average age was 53 years, and the average duration of the condition was eight months. Electrotherapy was delivered for three weeks on average. 
Key results 
Pulsed therapeutic ultrasound versus placebo (inactive ultrasound) for six weeks in people with calcific tendinitis (based on one trial)  
Overall pain (lower scores mean greater pain reduction) 
People who had ultrasound had greater pain reduction than people who had placebo. Reduction in pain was 8.60 points more (ranging from 3.72 to 13.48 points more) at six weeks (17% absolute improvement). On a scale of 0 to 52 points, people who had ultrasound rated their reduction in pain score as ‐14.9 points, and people who had placebo rated their reduction in pain score as ‐6.3 points. 
Function (higher scores mean more improvement in function) 
People who had ultrasound improved more than people who had placebo. Improvement in function was 14.10 points more (ranging from 5.39 to 22.81 points more) at six weeks (14% absolute improvement). On a scale of 0 to 100 points, people who had ultrasound rated their change in function as 17.8 points, and people who had placebo rated their change in function as 3.7 points. 
Treatment success 
Thirty‐nine more people out of 100 rated their treatment as successful with ultrasound compared with placebo; 39% absolute improvement (ranging from 18% to 60% more improvement). Ninety‐one out of 100 people reported treatment success with ultrasound and 52 out of 100 people reported treatment success with placebo. 
