Angiotensin receptor blockers for the treatment of high blood pressure
A class of drugs called angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) is commonly used to lower high blood pressure. This class includes drugs such as losartan (brand name: Cozaar), candesartan (Atacand), eprosartan (Teveten), irbesartan (Avapro), telmisartan (Micardis) and valsartan (Diovan). We asked how much this class of drugs lowers blood pressure and whether there is a difference between individual drugs within the class. The available scientific literature was searched to find all trials that had assessed these questions. 
We found 46 trials that randomly assigned participants to take either an ARB or an inert substance (placebo). These trials evaluated the BP lowering ability of 9 different ARBs in 13 451 participants altogether. The trials followed participants for only 7 weeks (though people are typically expected to take anti‐hypertension drugs for the rest of their lives). The blood pressure lowering effect was modest.  There was an 8‐point reduction in the upper number that signifies the systolic pressure and a 5‐point reduction in the lower number that signifies the diastolic pressure.  Most of the blood pressure lowering effect (about 70%) can be achieved with the lowest recommended dose of the drugs.  No ARB appears to be any better or worse than others in terms of blood pressure lowering ability. 
Almost all of the trials in this review were funded by companies that make ARBs and serious adverse effects were not reported by the authors of half of these trials.  This could mean that the drug companies are withholding unfavorable findings related to their drugs.  Due to incomplete reporting of  the number of participants who dropped out of the trials due to adverse drug reactions, as well as the short duration of these trials, this review could not provide a good estimate of the harms associated with this class of drugs.  Prescribing the least expensive ARBs in lower doses will lead to substantial cost savings, and possibly a reduction in dose‐related adverse events.  
