Steroidal anti‐inflammatory medication given by mouth or injection for acute sinusitis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of steroidal anti‐inflammatory medication (i.e. corticosteroids) given by mouth or injection (i.e. systemically) compared to placebo or standard clinical care on acute attacks of nose and sinus complaints (i.e. acute sinusitis) in children and adults. 
Background 
Acute sinusitis may be caused directly by viral or bacterial infections and by the body's inflammatory response to these infections. Therefore, anti‐inflammatory treatments may be effective in treating this condition. Earlier reviews found only modest beneficial effects of corticosteroids given by nasal spray. It is unclear if this is because the intranasal corticosteroids did not actually reach the (blocked) nasal passages or because anti‐inflammatory drugs do not work. 
Study characteristics 
This review included evidence up to 19 February 2014. Five trials involving 1193 participants aged 15 years and older with acute sinusitis were included. In four trials participants received either antibiotics plus oral corticosteroids or antibiotics plus control treatment, while one trial assessed the effects of corticosteroids alone. Information on symptom relief was only available for the short term (two weeks or less) and no trial reported on relapse rates. No data for children were available. 
Key outcomes 
After combining trial findings, the results suggest that adults treated with oral corticosteroids plus antibiotics are more likely to have short‐term symptom relief than those receiving a placebo or non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug plus antibiotics. To benefit a single person, seven would need to receive treatment (number needed to treat to benefit). The trial assessing the effects of oral corticosteroids without antibiotics found no beneficial effects compared to placebo. Reported side effects in patients treated with oral corticosteroids were mild (nausea, vomiting, gastric complaints) and did not significantly differ from those receiving placebo. 
