Immunotherapy for advanced kidney cancer
Review question 
Kidney cancer is rarely curable once it has spread to other organs at the time of diagnosis. Targeted agents are currently considered as the standard treatment for advanced kidney cancer that has spread to other organs. This review examines clinical studies that have directly compared immunotherapies or combination therapies to current standard therapy. 
Background 
Prior to the use of the new targeted agents, drugs that boosted the immune response against the cancer in a non‐specific way (immunotherapies) were the most widely used treatment form for people with kidney cancer that had spread to other organs. Newer immunotherapeutic agents, including vaccines and so called 'checkpoint inhibitors,' have been developed to specifically target the body's immune system and enable it to recognize and attack cancer cells more specifically. In this review, we evaluated all types of immunotherapy or combination therapies by comparing it to the current standard therapy. 
Study characteristics 
A systematic search up to the end of October 2016 identified eight studies that looked at four different types of immunotherapy in 4732 people. Studies were only included if patients were randomized to a form of immunotherapy included in this review or a standard form of targeted therapy. One study was funded by a public institution whereas all the others were supported by drug companies. 
The study participants were generally representative of people with advanced kidney cancer. The majority of people had their kidney cancer removed before starting treatment. We compared studies of people who had previously received standard medicine (821 participants) to those of people who had not (3911 participants). All studies reported our main outcome of interest; the chance of longer survival including the survival for one year. We also focused on the frequency of severe treatment side effects, quality of life and the delay in disease worsening. 
Key results 
Interferon‐α was the most commonly used therapy option prior to the era of targeted therapies. Two studies with 1166 participants compared interferon‐α alone (monotherapy) to targeted standard therapy. Interferon‐α is probably inferior to tested targeted therapies called sunitinib and temsirolimus. Patients with interferon‐α monotherapy probably have a shorter time to worsening of cancer. They may have similar quality of life and a slightly more severe treatment side effects. 
Adding temsirolimus to interferon‐α probably does not improve survival compared to temsirolimus alone, but may result in more major side effects (one study). 
Two studies compared interferon‐α to a combination of interferon‐α and bevacizumab in 1381 previously untreated participants. There was a slightly increased death rate with probably fewer major side effects for people treated with interferon‐α alone. 
Two studies evaluated vaccines. Vaccines may lead to similar death rates and side effects in people with advanced kidney cancer. 
For patients who had already undergone systemic treatment, one study with nivolumab, a novel checkpoint inhibitor, improved average survival by more than five months when compared to the targeted standard therapy, everolimus. The effects are probably accompanied by better quality of life and fewer major side effects. 
