Occupational therapy for adults with problems in activities of daily living after stroke 
Review question  What are the effects of occupational therapy for adults with stroke on activities of daily living? 
Background  Different parts of the brain carry out different functions: seeing, sensation, balance, movement, understanding language, behaviour, problem solving, and emotion. A stroke occurs when the blood supply to part of the brain is cut off. If the blood supply is cut off to a part of the brain that carries out a particular function (such as seeing, moving arms and legs, or speaking), then these body parts or body functions will not work as they should. 
Activities of daily living (ADLs) are daily household‐based activities that people carry out to maintain health and well‐being. ADLs include eating and drinking, moving about, going to the toilet, personal hygiene, dressing and undressing, and grooming. When stroke changes how body parts or functions work, then the ability to carry out ADLs can become affected. 
For adults with stroke, the goal of occupational therapy is to improve ability to carry out ADLs. Strategies used by occupational therapists include activity‐based interventions, adaptive techniques, assistive technology, and environmental adaptations. 
Study characteristics  We found nine studies up to January 2017, involving 994 participants, that looked at the benefits of occupational therapy interventions for adults with stroke who had problems with activities of daily living. This is an update of the Cochrane review first published in 2006. 
Key result  We found that occupational therapy for people with stroke can improve their ability to carry out these daily activities and stop them deteriorating in those abilities. We found no evidence that occupational therapy reduced rates of death or the need to be cared for in an institution, or affected mood or distress of the participant. We did not collect data on carer‐related outcomes or participant satisfaction with the service. 
Quality of the evidence  There were few studies measuring our outcomes of interest and we judged the quality of the evidence to be of low‐quality. Many of the studies did not report methods sufficiently clearly and it was not possible to mask the occupational therapy from the person giving or receiving the treatment; this could also have influenced the results in our studies. We did not have sufficient good‐quality evidence to be certain of our results and we cannot be certain that future studies will not change these conclusions. 
