Do people with type 1 diabetes mellitus benefit from using a different type of insulin as their basal insulin? 
Background 
Diabetes is a condition that causes a person's blood sugar (glucose) level to become too high. Insulin is a hormone that is released by the pancreas (a small organ behind the stomach) which controls the blood levels of glucose. In people with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) the pancreas does not produce any insulin, so the person has to inject insulin to control the glucose levels and keep well. The goal of insulin therapy is to provide insulin that mimics physiologic insulin secretion. Insulin is given by an injection under the skin (subcutaneous) by means of insulin syringes, insulin pens or insulin pumps. In order to control blood glucose levels in periods of fasting, basal or background insulin is needed. Basal insulin can be given by means of daily or twice‐daily injections of an intermediate‐acting or (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin. Basal insulin can be given as intermediate‐acting human neutral protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin or as (ultra‐)long‐acting analogue insulin (synthetic insulin). Bolus insulin is taken at mealtime (prandial insulin) to control blood glucose levels following a meal and is given by means of short‐acting or rapid‐acting insulin. The aim for most people with T1DM is to achieve near‐normal blood glucose levels to avoid long‐term complications such as kidney and eye disease and to allow flexibility regarding time, type and amount of food intake. The major unwanted effect of insulin therapy is hypoglycaemia (low blood glucose) which can be severe. 
We wanted to find out whether one type of (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin compared with NPH insulin or another type of (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin is better for people with T1DM. The outcomes we were specifically interested in were death, health‐related quality of life, severe (night‐time) hypoglycaemia, serious unwanted events, non‐fatal complications of diabetes (heart attacks, strokes) and levels of glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) which is an indicator of long‐term glucose control. 
What did we look for? 
We searched medical databases and contacted pharmaceutical manufacturers and drug regulatory agencies for studies that:— were randomised controlled trials (medical studies where participants are put randomly into one of the treatment groups);— included people with T1DM;— compared one (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin with another (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin or NPH insulin;— lasted at least 24 weeks. 
What did we find?We found 26 studies including a total of 8780 participants (21% were children). The studies lasted between 24 weeks and two years. They compared:— NPH insulin with insulin detemir (nine studies);— NPH insulin with insulin glargine (nine studies);— Insulin detemir with insulin glargine (two studies);— Insulin degludec with insulin detemir (two studies);— Insulin degludec with insulin glargine (four studies). 
No study compared NPH insulin with insulin degludec.
Key results 
There were no clear differences for all main outcomes comparing (ultra‐)long‐acting insulin analogues with each other. 
Severe hypoglycaemic episodes were reduced with insulin detemir: among 1000 participants using NPH insulin, 115 would experience severe hypoglycaemia; using insulin detemir there would be 36 participants fewer (9 to 55 participants fewer) experiencing severe hypoglycaemia. However, the results were inconsistent, meaning if another study was performed there may not be a clear difference between insulin detemir and NPH insulin. There was no clear difference regarding the risk of severe night‐time hypoglycaemia. There were no clear differences for health‐related quality of life, serious unwanted effects or HbA1c levels. Very few people experienced a heart attack or died, and stroke was not reported. 
There were no clear differences comparing insulin glargine with NPH insulin for all main outcomes. Very few people experienced a heart attack, stroke or died. 
There were also no clear differences for all comparisons between children and adults.
Certainty of the evidence In the comparison of the insulin analogues detemir and glargine with NPH insulin, we are moderately confident about the results for death, severe (night‐time) hypoglycaemia, serious unwanted effects and HbA1c levels. We are uncertain about the effects on heart attacks, stroke and health‐related quality of life, mainly because there were only a few studies which did not last long enough to reliably investigate these outcomes. 
How up to date is this review?This evidence is up‐to‐date as of 24 August 2020. 
