Dietary supplements for pain during menstruation
Review question 
Cochrane authors reviewed the evidence of the effect of dietary supplements (e.g. vitamins, minerals, herbs) on period pain (dysmenorrhoea). 
Background 
Dietary supplements have been used in the treatment of period pain. It is important to explore their benefits and harms. We investigated the effectiveness of dietary supplements compared to other supplements, placebo, no treatment or conventional analgesics (pain relief) in women with either primary dysmenorrhoea (not related to any other diagnosis) or secondary dysmenorrhoea (related to other causes, such as endometriosis). The evidence is current to 23 March 2015. 
Study characteristics 
We included 27 randomised controlled trials (3101 women). Most participants were students in their late teens or early twenties with primary dysmenorrhoea. Most studies were conducted in Iran. Interventions included 12 different herbal medicines (chamomile, cinnamon, Damask rose, dill, fennel, fenugreek, ginger, guava, rhubarb, uzara, valerian, and zataria), and five non‐herbal supplements (fish oil, melatonin, vitamins B1 and E, and zinc sulphate) in a variety of formulations and doses. Supplements were compared with other supplements, placebo, no treatment, and non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs). 
Key results 
There was no high quality evidence to support the effectiveness of any dietary supplement for dysmenorrhoea, and evidence of safety was lacking. However, for several supplements there was some low quality evidence of effectiveness. Supplements for which there was some very limited evidence to suggest a potential benefit were fenugreek, ginger, valerian, zataria, zinc sulphate, fish oil, and vitamin B1. 
There was no strong evidence of benefit for melatonin compared to placebo for dysmenorrhoea secondary to endometriosis. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence was of low or very low quality for all comparisons. The main limitations were imprecision due to very small sample sizes, failure to report study methods, and inconsistency. For most comparisons there was only one included study, and very few included studies reported adverse effects. 
