Prevention of suicide in university and other post‐secondary educational settings
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effect of suicide prevention programs on post‐secondary students who are not known to be suicidal. We examined the effects of these programs on suicide, suicidal behavior, and knowledge and attitudes about suicide. 
Background 
Worldwide, suicide is a leading cause of death among post‐secondary students. Suicidal thoughts and planning are common among such students. However, fewer than half of students who report suicidal thoughts or other serious mental illness have received professional treatment. There is a need for suicide prevention programs that target students who are not already known to be suicidal ("primary prevention"). 
Study characteristics 
We identified eight studies that were eligible for this Cochrane Review. All studies had both primary and secondary prevention components. That is, they targeted students known to be suicidal as well as those not known to be suicidal. We separately analysed the effects of classroom instruction, institutional policies, and gatekeeper training programs. Gatekeeper training programs train people to recognize and respond to warning signs of emotional crises or suicide risk in students they encounter. The evidence is current to June 2011. 
Key results 
Three studies, including 312 students, evaluated classroom instruction. Classroom instruction increases short‐term knowledge of suicide and suicide prevention. It may slightly enhance short‐term confidence in ability to prevent suicide. However, long‐term effects have not been studied. Effects of classroom instruction on suicidal behavior have also not been studied. One study evaluated an institutional policy. The policy restricted access to laboratory cyanide and required professional assessment for students who threatened or attempted suicide. The policy significantly reduced student suicides. These findings have not been tested in other post‐secondary institutions. Four studies, ranging from 53 to 146 participants, evaluated the effect of gatekeeper training programs. Gatekeeper training may lead to small‐to‐medium improvements in short‐term suicide‐related knowledge and confidence about being able to prevent suicide. We found no evidence that gatekeeper training improved short‐term attitudes toward suicide or long‐term knowledge or behaviors about suicide. The effect of gatekeeper training on suicide or suicidal behavior has not been evaluated. 
