Giving aminoglycoside antibiotics intravenously once daily compared to giving them several times per day in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We looked for evidence to show the differences between giving intravenous antibiotics once daily compared to giving them several times a day when treating flare ups of disease (pulmonary exacerbations) in people with cystic fibrosis. This is an update of an earlier review. 
Background 
Most people with cystic fibrosis develop persistent lung infections and they may receive frequent courses of intravenous antibiotics to treat pulmonary exacerbations. Giving the antibiotics just once per day rather than several doses per day reduces the cost of treatment and the time involved. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 31 January 2019.
Study characteristics 
This review includes five studies with a total of 354 children and adults. All the trials compared once‐a‐day dosing with three times‐a‐day dosing. 
Key results 
The review found that when treating people with cystic fibrosis for pulmonary exacerbations, giving the antibiotics once per day was just as good at as giving them more frequently in terms of lung function and body mass index. The review also found that giving the antibiotics once per day appeared to be less toxic to the kidneys in children. There were no differences between the different treatment schedules for other outcomes that the studies measured. 
While once‐daily treatment can be just as effective and more convenient than three‐times daily treatment, we recommend further studies to look at the long‐term safety of this treatment schedule. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged that just one of the five studies carried a low risk that any design factors might affect the outcome results. In the remaining four studies, we thought that the fact that it was obvious whether the antibiotics were given once or three times a day could affect some outcome measures (e.g. lung function). Other risk factors were unclear or at low risk of bias. We assessed the evidence for lung function, body mass index and the evidence for side effects (e.g. toxicity) to be moderate to low quality. 
