Tapentadol for chronic musculoskeletal pain in adults
Pain in bones, joints, and muscles is very common and can often be persistent. It is expected that 50% of the general population will suffer from this type of pain for at least three months or longer during their lifetime. This condition is called chronic musculoskeletal pain. 
Opioids are a type of strong pain‐killer drug that are used to treat people that have moderate‐to‐severe chronic pain. People taking these drugs frequently have side effects, including severe side effects. 
This Cochrane review aimed to assess the effectiveness (reduction in pain intensity) and safety of tapentadol (a new opioid) in moderate‐to‐severe chronic musculoskeletal pain, in comparison to placebo (a pretend medicine) and other drugs that work for such pain. 
We performed a literature search in March 2014 for studies that compared tapentadol with placebo or other drugs in adults with musculoskeletal pain. 
We found four studies comparing tapentadol with placebo or oxycodone (another opioid) in 4094 adults. 
There was moderate‐quality evidence that 3 out of 10 people treated with tapentadol had at least 50% pain reduction (responded to the treatment) while only 2 out of 10 people treated with oxycodone and placebo responded to the treatment. 
There was also moderate‐quality evidence that tapentadol‐treated people were at a higher risk of withdrawal from the trial due to side effects in comparison to placebo (2 out of 10 tapentadol‐treated people and 1 out of 10 placebo‐treated people). For oxycodone‐treated people, 4 out of 10 withdrew due to side effects. Constipation, nausea and vomiting, and itching (pruritus) were less with tapentadol than with oxycodone but there was no difference in fatigue, insomnia, sleepiness (somnolence), and headache. 
The overall clinical benefit of tapentadol in moderate‐to‐severe chronic musculoskeletal pain found in clinical trials was relatively small (a common conclusion found in all opioids trials for chronic pain). Further studies are needed to find out which people with chronic musculoskeletal pain would benefit the most from this new opioid. 
