Asking men to pass a catheter into their own urethra to try to stop a urethral stricture from coming back 
BACKGROUND 
About one in 300 men are affected by a condition called urethral stricture where part of the urethra scars causing it to become narrow. Most urethral strictures are caused by injury or infection. The main symptom is difficulty passing urine. In at least half of patients, urethral strictures come back within two years after they have a surgical operation called optical urethrotomy to stretch their urethral stricture. For this reason there is considerable interest in finding ways to reduce the chance of a urethral stricture coming back. 
Intermittent self‐dilatation is a treatment designed to stop urethral strictures returning. The man passes a thin, usually disposable, catheter tube into the urethra himself at regular intervals to try to keep the scarred area from narrowing down again. It is thought to work by preventing the cut edges of a stricture from sticking together, but there are some risks including infection and injury to the urethra. 
We do not know whether intermittent self‐dilatation is a good treatment for urethral stricture. 
STUDY CHARACTERISTICS 
We found 11 trials involving a total of 776 men across eight countries for this review.
KEY RESULTS 
A combination of results from six trials involving a total of 404 participants indicated that men with urethral stricture who perform intermittent self‐dilatation may have less chance of their urethral stricture coming back than men with a urethral stricture who do not perform intermittent self‐dilatation. We can not be confident about this finding, however, because the quality of the evidence was very low. 
There were no trials that looked at whether intermittent self‐dilatation is a cost‐effective health care intervention and there were no trials that used reliable health questionnaires to find out whether intermittent self‐dilatation reduces men's urinary symptoms or improves their overall well being. 
