Prolonged antibiotics for purulent bronchiectasis in children and adults
Does prolonged antibiotic therapy provide benefit in treatment of patients with purulent bronchiectasis? 
Why is this question important? 
Non‐cystic fibrosis (CF) bronchiectasis is a chronic respiratory condition characterised by abnormal dilatation of the airways. Although its global prevalence is largely unknown, available data from Australia, New Zealand, the United States and England show that bronchiectasis is now diagnosed with increasing frequency. The lungs of patients with bronchiectasis have excessive secretions, which tend to consist of different types of micro‐organisms. Long‐term antibiotic therapy was proposed to halt persistent and ongoing damage to the lung due to insult from micro‐organisms. Therefore, we seek to assess the effects of prolonged antibiotic therapy on patients with bronchiectasis. 
How did we answer the question? 
We looked for all studies comparing prolonged antibiotic therapy versus usual care and/or a dummy medication (placebo). 
What did we find? 
We found 18 studies including 1157 people with non‐cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis; most were adults. Twelve studies used a tablet form of antibiotics (e.g. azithromycin, erythromycin, roxithromycin, amoxycillin, clarithromycin, penicillin, oxytetracycline, ciprofloxacin). The remaining six studies reported use of inhaled medications. Antibiotics were given for between four weeks and 83 weeks. In seven studies, similar disease severity at baseline was supported by the similar history of previous hospitalisation and severe attacks. 
Overall quality of evidence was rated as moderate. When an outcome is rated as high quality, further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect, but moderate ratings reflect some uncertainty in the findings. 
Conclusion 
Prolonged antibiotic therapy in bronchiectasis provides benefit, especially in reducing the risk of future exacerbations and hospitalisations. Antibiotics are well tolerated by participants without significant differences in overall adverse effects (e.g. intolerance, chest symptoms, fatigue, fever, palpitations). 
However, antibiotic resistance is a matter of concern, particularly for patients with drug allergies, which further limit their future treatment. 
