Rehabilitation for persons with multiple sclerosis
Review questions 
Do people with multiple sclerosis (MS), who participate in rehabilitation programmes, improve in their functional activities, disability, and quality of life compared with those who receive no rehabilitation treatment, placebo, or different types of interventions? 
Background 
MS is a complex condition, which requires comprehensive, long‐term management. Rehabilitation programmes aim to improve function, well‐being, and quality of life for people with MS. Currently, a wide variety of rehabilitation therapies are used to treat MS. Published literature, including Cochrane Reviews, that evaluates these interventions, has grown. To guide clinicians, this review assessed current Cochrane Reviews, and provides an overview of the effectiveness of rehabilitation therapies used to treat people with MS. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for all published Cochrane Reviews of MS clinical trials that evaluated the effectiveness of rehabilitation interventions compared with various control groups (no intervention or different type of intervention). We evaluated all relevant reviews, and summarised the findings. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
We included a total of 15 Cochrane Reviews, which included 168 clinical trials, and a total of 10,396 people with MS. These good‐quality reviews evaluated a range of rehabilitation interventions, including: physical activity and exercise therapy, hyperbaric oxygen therapy, whole‐body vibration, occupational therapy, cognitive and psychological interventions, nutritional and dietary supplements, vocational rehabilitation, information provision, telerehabilitation, and interventions for the management of spasticity. 
The findings showed some benefits for people with MS who participated in exercise and physical activity programmes or multidisciplinary rehabilitation programmes (where the intervention is provided by a team of health professionals from different professions). They found improvements in everyday activities, function, and health‐related quality of life, compared with those who were not offered rehabilitation. Evidence for other rehabilitation modalities was limited, due to lack of good‐quality studies. More research is needed to determine whether various types of rehabilitation modalities are effective in reducing disability in people with MS. 
