Supplemental oxygen for adults admitted to the intensive care unit
Review question 
We set out to assess whether more supplemental oxygen is better than less supplemental oxygen for adults admitted to the intensive care unit (ICU). 
Background 
Adults admitted to the ICU are critically ill and are at high risk of dying. Oxygen supplementation, or therapy, is given to most adults admitted to ICU, and many are mechanically ventilated. Severe illness can result in a lack of oxygen in the blood, known as hypoxaemia, which puts patients at risk of low tissue levels of oxygen (hypoxia) and organ failure. The use of sedatives and strong pain relief medications can also depress breathing and therefore oxygen levels. 
The practice of supplemental oxygen administration has been liberal, possibly resulting in too much oxygen, known as hyperoxia. Despite a lack of robust evidence of effectiveness, supplemental oxygen administration has been widely recommended in international clinical practice guidelines. However, a new guideline recommends against high oxygen levels as some, but not all, clinical studies have indicated a link between hyperoxaemia and an increased risk of dying. The potential benefit of supplemental oxygen must be weighed against the potentially harmful effects of hyperoxaemia. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 10 randomized controlled trials (studies where participants are randomly allocated to either an experimental or a control group) involving 1458 participants up to December 2018. Seven of the trials (1285 participants) provided findings on the number of deaths, serious adverse events, and lung injuries in the three months following oxygen therapy in the ICU. Lung injury was measured according to participants developing acute respiratory distress syndrome or pneumonia. Five trials included adults admitted to an ICU caring for patients with a range of serious health conditions and one to a surgical ICU. Two trials involved adults with traumatic brain injury; one trial adults after cardiac arrest and resuscitation; and one trial adults with stroke. All participants in six trials received invasive mechanical ventilation directly through a tube into the main airway. In one trial some of the participants were on mechanical ventilation, whilst others received non‐invasive oxygen administration. Three trials involved adults receiving non‐invasive oxygen. All trials compared more with less oxygen, however using very different levels of oxygen supplementation. Oxygen therapy was given for timeframes ranging from one hour to the length of hospital admission. 
