Keyhole (laparoscopic) surgery through the abdomen for treating urinary incontinence in women 
Review question 
We investigated whether keyhole surgery (laparoscopic colposuspension) was better than other types of surgery to treat urinary incontinence (leakage of urine) in women. We also compared different methods of laparoscopic colposuspension to each other. 
Background 
Urinary incontinence is a common debilitating problem for many women. Around a third of women of child‐bearing age leak urine during physical exertion or when they cough, laugh or sneeze. When urinary incontinence persists after non‐surgical treatment, surgery is often recommended. Laparoscopic colposuspension is an operation carried out through a small incision in the abdomen to hold and support the tissues around the neck of the bladder. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence is current up to 22 May 2019.
Study characteristics 
We identified 26 trials with 2271 women that either compared laparoscopic colposuspension with other types of surgery for managing urinary incontinence or compared different approaches of laparoscopic colposuspension. All the trials followed up the women for at least 18 months after surgery, with some trials lasting around five years. We looked at the robustness of each trial’s methods and the number of women involved to judge the quality of the evidence they presented. 
Key results 
High‐quality evidence means that we are confident that laparoscopic colposuspension with sutures (keyhole surgery with stitches) is as effective as open colposuspension (traditional surgery) for curing incontinence in the short term (up to 18 months after surgery). However, we are not sure whether there are fewer risks of complications during and after surgery with laparoscopic or open colposuspension. 
Procedures using a midurethral sling (a sort of hammock that supports the neck of the bladder) may be as effective as laparoscopic colposuspension in curing urinary incontinence in the short term and avoiding surgical complications. Women may be less likely to need repeat surgery with a ‘sling’ than with laparoscopic colposuspension. We are not sure about these results because the evidence was low quality. 
Laparoscopic colposuspension with two sutures may be better than with one suture for curing urinary incontinence in the short term, and for reducing the risk of voiding dysfunction and the need for more surgery, but there may be little difference between laparoscopic colposuspension with two sutures or with one in terms of surgical complications. Again, we are not sure about these results because the evidence was low quality. 
We are very uncertain whether laparoscopic colposuspension with mesh and staples is better than open colposuspension or laparoscopic colposuspension with sutures for curing urinary incontinence. We are also very uncertain whether women who have laparoscopic colposuspension with mesh and staples or with sutures need less repeat surgery. We are very uncertain about the results because the quality of evidence was very low. 
The evidence that we found relating to the effect of laparoscopic colposuspension on quality of life was inconclusive and could not be generalised. 
Quality of the evidence 
In general, the quality of the evidence was low. This means that we cannot be certain about the overall effectiveness of laparoscopic colposuspension compared to other treatments for urinary incontinence due to low numbers of women participating in the trials, risk of bias, and differences between trials in the statistical results. 
