The evidence is current to April 2014. We found three studies (from four reports) involving a total of 22 children aged three to nine years who received a combination of NSOMTs and articulation or phonological therapy (intervention group), or articulation or phonological therapy alone (control group). One study was a randomised controlled trial in which four boys with speech sound disorders were randomly assigned to one of the two groups. In this study, each participant received 16 × 30‐minute individual therapy sessions, twice per week over eight weeks, to treat the speech sound 's'. For the intervention group, NSOMT (oral placement therapy) was conducted in the first 10 minutes of each session, followed by 20‐minute articulation therapy. The other two studies used randomisation, but the method used to generate the random sequence was not reported. In one of these studies, six boys and four girls, all with speech sound disorders due to tongue thrust, were randomly assigned to one of the two groups. Each participant received 22 × 30‐minute individual sessions conducted weekly in the first six weeks, and twice a week in the following eight weeks, to treat 's' and 'z' sounds. The intervention group received NSOMT (Hanson's 1977 approach) in the first six weeks and alternating sessions of NSOMT and articulation therapy in the following eight weeks. The final study randomly assigned four boys and four girls with moderate to severe articulation disorder alone to either intervention group or control group. Each participant received 9 × 20‐minute group therapy sessions (two participants in each group), conducted twice a week over five weeks. For the intervention group, NSOMT (oral motor exercises for speech clarity) was conducted during the first 10 minutes of each session. Speech errors associated with the 's' sound were treated for the intervention group; however, the speech sound(s) treated for the control group were not detailed. None of the studies reported funding support. 