Using information and communication‐based prompting for patients with serious mental illness 
Recently there has been an increase in the use of ICT (Information Communication Technology) for the delivery of information to people with severe mental illness. ICT is considered to be any technical means of delivering information and communication and can include use of telephones, television, radio, computers and hand‐held devices. 
People with severe mental health problems often have difficulties with 'treatment compliance' i.e. following their treatment programme. They can have difficulty remembering to take medication or appointment times. Unpleasant side effects of medication can also lead to people stopping medication, and a lack of insight into their illness can mean they do not see the need to follow treatments. Non‐compliance with treatment can lead to poor health outcomes and even relapses and hospitalisation. There are several methods healthcare professionals use to help people with serious mental illness improve compliance; once such method is prompting. The purpose of prompting is to help patients to follow the treatment instructions and keep the treatment appointment times by using reminders via telephone calls, personal visits or posted referral letter. More recently, Information and technology‐based prompts are being used. This review investigates the effectiveness of ICT‐based prompts in order to support treatment compliance among patients with serious mental illness. A search for randomised controlled trials was run in 2012. Two trials that compared the use of ICT prompting compared with standard care could be included. Review authors rated the quality of data in these as 'moderate' or 'low'. Because of the small amount of data, it is impossible to say whether ICT‐based prompts are effective. Only one trial measured medication compliance. The study suggested that ICT‐based prompts may help people take their medication, but clear evidence of a benefit is missing. There were some positive effects for patient insight. However, insight was only better in the medium term and appeared to show no difference in the short term. Further, some positive effect was found in patient satisfaction with treatment, although the results for the analyses were imprecise. Also, mental state and quality of life showed minor improvement. There were no clear evidence that either intervention is less acceptable than the other. Outcomes such as service use, behaviour, costs or adverse effects were not presented in the studies. There is an ongoing trial, but additional well‐conducted trials are needed. 
