Oncoplastic breast‐conserving surgery (O‐BCS) for women with primary breast cancer
Background 
Traditional surgery for early breast cancer is standard breast‐conserving surgery (S‐BCS) which aims to keep as much of the breast as possible. For women with large tumours compared to their breast size it can be difficult to conserve the breast whilst ensuring all the tumour is removed and may mean that mastectomy is needed. The most important part of surgical treatment for breast cancer is removing all cancer. In recent years, oncoplastic breast surgery techniques have been used to conserve the breast whilst removing breast cancer by applying the principles of plastic surgery, resulting in better cosmetic results. Oncoplastic breast‐conserving surgery (O‐BCS) may also result in better patient satisfaction and quality of life. 
Traditionally, surgeons have either preserved the breast tissue by removing the cancerous lump (S‐BCS) or reconstructing immediately after mastectomy. O‐BCS involves removing cancer and either moving/adjusting the remaining breast tissue around (volume displacement) or bringing in tissue from elsewhere to fill the defect after breast cancer removal (volume replacement). There are many techniques that fall under O‐BCS that we have listed in full in other parts of the review; however, all are similar in their principle. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of O‐BCS (that is, removing some of the breast tissue and then reconstructing the remaining breast by either mobilising the breast tissue (mammaplasty or volume displacement) or bringing the tissue from elsewhere (partial breast reconstruction or volume replacement)) compared to other S‐BCS (that is, removing the tumour in the breast without the need for further breast adjustment) or mastectomy (that is, removing all the breast tissue with or without reconstruction). We studied the effect on cancer‐related (local recurrence, disease‐free survival and overall survival), quality of life and cosmetic outcomes in women with breast cancer. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to August 2020. We included 78 studies involving 178,813 patients with breast cancer. We split the studies into those that compared O‐BCS to S‐BCS, O‐BCS to mastectomy alone and O‐BCS to mastectomy with reconstruction. Some studies contributed to more than one comparison. 
Key results 
It seemed that O‐BCS resulted in similar rates of local recurrence (that is, whether cancer returned in the same breast) and disease‐free survival (free of any breast cancer after initial treatment) when compared to S‐BCS, and resulted in less need for a second re‐excision surgery (which may be required if the tumour is not fully removed in the first operation). O‐BCS may result in more complications and more biopsies in the years after the surgery compared to S‐BCS. It seems that O‐BCS may give better patient satisfaction and surgeon rating for the look of the breast, but the evidence for this is of poor quality, and due to lack of numerical data, it was not possible to pool the results of different studies. 
It was not possible to conclude whether or not cancer outcomes of local recurrence and disease‐free survival for O‐BCS were similar to mastectomy with or without reconstruction as there were not many good‐quality studies. It seems O‐BCS has fewer complications than surgeries involving mastectomy. 
In practice, the decision to select O‐BCS should be done through shared decision making with the surgeon, discussing the potential risks and benefits. 
