Steroids for the treatment of influenza
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence regarding the effect of additional ('adjunctive') steroid treatment in individuals with influenza infection. 
Background 
The majority of individuals with influenza have a fever, headache, and cough and improve without any specific treatment. However, a small proportion of patients develop a more severe form of influenza that requires admission to a hospital intensive care unit. These patients are often prescribed steroids as part of their treatment, although the evidence supporting the use of steroids in these circumstances is controversial. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies comparing additional steroid treatment with no additional steroid treatment in individuals with influenza. The evidence is current to 3 October 2018. We identified a total of 30 studies with 99,224 individuals; one of these studies was a clinical trial. The majority of studies investigated adults admitted to hospital with pandemic influenza in 2009 and 2010. 
Key results 
We found one relevant clinical trial, but there were very few participants (n = 24) with laboratory‐confirmed influenza. The certainty of the evidence available from existing observational studies was of very low. We found that people with influenza who received additional steroid treatment may have a greater risk of death compared to those who did not receive steroid treatment. Hospital‐acquired infection was the main 'side effect' related to steroid treatment reported in the included studies; most studies reported a greater risk of hospital‐acquired infection in the group treated with steroids. However, it was unclear whether patients with more severe influenza had been selected to receive steroid treatment. Consequently, we were unable to determine whether additional steroid treatment in people with influenza is truly harmful or not. Further clinical trials of additional steroids in the treatment of individuals with influenza are therefore warranted. In the meantime, the use of steroids in influenza remains a clinical judgement call. 
Certainty of the evidence 
In the one controlled trial there were only 24 participants with confirmed influenza infection, and there was under‐representation of the sickest patients in the intensive care unit and with sepsis. 
The rest of the evidence was from observational studies, and we classified the certainty of this evidence as very low. A major limitation was that the indications for corticosteroid therapy were not fully specified in many of the studies; corticosteroids may have been used as a final attempt in people with the most severe disease, or conversely they may have been used to treat less severe illnesses that occurred simultaneously such as asthma exacerbations. It was noted in some studies that there was high degree of association between the use of corticosteroids and the presence of potentially confounding factors such as disease severity and underlying illnesses, suggesting that confounding by the indication for corticosteroids was likely if not adjusted for when determining effect estimates. We noted inconsistent reporting of other important variables that may be related to influenza‐related death across studies, including time to hospitalisation, the use and timing of antiviral drugs and antibiotics, and the type, dose, timing, and duration of corticosteroid therapy. Additionally, for studies in which this information was reported, there were differences between studies in the way that disease severity was measured, the time point at which death was assessed, and the proportions of cases and controls treated with antivirals and/or antibiotics and in the type, dose, timing, and duration of corticosteroid therapy. 
