Nasal saline for allergic rhinitis
Background 
Allergic rhinitis is inflammation (swelling and/or irritation) of the inside of the nose caused by allergies. It is common in both children and adults. Allergic rhinitis can be intermittent (fewer than four days per week, or four weeks per year) or persistent (more than four days per week, or four weeks per year). The allergy can be caused by many different things but common allergens (things causing allergy) are: grass or tree pollen, mould, dust mites or animal dander (tiny flakes of skin). People with allergic rhinitis experience symptoms (nasal obstruction, runny nose, nasal itching and sneezing) that may affect their quality of life. 
Nasal saline irrigation (also known as nasal douche, wash or lavage) is a procedure that rinses the nasal cavity with saline (salt water) solutions. How saline works is not fully understood but it is probably through making the mucus (snot) thinner, making it easier to remove and also removing some of the allergens from the nose that cause irritation. Nasal saline irrigation can be performed with sprays, pumps or squirt bottles. Saline solutions can be isotonic (the same concentration of salt that is found in the body ‐ 0.9% NaCl) or hypertonic (more salty than found in the body ‐ more than 0.9% NaCl). Although saline irrigation is thought to be safe there have been reports of epistaxis (nosebleeds) and irritation or discomfort in the nose and ears. This therapy is available without prescription and can be used alone or as an add‐on to other pharmacological treatment for allergic rhinitis, such as intranasal (in the nose) steroids and oral antihistamines). 
Search date 
The evidence is up to date to November 2017.
Study characteristics 
We found 14 studies with a total of 747 participants (260 adults; 487 children). The volume of saline used in the studies varied: five studies used 'very low' volumes (nasal sprays providing less than 5 mL saline per nostril per application), two studies used low‐volume (between 5 and 59 mL saline per nostril per application introduced with a syringe) and four studies used high‐volume solutions (more than 60 mL per nostril per application). Eight studies used hypertonic saline, five used isotonic saline and three studies did not provide this information. Two studies used two different types of saline solutions. 
Study funding sources 
Seven studies did not say how they were funded. The other seven were funded either by the investigators' department or research grants from regional or national government. No studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
