Immune treatments for peripheral neuropathy caused by an IgM paraprotein antibody, which may bind to MAG, a protein on the myelin sheath of nerves 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of immune treatments for peripheral neuropathy caused by an IgM paraprotein antibody that may bind to myelin‐associated glycoprotein (MAG)? 
Background 
There are several types of antibodies in the human body. They are more or less specifically adapted to recognise a target, usually a 'foreign' protein such as a bit of a bacterium, virus or tumour. In some people too much of one type of antibody is made, called a paraprotein. Some of these paraproteins are of the IgM class (IgM antibodies are usually an 'early attack force' type of antibody). Some of these antibodies may react against myelin‐associated glycoprotein, also known as MAG. MAG is a molecule on the insulating myelin sheath of nerves. The antibody probably results in damage to the nerve myelin to which it is bound and thus causes a specific type of damage to the nerves, known as a peripheral neuropathy. Anti‐MAG paraprotein‐associated peripheral neuropathy is a condition affecting more men than women, most commonly over the age of 60 years. It causes progressive sensory symptoms, unsteadiness and tremor, and sometimes some weakness of the feet and lower legs. 
Treatments that act on the immune system such as plasma exchange (which removes circulating antibodies and replaces blood plasma with a clean plasma substitute), intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg; antibodies that have been purified from donated blood), rituximab (which kills some of the cells that produce the antibody), corticosteroids, or anticancer drugs might be expected to reduce levels of these neuropathy‐causing IgM antibodies and slow or prevent progression of the disease. 
Study characteristics 
Many of these therapies have been tried in non‐randomised studies, but we found only eight small randomised controlled trials (RCTs), involving 236 participants, that met our criteria for inclusion. 
Results and quality of the evidence 
Two trials with 22 and 11 participants (20 with antibodies against MAG) suggest that IVIg may sometimes produce short‐term measurable benefit and is relatively safe, but the benefit is of doubtful clinical significance. No severe adverse effects related to IVIg were reported in these trials. A trial of cyclophosphamide and corticosteroids showed some mild benefit. Two trials of rituximab demonstrated a positive benefit of rituximab, but this evidence was of low quality because of small numbers of participants and concerns about the design of one of the two studies. Reported adverse effects of rituximab were few, and mostly minor. Other trials did not allow us to draw conclusions about the efficacy of other agents and reported few serious adverse events. We need large, well‐designed RCTs to assess the efficacy of the existing and new therapies, and better ways for doctors and researchers to detect changes that people report in response to treatments. 
The evidence is up to date to February 2016.
