Anaesthesia or analgesia during the manual removal of a retained placenta
We looked for evidence from randomised controlled trials on the effectiveness and safety of different types of anaesthesia (drugs that produce a partial or total loss of feeling and sensation) and analgesia (drugs that reduce pain) during the manual removal of a retained placenta in women who have just given vaginal birth. 
What is the issue? 
The placenta is attached to the lining of the uterus during pregnancy. After the baby is born, the placenta separates, and uterine contractions push it out. When the placenta does not come away within 60 minutes after a vaginal birth, it is referred to as a retained placenta. 
Anaesthesia can be general or regional, using the spinal or epidural routes; medications for pain and relaxation, such as fentanyl, midazolam, diazepam, or ketamine, can be given intravenously. We wanted to find out which types of anaesthesia and analgesics were the most effective and safe for women undergoing the manual removal of a retained placenta. 
Why is this important? 
A delay in the removal of the placenta may result in excessive blood loss that can be life threatening, and require a blood transfusion. Therefore, a retained placenta needs to be removed quickly. When the placenta is removed from the uterus by hand, it is called manual removal. This causes considerable discomfort and pain. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence to September 2019. We found one small, randomised controlled study that took place in a hospital in Papua New Guinea. The study involved 30 women who were undergoing the manual removal of a retained placenta. It compared an injection of the local anaesthetic, lidocaine, around the cervix (paracervical block) and intravenous medication pethidine and diazepam, for pain relief and relaxation. 
This study did not report on pain intensity or adverse events.
The study did report that none of the women experienced a postpartum blood loss of more than 500 mL. 
We are uncertain about the providers' satisfaction with the procedure (defined as their perception of good pain relief during the procedure), and the women's satisfaction with the procedure (defined as their perception of good pain relief during the procedure). 
