Interventions for managing oral ulcers in Behçet's disease
Review question 
This review has been conducted to assess the effects of different interventions, administered systemically or topically, for the prevention or treatment of oral ulcers in people with Behçet's disease. The interventions could be compared with an alternative intervention, no intervention or the administration of a placebo. 
Background 
Behçet's disease is a chronic disease characterised by a multitude of signs and symptoms including oral and genital ulcerations, skin lesions and inflammatory vascular involvement of the central nervous system and gastrointestinal tract. Although the underlying cause of Behçet’s disease is unknown it is thought to involve a genetic predisposition combined with environmental factors. 
Behçet's disease most commonly presents in the third decade. The disease is rare in individuals older than age 50 years and during childhood. Although both sexes are equally affected, it is thought that the disease has a more severe course amongst men. 
The oral ulceration that occurs in Behçet's disease can be painful and slow to heal. At its worst, this can cause significant difficulties in eating and drinking. 
Study characteristics 
Authors from Cochrane Oral Health carried out this review of existing studies and the evidence is current up to 4 October 2013. The review includes 15 studies published from 1980 to 2012 in which 888 participants were randomised. Eleven of the trials were conducted in Turkey, two in Japan, one in Iran, and one in the UK. Thirteen different interventions were assessed, administered either topically or systemically. 
Topical interventions: sucralfate, interferon–alpha (different doses), cyclosporin A, triamcinolone acetonide ointment, phenytoin syrup mouthwash. 
Systemic interventions: aciclovir, thalidomide (different doses), corticosteroids, rebamipide, etanercept, colchicine, interferon–alpha, cyclosporin. 
Key results 
There was insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of any included intervention with regard to pain, episode duration or episode frequency associated with oral ulcers, or the safety of the interventions. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence ranged from moderate to very low.
