Red blood cell transfusion for people undergoing hip fracture surgery
Background and aims 
Most people who break their hip (hip fracture) are over 65 years old. Almost all hip fractures require surgery. People with hip fracture often receive red blood cell transfusions that aim to correct their anaemia (low levels of haemoglobin in the blood; haemoglobin is an oxygen‐carrying molecule found within red blood cells) resulting from blood loss from their fracture or surgery. However, blood transfusion is not without risk. We aimed to look at the evidence for the use of red blood cell transfusion in people undergoing surgery for a broken hip. We wanted to find out whether and when blood transfusion is of benefit and whether there are better alternatives to transfusion for these people. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to 20 November 2014 for studies that compared red blood cell transfusion versus no transfusion or an alternative to transfusion, different transfusion protocols or different transfusion thresholds in people undergoing any type of surgery for hip fracture. We found six studies (2722 people), all of which compared two different 'transfusion thresholds' for a red blood cell transfusion. The trials compared a liberal red blood cell transfusion threshold (giving a transfusion when the haemoglobin concentration was less than 10 g/dL) with a restrictive red blood cell transfusion threshold (giving a transfusion only when the person had symptoms of anaemia or when the haemoglobin concentration was less than 8 g/dL). Five studies applied these thresholds after surgery. The average age of trial participants was over 80 years and around three‐quarters were women. 
Key results 
We found no difference between the two transfusion threshold groups in the number of people who had died at 30 and 60 days after their operation. We found similar numbers of people in the two groups were unable to walk 10 feet (3 metres) or across a room without help at 60‐day follow‐up. 
We were interested in the number of major complications following surgery (thromboembolism (blood clots), stroke, chest and wound infection, and cardiovascular events (heart attacks, heart failure or abnormal heart rhythms)). There was little difference between the two transfusion threshold groups in the number of people experiencing any of these major complications. Although we found the risk of a heart attack was lower in people treated with the liberal red blood cell transfusion threshold than in people treated with the restrictive red blood cell transfusion threshold, we are very unsure of this finding. 
