Comparison of different protein concentrations of human milk fortifier for promoting growth and neurological development in preterm infants 
Review question 
Among preterm infants, does the amount of protein used to fortify breast milk feeds result in any difference in growth and neurodevelopmental (development of the brain to improve performance or functioning (e.g. intelligence, reading ability, social skills, memory, attention or focus skills) outcomes? 
Background 
Breast milk is the best form of nutrition for preterm infants. However, as preterm infants often have difficulties tolerating large amounts of milk, they may not get the recommended amounts of protein from breast milk alone. It has become common clinical practice to fortify breast milk for preterm infants with additional nutrients with a product known as human milk fortifier. Over time the amount (concentration) of protein used in human milk fortifiers has increased, but there is debate about what the optimal protein concentration of human milk fortifier is. 
Study characteristics 
This review included nine trials involving 861 infants. Six trials compared a high versus moderate concentration of protein in the human milk fortifier, and three trials compared a moderate versus low concentration of protein. Our main outcomes were growth (e.g. weight, length, head circumference), neurodevelopment and death. Reporting was incomplete for all outcomes; most were at low or unclear risk of bias. The search is up to date as of August 2019. 
Key results 
Feeding preterm infants with a human milk fortifier that contains a high protein concentration versus a moderate protein concentration resulted in small increases in weight gain but not length gain or head growth during hospital admission after birth. There were small increases in weight gain and length gain in infants fed a human milk fortifier that contained moderate concentrations of protein compared with low concentrations. There was no clear effect of protein concentration on infant death during the initial hospitalisation. There were only limited data on other health outcomes, and this evidence suggests the amount of protein in human milk fortifier does not affect the risk of infections or feeding or bowel problems. There were no available trial data about infant growth after hospital discharge, or long term development. 
Conclusions 
Although there was some evidence that use of human milk fortifiers with a high or moderate protein concentration are associated with small increases in weight gain during hospital stay, there are no data about the impact on growth after the hospital admission or on developmental outcomes. Further well designed trials are needed to determine whether the amount of protein in human milk fortifiers is associated with benefits or harms in the longer term. 
