Skin puncture versus exposing the femoral artery for minimally invasive repairs of abdominal aortic aneurysms 
Background 
Abdominal aortic aneurysms are a ballooning of the largest blood vessel in the abdomen, the abdominal aorta, due to weakness of the vessel wall. This ballooning may lead to life‐threatening rupture. Repair of the aneurysm is recommended if the risk of rupture is calculated to be greater than the risk of surgery. Most repairs involve putting in an artifical graft, a tube composed of fabric, to help reinforce the artery wall. There are two main methods for repair. One is an open technique in which the whole abdomen is opened and the graft is used to replace the diseased part of the vessel. The other technique is an endovascular aneurysm repair. With this technique the graft is fed into the abdominal aorta through an artery in the groin (the femoral artery) and avoids the large abdominal incision. This review looked at an alternative method for introducing the graft into the femoral artery, percutaneous access. Instead of making an incision in the groin to expose the femoral artery (a cut‐down), a needle is inserted to the femoral artery then a flexible guide wire inserted through the needle. The needle is removed and a plastic tube introduced into the femoral artery over the guide wire (percutaneous access), with a small cut in the skin to allow the passage of the plastic tube. Once introduced, the guide wire can be removed leaving the tube in place in the artery. The graft and all other materials can then be fed into the artery via the plastic tube. Once the procedure is complete the tube can be withdrawn. The surface incision can usually be closed with one stitch. 
Study characteristics and key results 
This update found two studies comparing the cut‐down artery access with the percutaneous technique (current to October 2016). One was a small study with 30 participants, the other a larger more robust study with 151 participants. The large study was found to be of high quality with little risk of bias. The smaller study did not report on the methods of randomisation, how the randomisation was concealed and the pre‐selected outcomes of interest. Combined, the studies had 181 participants; 116 underwent the cut‐down technique and 65 the percutaneous technique. 
Both studies compared rates of death, major complications, wound infections, bleeding complications, and length of the operation. Overall, we did not find any difference in the rates of death (moderate‐quality evidence), major complications (moderate‐quality evidence); or bleeding complications between the percutaneous and cut‐down techniques (high‐quality evidence). No one developed a wound infection (moderate‐quality evidence). The surgery took less time (moderate‐quality evidence) in the percutaneous group compared with the cut‐down group. 
