Treatment of unintentional drooling of saliva in motor neuron disease
Review question 
To assess the effects of treatments for drooling of saliva in motor neuron disease (MND), which is also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
Background 
Unintentional drooling of saliva (sialorrhea) is a distressing symptom suffered by many people with MND because of difficulty swallowing. The management of sialorrhea currently involves the use of suction, drug treatments and more invasive approaches, including injection of botulinum toxin to the salivary (parotid and submandibular) glands, radiotherapy to the salivary glands, and surgery to tie off the salivary gland ducts. This is an update of a review first published in 2011. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane review authors identified four trials that could be included in the review.
In the first, 20 people with MND received a single injection of botulinum toxin or placebo (dummy treatment) into the salivary glands on each side of the head. 
Another study compared botulinum toxin and radiotherapy and was not blinded (which means that neither the participants nor the staff knew whether active or placebo treatment had been administered). Since the outcomes all involved patient opinions, there is some uncertainty about the results. Furthermore, the investigators tested five doses of botulinum and three doses of radiotherapy in a group of 20 people, making it difficult to interpret results. 
A third trial was a cross‐over study of DMQ, a combination of dextromethorphan hydrobromide and quinidine sulfate. The 60 people with MND who took part were randomly allocated into two groups; one group received DMQ for about a month, had a drug washout (drug‐free period) for about two weeks and then received placebo for about a month; the second group started with placebo for a month, before being switched to DMQ after the washout period.  
The fourth study administered scopolamine (hyoscine) patches or placebo patches to 10 people with severe MND. A cross‐over design was used, with two treatment periods of seven days and a washout period for seven days in between. 
