Treatments for stomach pain in Crohn's disease
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether treatments in people with Crohn's disease can improve stomach pain. 
We analysed data from 14 studies to answer this question.
Key messages 
Based on low‐quality evidence, electrical brain stimulation may improve stomach pain compared to fake brain stimulation. 
It is unclear whether there is any difference between a low FODMAP (a group of sugars found in food) diet and a diet that is not low in FODMAP in improving stomach pain. 
It is unclear whether there is any difference between a stress management programme, self‐directed stress management, and standard treatment only, in improving stomach pain. 
We were unable to draw any conclusions about the safety of any of the interventions.
It is unclear whether any of the treatments for the other comparisons under study are better or worse than another, as the evidence was limited due to the very low numbers of studies and participants and low quality of the reporting. 
Further research that addresses the quality issues we have highlighted is needed.
What was studied in the review? 
People with Crohn's disease commonly suffer stomach pain whether their disease is active or inactive. 
Several types of therapies have been used to try to reduce pain in Crohn's disease, including diets, psychological therapies, alternative therapies, drugs, and exercise therapies. 
There is currently no agreement amongst healthcare providers as to which therapy is better. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) comparing any treatment with any other treatment (such as dummy/placebo treatments) in people with Crohn's disease. We found 14 trials including a total of 743 participants who were aged 16 to 80 years old. We made the following conclusions. 
• Electrical brain stimulation may be better than fake brain stimulation in improving pain, based on low‐quality evidence• It is unclear whether a low FODMAP diet or a diet that is not low in FODMAP is better in improving pain.• It is unclear whether a stress management programme, self‐directed stress management, or standard treatment only is better in improving pain.• It is unclear whether there is any difference between any of the other therapies in their effects on the management of pain.• It is unclear whether any therapy leads to a difference in major and minor side effects. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
This review is up‐to‐date as of April 2021.
