Neuromodulators for pain management in rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of neuromodulators on pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 
The review shows that in people with rheumatoid arthritis 
‐ Nefopam, topical capsaicin and oromucosal cannabis may improve pain levels
‐ Oromucosal cannabis may slightly improve sleep
‐ No trials were found that evaluated whether neuromodulators affect functional status, quality of life, withdrawals due to inadequate analgesia or depression 
We also do not have precise information about serious side effects and complications. Possible side effects of nefopam that were found in the trials include nausea, dry mouth, sweating and feeling tired. However, rare complications have also been reported and include convulsions and cardiac arrhythmias. 
Common side effects of topical capsaicin therapy include local skin irritation and burning. More serious allergic reactions are rare but have been reported. 
Possible side effects of oromucosal cannabis found in this review were dizziness, fatigue and loss of balance. Readers should be aware that, although not seen in our review, rarer complications including psychosis and suicidal thoughts have also been reported. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what are neuromodulators? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. 
Neuromodulators are broadly defined as substances which alter the way nerves communicate with each other and, consequently, the overall activity level of the brain. By acting on these nerve signals it is thought that these drugs can reduce the amount of pain felt by an individual. Neuromodulators sometimes used in pain management include the anticonvulsant agents (drugs used to prevent seizures); oral, intramuscular or intravenous ketamine; oral or intravenous nefopam; topical capsaicin, cannabis based medications (oral, oromucosal or inhaled); and more recently intra‐articular botulinum toxin. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take neuromodulators 
Oral nefopam 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain)
‐ People who took nefopam rated their pain 21 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100 after 2 weeks treatment with nefopam (21% absolute improvement) 
‐ People who took nefopam rated their pain as 18 on a scale of 0 to 100 after 2 weeks
‐ People who took a placebo rated their pain as 39 on a scale of 0 to 100
Total adverse events
‐ 27 more people out of 100 experienced an adverse event after 4 weeks treatment with nefopam (absolute difference 27%). These were predominantly nausea (56%), sweating (44%), insomnia (11%), pruritus (11%) and malaise (11%). They completely settled once treatment was ceased 
