Desmopressin use for reducing the need for blood transfusion for people having an operation 
Review question 
Could desmopressin (a medicine that can be used to prevent bleeding) reduce the need for blood transfusion when people have surgery? 
Background 
Blood loss is common during major surgery. Blood transfusions can replace blood that has been lost. Risks associated with blood transfusion include reactions against the blood, and – particularly in low‐ and middle‐income countries – infection. 
Desmopressin is a medicine commonly known as DDAVP (an abbreviation of its chemical name: 1‐deamino‐8‐D‐arginine vasopressin). It is used for people born with problems that put them at risk of bleeding, and may help people who do not have bleeding disorders. DDAVP may have side effects; for instance, it might increase risk of heart attack or stroke, or cause low blood pressure when it is given. 
Study characteristics 
We investigated whether giving DDAVP reduced the need for blood transfusion in people having surgery. 
We searched the medical literature to 3 April 2017. We identified 65 relevant trials with 3874 participants (adults and children). All trials assessed the effects of giving DDAVP before, during, or immediately after surgery or more minor procedures like biopsies. Most trials focused on adult heart surgery, or bone and joint surgery. Fewer trials focused on heart surgery for children, plastic surgery, surgery on blood vessels, or liver surgery. The trials were conducted between 1986 and 2016. Eleven were funded by pharmaceutical companies or by a party with a commercial interest in the trial’s outcome. 
Key results 
Compared with placebo (an inactive substance that looks the same as the substance being tested, i.e. DDAVP) or no treatment, DDAVP may slightly reduce the amount of blood transfused in adult heart surgery. DDAVP may lead to little or no difference in the amount of blood transfused in heart surgery for children, bone and joint surgery, surgery on major blood vessels, or liver surgery. DDAVP probably leads to little or no difference in the total number of people who receive a blood transfusion. Whether DDAVP increases or reduces total blood loss is uncertain because the quality of evidence is very low. DDAVP may lead to little or no difference in the risk of death, heart attack, or stroke. 
For people who are more vulnerable to bleeding because they are taking an antiplatelet medicine that stops their blood from clotting normally, DDAVP may lead to a reduction in the total volume of red cells transfused and in total blood loss. It probably leads to little or no difference in the number of people receiving a red cell transfusion. Whether DDAVP increases or reduces the risk of death, heart attack, or stroke is uncertain because the quality of evidence is very low. 
Compared with tranexamic acid (a medication used to treat or prevent excessive blood loss) DDAVP may be less effective in reducing the volume of blood transfused and total blood loss. Whether DDAVP increases or reduces the number of people who receive a blood transfusion, or risk of death, heart attack, or stroke is uncertain because the quality of evidence is very low. 
Compared with aprotinin (another medication used to reduce bleeding) DDAVP probably increases the number of people who receive a blood transfusion. Whether it increases or decreases the risk of a heart attack or stroke is uncertain because the quality of evidence is very low. No trials comparing DDAVP against aprotinin reported the volume of blood transfused, total blood loss, or risk of death. 
None of the 65 trials assessed quality of life.
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of evidence as very low to moderate for the outcomes above. We considered many of the trials to be at high risk of bias and noted inconsistency and imprecision in their results. 
Conclusion 
Overall, differences in transfusion and blood loss when people were treated with DDAVP or placebo were small and unlikely to be clinically important. It is possible that people who are more vulnerable to bleeding, such as those taking antiplatelet agents, may gain more benefit from DDAVP. Few trials compared DDAVP against tranexamic acid or aprotinin; consequently, we are uncertain whether DDAVP is better or worse than these agents. 
