Treatment for hepatitis C virus‐associated cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis
What is the issue? 
Nowadays, the second most frequent chronic viral infection in the world is hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection, before new direct‐acting antiviral agents therapy has appeared. HCV causes chronic liver disease as well as extra‐hepatic symptoms, one of the most common being mixed cryoglobulinaemia. Immunoglobulins that precipitate at low temperature (below 4ºC) and re‐dissolve after warming to 37ºC are called cryoglobulins ("cryo" comes from the Greek word for cold). Cryoglobulins cause organ damage via two main routes: hyperviscosity syndrome and immune‐mediated mechanisms. This causes cryoglobulinaemic vasculitis, which is the manifestation of an inflammation of small and medium‐sized vessels produced by a pathogenic protein called IgM with rheumatoid factor activity generated by an expansion of B‐cells. The immune complexes formed precipitate mainly in the skin, joints, kidneys and peripheral nerve fibres. We wanted to assess the effects of any treatment for skin, joints, kidneys or peripheral nerve fibres damage that occurs in HCV infection. 
What did we do? 
We identified 10 randomised controlled trials (RCT) enrolling 394 participants that met our inclusion criteria. This review looked at three possible strategies to control the disease and to investigate their impact on short and long‐term outcomes: elimination of HCV infection by using interferon or new direct‐acting antiviral agents, removal of cryoglobulins by using of immunoadsorption apheresis, or deletion of B‐cell clonal expansions by using of rituximab. These strategies could be utilized in adults usually in combination with antiviral agents. 
What did we find? 
Considering the limitation of the lack of studies with new direct‐acting antiviral agents, some benefits in terms of skin, nerve or kidney illness where found when rituximab, antiviral treatment with IFN or immunoadsorption apheresis were used compared to using other immunosuppressive drugs. These three interventions were not compared head‐to‐head. 
Conclusions 
To treat HCV‐associated mixed cryoglobulinaemia, it is always recommendable to eliminate HCV infection by using any antiviral treatment (in this review we only evaluated interferon treatment because no RCT with new antivirals looking at this disease have been published). Depending on the extend of mixed cryoglobulinaemia HCV‐related disease it would be recommended to combine antiviral treatment with deletion of B‐cell clonal expansions by using of rituximab or with removal of cryoglobulins by using of immunoadsorption because of their faster and more long‐lasting improvement of skin, joints, kidneys or peripheral nerve fibres injury. Studies with new antivirals are urgently needed to guide therapy. 
