Probiotics for treatment of chronic constipation in children
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether probiotics can be used to treat chronic constipation without a physical explanation in children (aged 0 to 18 years). 
We analysed data from 14 studies to answer this question.
Key messages 
We were unable to draw conclusions when comparing probiotics to placebo for frequency of defecation in children treated for chronic constipation without a physical explanation. There may be no difference in treatment success between the two groups. 
There may not be a difference in frequency of defecation or treatment success when comparing probiotics and laxatives to using laxatives alone. 
We were unable to draw conclusions when comparing probiotics to magnesium oxide for frequency of defecation or treatment success. 
There may be a higher frequency of defecation in children treated with synbiotic preparations compared to placebo. 
There may not be a difference in participants withdrawing from the studies due to adverse events when comparing probiotic preparations to placebo. 
We were unable to draw conclusions on the safety of any of the other comparisons due to the low number of people who withdrew from the studies. 
What was studied in the review? 
Children often suffer from constipation for long periods of time, and when there is no underlying physical cause that can be found we call it 'functional constipation'. 
It has been suggested that probiotic and synbiotic preparations might help improve symptoms in these children. Probiotics are preparations that contain living bacteria that have been proposed to be beneficial to the digestive system. Synbiotics also include food substances that support the growth of these bacteria. 
There is currently no consensus about whether this is the case, or how these preparations are best used. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) comparing any probiotic or synbiotic treatment with any other treatment (such as dummy/placebo treatments) in children with chronic constipation without a physical explanation. We found 14 trials including a total of 1127 participants who were aged under 18. We made the following conclusions.• There may be no difference in treatment success when comparing probiotics to placebo.• We were unable to draw conclusions on whether there is a difference in the frequency of defecation.• There may be no difference in treatment success when comparing probiotics and laxatives to laxatives alone.• We were unable to draw conclusions on frequency of defecation or treatment success when comparing probiotics to magnesium oxide.• Synbiotics may be better than placebo in improving the frequency of defection.• There may be no difference in how many people withdrew from the trials because of side effects when comparing probiotics to placebo, or probiotics and laxative to laxative alone.• We have limited confidence in the evidence because the studies only included a small number of children, and due to lack of detail on some of the methods used. 
All analyses were limited due to differences in the specific probiotics or the treatments they were compared with, low numbers of children included in the studies and, most importantly, the use of a range of different measures of success. This meant that combining studies was difficult, so the overall ability of this review to answer its core questions was limited. 
What next? 
Future studies are needed to find out how helpful probiotics are for childhood constipation. Researchers need to agree whether probiotics should be a first option therapy, an add‐on to other therapies, a second option after other therapies have failed, or a combination of all the above. 
Future research should measure the same items (known as a core outcome set) to ensure these results can support future reviews. 
