Azapirones versus placebo for panic disorder in adults
Why is this review important? 
Panic disorder is common in the general population and is often associated with various psychiatric disorders. Azapirones are a class of drugs occasionally used in the treatment of panic disorder, although none has been approved by a regulatory agency for this purpose. They are associated with less drowsiness, psychomotor impairment, alcohol potentiation and potential for addiction or abuse. However, azapirones are not widely used for panic disorder. Evidence for their efficacy in treating panic disorder is unclear. It is important to find out if azapirones are effective and acceptable in the treatment of panic disorder. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Patients and general practitioners.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review aims to answer the following questions for panic disorder in adults:
1. Are azapirones more effective than placebo? 2. Are azapirones more acceptable than placebo? 3. What kind of adverse effects do azapirones have compared with placebo? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched electronic database to find all relevant studies published between 1950 and January 2014. To be included in the review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials that compared azapirone with placebo for panic disorder in adults. We include three studies involving a total of 170 people in the review. All three looked at the same type of azapirone, a drug called buspirone. The review authors rated the quality of the evidence as 'low' to moderate'. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There was not enough information to work out whether azapirones are any more or less effective than placebo in causing substantial improvements in panic disorder overall. 
A small amount of moderate‐quality evidence suggests that the acceptability of azapirones for panic disorder is lower than for placebo. 
There was not enough information to compare any differences in adverse effects caused by azapirones and placebo. 
What should happen next? 
Studies with larger sample sizes and fewer risks of bias should be carried out. Studies should report how participants were allocated to each treatment, and whether the trials were financially sponsored by the manufacturer of the drug. Study protocols should be registered to avoid selective reporting of outcomes by authors. 
Trials need to test azapirones other than buspirone to determine their effectiveness.
Remission or response should be reported as the efficacy outcome and longer‐term outcomes need to be addressed to establish whether the effect is transient or durable. 
