Interventions based on individual assessment of falls risk and multiple component interventions for preventing falls in older people in the community 
Review question 
To assess whether fall‐prevention strategies which target two or more risk factors for falls (multifactorial interventions) or fixed combinations of interventions (multiple component interventions) are effective in preventing falls in older people living in the community. 
Background 
As people age they are more likely to fall. Although most fall‐related injuries are minor, they can cause significant pain and discomfort, affect a person's confidence and lead to a loss of independence. Some falls can cause serious long‐term health problems. A combination of factors increases the risk of falls with ageing, such as weak muscles, stiff joints, hearing problems, changes in sight, side effects of medications, tiredness or confusion. Poor lighting, slippery or uneven surfaces, and issues with poor footwear can also increase the risk of falling. 
Different interventions have been developed to help prevent falls in older people. They may involve a single type of intervention, such as exercise to increase muscle strength, or combinations of interventions, such as exercise and adjustment of a person's medication. A combination of two or more components can be delivered as either a multifactorial intervention based on an assessment of a person's risk factors for falling or as a multiple component intervention where the same combination of interventions is provided to all participants. 
Search date 
We searched the healthcare literature for reports of randomised controlled trials relevant to this review up to 12 June 2017. 
Study characteristics 
We included 62 randomised trials involving 19,935 older participants. Most trials included more women than men; the average ages in the trials ranged from 62 to 85 years. Trials compared the interventions to an inactive control group receiving usual care (no change in usual activities) or a matched level of attention (such as social visits) or to an active control group receiving an exercise programme. 
Key results 
We identified 43 trials that compared a multifactorial intervention with an inactive control. Multifactorial interventions led to some reduction in the rate at which people fall compared with the inactive control group, but the quality of evidence was low because of large differences in how studies were conducted. There may be little or no difference in the number of people who experienced one or more falls (fallers), recurrent falls, fall‐related fractures, or experienced a fall requiring hospital admission or medical attention. Multifactorial interventions may make little difference to people's health‐related quality of life. There was very limited evidence on adverse events related to the intervention; all 12 reported musculoskeletal complaints such as back pain were minor. 
We did not find enough evidence to determine the effects of multifactorial interventions compared with exercise as this was only assessed in one small trial. 
