Interventions for improving the ability to rise to stand from sitting following stroke
Question 
We wanted to assess the effectiveness of training, exercises or other interventions aimed at helping people who have had a stroke stand up independently from a sitting position, compared with usual care or no intervention. 
Background 
Rising to stand from sitting is one of the most frequently performed tasks of daily living and is something people need to be able to do to start walking. After a stroke, people may have difficulty rising to stand from sitting. This review looked at the effect of training or exercises on ability to rise to stand, and also aimed to look at the effect of different chair positions that might help people rise to stand. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 13 studies up to June 2013. These studies included 603 participants who had had a stroke. Twelve of the studies investigated the effect of different types of training or exercise: six studies (276 participants) investigated repetitive sit‐to‐stand training, four studies (264 participants) investigated an exercise training programme that included sit‐to‐stand training, one study (12 participants) included a training programme (sitting training) aiming to improve sit‐to‐stand, and one study (42 participants) investigated feedback (information about the symmetry of weight taken through the feet) during sit‐to‐stand. One of the studies investigated the effect of starting posture for sit‐to‐stand: this study (nine participants) compared sit‐to‐stand with a cane and without a cane. This study measured people during three tests of rising to stand with a cane, and three tests of rising to stand without a cane; there was no training period. 
Key results 
Combining the results of these studies provides us with evidence that training or exercises aiming to improve sit‐to‐stand performance have beneficial effects compared with usual care, no treatment or an alternative intervention: people who participated in training or exercises got faster at rising to stand and increased the amount of weight that they took through the leg affected by the stroke. There was also some evidence that these beneficial effects were still present several months after the end of training. Sit‐to‐stand training did not seem to affect the number of falls that people had, although the evidence was of poor quality. There was not enough evidence to say what the ideal amount of training or exercise was, but the results do suggest that training three times a week for two to three weeks may be enough to have a beneficial effect. We did not find any evidence of effects on outcomes other than time to sit‐to‐stand or the weight through the affected leg, or any evidence that the length of the training programme or the time since the participants had their stroke made any difference to outcomes. The studies that we found mainly included people who were able to walk and sit‐to‐stand independently at the start of the study, so these results are only relevant to this group of people. In other words, these results are not relevant to people who are unable to sit‐to‐stand independently and further research is needed to investigate the effect of sit‐to‐stand training for these people. The available studies suggest that effective interventions can either be specific repetitive training of sit‐to‐stand or exercise programmes that include repetitive sit‐to‐stand. The evidence is insufficient to reach conclusions relating to the duration or intensity of training. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found insufficient evidence relating to our primary outcome of ability to sit‐to‐stand independently to reach any generalisable conclusions. However, we found moderate quality evidence, from a relatively low number of small studies, that interventions to improve sit‐to‐stand may have a beneficial effect on the speed of rising to stand and the weight taken through the affected leg. We found insufficient evidence to reach any conclusions about the effect of sit‐to‐stand training on other outcomes. We recommend large clinical trials to confirm the results of this review, and to investigate the effects of different numbers of repetitions and durations of therapy. Future studies should include a measure of functional ability, and should measure long‐term outcomes as well as outcomes straight after therapy. 
