Gemcitabine‐containing chemotherapy for people with advanced bile duct cancer
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of gemcitabine‐based chemotherapy versus placebo or no intervention or gemcitabine‐based chemotherapy versus chemotherapy without gemcitabine in people with advanced bile duct cancer? 
Background Bile duct cancer (starting in the bile duct) is an uncommon malignant tumour. In most people, bile duct cancer is diagnosed at an advanced stage. For them, treatment options include drugs (chemotherapy). Gemcitabine is a drug used to treat certain types of cancerous tumours, including advanced bile duct cancer. Gemcitabine is an active chemotherapy drug, and in combination with cisplatin has been the accepted standard treatment in this disease. 
Study characteristics 
The review authors searched published medical articles to clarify the role of gemcitabine (given by injection into a vein) compared with placebo (an inactive substance or preparation used as a control intervention in an experiment), or with no intervention, or with non‐gemcitabine chemotherapy combinations in the treatment of people with advanced bile duct cancer. The review authors looked for randomised clinical trials, where people were allocated at random to one of two or more treatments groups, in order to perform statistical analysis from which to draw conclusions about the intervention. The evidence is current to June 2017. 
Key results 
The review authors found seven randomised clinical trials, and judged all of them to be at high risk of bias. These trials randomised 600 people with advanced bile duct cancer. The majority of these trials suggested that there were no demonstrable differences in either benefits or harms between gemcitabine‐containing chemotherapy regimens compared with non‐gemcitabine chemotherapy combinations. Only one trial, comparing gemcitabine plus cisplatin versus S‐1 plus cisplatin suggested that gemcitabine‐containing regimens might decrease death. The review authors identified three ongoing randomised clinical trials. 
As far as funding goes, two of the seven trials were sponsored by the pharmaceutical industry, three were not sponsored by the industry, and the remaining two trials provided no information about funding. 
