Continuous passive motion after knee replacement surgery
Background 
Knee replacement surgery is common for the management of arthritis but can cause knee stiffness. Knee stiffness can make it difficult to perform certain activities including standing up from a seated position. Continuous passive motion (CPM) is a way of providing regular movement to the knee using a machine. This Cochrane review presents what we know about the effects of CPM following knee surgery. After searching for all relevant studies in January 2013, we found 24 studies with 1445 participants who had knee replacement surgery primarily for knee arthritis. CPM was started from the first to the fourth day post surgery and applied for 1.5 to 24 hours a day, over 1 to 17 days. The review showed that CPM following knee replacement surgery probably improves the ability to bend the knee slightly and the person's quality of life but may not improve pain or function. We are uncertain about the effects of CPM on need for manipulation under anaesthesia, participants' perceptions of treatment effectiveness or risk of complications. 
Best estimates of what happens to people who have CPM after knee replacement surgery are: 
Range of motion ‐ active knee flexion (i.e. ability to bend the knee) 
People who had CPM were able to bend their knees an average of 2 degrees more (0 to 5 degrees more) than those who did not have CPM at six weeks (2% absolute improvement, 0 to 4% absolute improvement) 
‐ People who had CPM were able to bend their knees an average of 80 degrees.
‐ People who did not have CPM were able to bend their knees an average of 78 degrees.
Pain (higher scores means worse or more severe pain) 
People who had CPM rated their pain an average of 0.4 points lower (0.8 points lower to 0.1 points higher) on a 0 to 10 point scale at six weeks (4% absolute reduction, 8% reduction to 1% increase) 
‐ People who had CPM rated their pain an average of 2.6 points on a 0 to 10 scale.
‐ People who did not have CPM rated their pain an average of 3 points on a 0 to 10 scale. 
Function (higher scores means better function) 
People who had CPM had a loss in function equivalent to an average of 1.6 points on a 0‐ to 100‐point scale at six months (2% absolute reduction, 5% reduction to 2% increase). 
‐ People who had CPM had function equivalent to an average of 56 points on a 0‐ to 100‐point scale. 
‐ People who did not have CPM had function equivalent to an average of 57.6 points on a 0‐ to 100‐points scale. 
Quality of life (higher scores means better quality of life) 
People who had CPM had an increase in quality of life equivalent to an average of 1 point on a 0‐ to 100‐point scale at six months (1% absolute improvement, 3% reduction to 4% increase). 
