Do ventilators that manage the reduction of ventilator support (weaning) reduce the duration of weaning compared to strategies managed by clinicians? 
Background and importance 
Critically ill patients receiving assistance from breathing machines (ventilators) may be restored to normal breathing using clinical methods (collectively termed weaning) that require both expertise and continuous monitoring. Inefficient weaning may result in a prolonged time on a ventilator, putting patients at risk of lung injury, pneumonia and death. At times, delivery of the most effective and efficient care can be difficult due to organizational constraints. Computerized weaning systems may provide a solution to inefficient weaning methods. In this Cochrane review we evaluated if computerized weaning systems were more effective than clinical methods used by clinicians for reducing inappropriate delays in weaning, the overall duration of ventilation, and the length of intensive care unit (ICU) and hospital stays. 
Findings 
We identified 21 studies that provided information on a total of 1676 people including 1628 adults and 48 children. The evidence was current to 30th September 2013. Studies were conducted in people with medical reasons such as pneumonia and other infections for needing admission to ICU, people admitted following trauma, and people admitted after heart or other forms of surgery. As well, various commercially available computerized weaning systems were studied. We found that computerized weaning systems resulted in a reduced weaning duration as well as reduced overall time on the ventilator and stay in an ICU. The average time required for a person to be weaned off the ventilator was reduced by 30%. The overall time on the ventilator was reduced by 10% and the length of stay in ICU by 8%. Not all studies demonstrated these reductions. Studies conducted only in people admitted to ICU following surgery did not demonstrate reductions in weaning, overall time on a ventilator or ICU stay. 
Limitations 
Because of differences in the methods and results of some studies included in this review, further large scale research is warranted. There is also a need for more studies that examine the effect of computerized weaning systems in children. 
