Interventions to increase the reporting of occupational diseases by physicians
Background 
There are many diseases that are caused by work. For example, miners often suffer from lung diseases like pneumoconiosis, whereas eczema is common in hairdressing. Both are commonly referred to as occupational diseases. For workers to receive compensation, therapy or prevention for having developed symptoms because of work, a physician has to officially recognise their condition as an occupational diseases and report it to the appropriate authorities. However, often occupational diseases go unreported. This is because doctors might not know what is expected of them or they feel reporting is too difficult and takes too much time. Because of under‐reporting, occupational disease figures are often not reliable even within a given country. Not knowing the size of the problem, public health officials cannot plan intervention programmes or allocate resources. Many projects have been set up in various countries to improve the reporting of mostly specific categories of occupational diseases. 
Review question 
What are the effects of interventions aimed at increasing the reporting of occupational diseases by physicians? 
Study characteristics 
We included 12 studies. Six studies evaluated the effectiveness of educational materials alone; one study evaluated the effectiveness of educational meetings; and four studies evaluated a combination of the two in increasing the reporting of occupational diseases by physicians. A further study evaluated the effectiveness of a complex educational campaign acting at society level. We searched for studies until January 2015. 
Results 
We found that the use of educational materials did not considerably increase the number of physicians reporting occupational diseases, but a legal obligation reminder message did. Furthermore, we found that the use of educational materials did not considerably increase the rate of reporting occupational diseases. Similarly, we found that the use of both educational materials and meetings did not considerably increase the number of physicians reporting occupational diseases or the rate of reporting. The same holds for the use of educational meetings alone. The use of an educational campaign appeared to increase the number of physicians reporting occupational diseases, although this was based on very low‐quality evidence. 
Further research 
We need high‐quality studies to clarify the effectiveness of these interventions. This review was unable to determine the effectiveness of interventions other than education like the use of financial incentives, which could be an important form of motivation in changing physicians' behaviour. Such small‐scale interventions could be investigated using larger randomised controlled trials, while the evaluation of large‐scale interventions like legislation should use an interrupted time‐series design. 
