Acellular vaccines for preventing whooping cough (pertussis) in children
Review question  We aimed to answer the question of whether acellular pertussis vaccines are as effective as the whole‐cell vaccines at protecting children against whooping cough (pertussis), but with fewer side effects. 
Background  Whooping cough can be a serious respiratory infection in children and is caused by the bacterium Bordetella pertussis (B. pertussis). Vaccines made from killed whole B. pertussis, known as whole‐cell pertussis vaccines, can cause severe neurologic disorders and minor side effects, such as anorexia, drowsiness, fever, irritability, prolonged crying, vomiting and pain/redness/swelling/hardening at the injection site. This led to a fall in immunisation rates, which resulted in an increase in the number of cases of whooping cough. Acellular pertussis vaccines (containing more purified antigens of B. pertussis) were developed in the hope that they would be as effective but safer than the whole‐cell pertussis vaccines. 
Search date  We searched for trials published up to January 2014. 
Study characteristics  We included trials comparing the efficacy and safety of whole‐cell and acellular pertussis vaccines in children up to six years old. 
Key results  This updated review included six trials with 46,283 participants evaluating the efficacy and 52 trials with 136,541 participants assessing the safety of pertussis vaccines. Duration varied from 12 months to 27 months and from 3 days to 12 months for efficacy trials and safety trials, respectively. The efficacy of acellular vaccines with three or more components varied from 84% to 85% in preventing typical whooping cough (characterised by 21 or more consecutive days of severe coughing attacks with laboratory evidence of B. pertussis infection or contact with a household member who has culture‐confirmed pertussis) and from 71% to 78% in preventing mild pertussis disease (characterised by seven or more consecutive days of cough with laboratory evidence of B. pertussis infection). In contrast, the efficacy vaccines with one and two components varied from 59% to 78% in protecting against typical whooping cough and from 41% to 58% against mild pertussis disease. Most systemic and local side effects were significantly less common with acellular vaccines than with whole‐cell vaccines for the first doses and booster dose. We found that acellular pertussis vaccines with three or more components are more effective than low‐efficacy whole‐cell vaccines, but may be less effective than the highest‐efficacy whole‐cell vaccines. Acellular vaccines have fewer side effects than whole‐cell vaccines. 
