What are the benefits and risks of a single injection of ibuprofen (an anti‐inflammation medicine) for relieving short‐term pain after surgery in adults?  
Key messages 
‐ There is not enough evidence to determine whether intravenous (injection into a vein) ibuprofen is an effective treatment for adults with pain after surgery or if it can harm them.  
‐ It would be beneficial if future studies on this topic were well‐designed with a large number of patients to determine if ibuprofen is an effective treatment for the management of pain after surgery. 
‐ More evidence is required to establish if ibuprofen causes serious unwanted effects.
Treating short‐term pain after surgery 
Pain is common in the short term (within 6 hours) after surgery (postoperative pain). 
Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, aspirin‐like drugs) are often delivered along with opioids (such as morphine) to treat this type of pain. However, NSAIDs can have side effects. NSAIDS (such as ibuprofen) may result in bleeding (e.g. at the site of an incision or wound) and may result in injury to the kidneys and gut.  
Patients need more and better treatment options to help manage short‐term pain after surgery. There is a lot of concern about using opioids to treat short‐term pain because of the risk that patients can develop unpleasant side effects or opioid over‐use disorder. It is therefore important to weigh the benefits and risks of NSAIDs when considering using them to reduce pain shortly after surgery. 
What did we want to find out? 
Ibuprofen is a NSAID that can be delivered intravenously. We wanted to know if intravenous ibuprofen (delivered by injection or drip) is a helpful treatment option to manage moderate‐to‐severe pain when patients cannot take medicines by mouth.  
What did we do? 
To make the comparison fair, patients in the studies must all have had the same random chance (like the flip of a coin) to receive the ibuprofen or the other treatment.  
We searched the medical literature (clinical studies) up to June 2021, where intravenous ibuprofen was used to treat pain after surgery in adults (aged over 18) and compared against: 
