Fewer‐than‐four ports versus four ports for laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Background 
About 10% to 15% of the adult Western population have gallstones. Between 1% and 4% become symptomatic each year. Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the main stay treatment for symptomatic gallstones. More than half a million cholecystectomies are performed per year in the United States alone. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of gallbladder through a key‐hole‐sized incision, also known as port) is now the preferred method of cholecystectomy. In conventional or standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy (key hole removal of gallbladder), four ports (two of 10‐mm diameter and two of 5‐mm diameter) are usually used. The use of fewer ports has been reported (fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy). However, the safety of fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy and whether it offers any advantages over four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy is not known. We sought to answer this question by reviewing the medical literature and obtaining information from randomised clinical trials commonly called randomised controlled trials. When conducted well, such studies provide the most accurate information. Two review authors searched the literature to September 2013 and obtained information from the trials, thereby minimising errors. 
Study characteristics 
We identified nine trials that compared fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy with four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In these nine studies, 855 participants were included. Four hundred and twenty seven participants underwent fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy while the remaining 428 participants underwent four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The choice of the treatment that the participants received was determined by a method similar to toss of a coin so that the two treatments were given to participants with similar characteristics. Most of these studies included low anaesthetic risk patients undergoing planned laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
