Total or near‐total thyroidectomy versus subtotal thyroidectomy for multinodular non‐toxic goitre in adults 
Review question 
What are the effects of total or near‐total thyroidectomy compared with subtotal thyroidectomy for multinodular non‐toxic goitre in adults? 
Background 
Multinodular goitre refers to a generalised enlarged thyroid gland with recognisable nodules within it. The thyroid gland consists of two connected lobes. People affected by goitre often present with a non‐symmetrical enlargement of the thyroid gland with a visible swelling in the anterior aspect of the neck. One or more nodules can be recognised. The most frequent cause of multinodular goitre is iodine deficiency. Non‐toxic goitre means that the nodules do not secret thyroid hormones in an uncontrolled way. Total thyroidectomy is an operation that involves the surgical removal of the whole thyroid gland. Near‐total thyroidectomy is an operation that involves the surgical removal of both thyroid lobes except for a small amount of thyroid tissue (on one or both sides less than 1.0 mL). Subtotal thyroidectomy leaves 3 g to 5 g on the less affected side of the thyroid gland. 
After thyroidectomy one of the most important complications is recurrent nerve palsy because this nerve might be traumatised during the surgery. A wide spectrum of complications to the voice, swallowing mechanisms, or both, can occur. A temporary or permanent voice change can result. If the goitre reappears (goitre recurrence) some time after thyroidectomy, another surgical intervention might be necessary. This surgery is more complicated than the initial surgery because of scar tissue making it difficult to identify nerves and other important tissues. There is also the possibility that subtotal thyroidectomy, which is thought to be somewhat safer than total thyroidectomy, may leave an undetected thyroid cancer in place. 
Study characteristics 
We included four randomised controlled trials with a total of 1305 participants. A total of 543 participants were randomised to total or near‐total thyroidectomy and 762 participants to subtotal thyroidectomy. Two trials had a duration of follow‐up between 12 and 39 months and two trials a follow‐up of 5 and 10 years, respectively. Most participants were women and the average age was around 50 years. 
Key results 
In the short‐term period after surgery no deaths were reported for both total thyroidectomy and subtotal thyroidectomy groups, however longer‐term data on all‐cause mortality were not reported. Goitre recurrence was lower for total thyroidectomy compared to subtotal thyroidectomy: the risk for goitre recurrence was 84 per 1000 trial participants for subtotal thyroidectomy and 5 per 1000 participants (with a possible range of 1 to 19) for total thyroidectomy. There was no clear benefit or harm of either surgical technique for re‐operations because of goitre recurrence, side effects like permanent recurrent laryngeal nerve palsy or development of thyroid cancer. No data on health‐related quality of life or socioeconomic effects were reported in the included trials. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality was low to moderate, mainly because of the small number of studies and participants as well as low rates of events which makes distinction between harms and benefits of the two surgical techniques difficult. 
Currentness of evidence 
This evidence is up to date as of June 2015.
