Treating chronic gum inflammation (periodontitis) to prevent heart and blood vessel (cardiovascular) disease 
Review question 
The main question addressed by this review was whether treatments for chronic periodontitis (gum inflammation) can prevent or manage cardiovascular (heart and blood vessel) diseases. 
Background 
Chronic periodontitis causes swollen and painful gums, and loss of the alveolar bone that supports the teeth. 'Chronic' is a label that means the disease has continued for some time without treatment. The term 'chronic periodontitis' is being phased out as there is a new system for categorising different types of gum disease, but we have used this term in our review because the studies we found were based on the old system. 
There may be a link between periodontitis and cardiovascular diseases. The treatment for chronic periodontitis gets rid of bacteria and infection, and controls inflammation, and it is thought that this may help prevent the occurrence or recurrence of diseases of the heart and blood vessels. We wanted to find out whether periodontal therapy could help prevent death, or reduce the likelihood of having cardiovascular 'attacks' like a stroke or heart attack. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for scientific research studies known as 'randomised controlled trials', up to 17 September 2019. In this type of study, participants are assigned in a random way to an experimental or control group. People in the experimental group receive the treatment being tested, and people in the control group usually receive either no treatment, placebo (fake treatment), another type of treatment or routine care. 
We found two studies to include in our review. One study assessed 165 participants who did not have cardiovascular diseases, but had metabolic syndrome (a combination of risk factors for cardiovascular disease, such as obesity, high blood pressure, and high blood sugar). The other study started off with 303 participants who had cardiovascular diseases, but after a year, only 37 participants were assessed and so we thought the results were not be reliable enough to be used. Both studies had problems with their design, and we judged them to be at high risk of bias. 
Key results 
For people who have metabolic syndrome but no cardiovascular diseases, we were unable to determine whether treating chronic periodontitis, by removing the plaque and tartar ('scaling') from the roots of teeth and giving antibiotics, reduced the risk of dying or having cardiovascular attacks when compared with scaling the teeth from above the gumline only. 
