Adjuvant (supplementary treatment after initial treatment) platinum‐based anti‐cancer drugs for early stage cervical cancer 
Background Cervical cancer is the second most common cancer among women. Most women with early stage cervical cancer (stages I to IIA) are cured with surgery or, radiotherapy, or both. Radiotherapy uses high energy x‐rays to damage tumour cells. Chemotherapy (anti‐cancer) drugs use different ways to stop tumour cells dividing so they stop growing or they die. 
Review questionWe undertook this review because it was unclear whether chemotherapy with a drug called cisplatin offered additional benefits or risks to women with early stage cancer with risk factors for recurrence, when given after surgery, after radiotherapy, or both. (Risks for recurrence include tumour spread to the lymph nodes, spread into the lymph and blood vessels, tumour depth of more than 10 mm, microscopic invasion of the connective tissues next to the womb, non‐squamous type of cancer, and when it is unlikely that surgery has removed all the tumour cells). 
Main FindingsIn this review, we analysed data from four small trials of unclear quality. It was not possible to separate data of bulky early stage disease (stage IB2 and IIA lesions greater than 4 cm) from the overall results. We found limited evidence to suggest that the addition of cisplatin chemotherapy to radiotherapy prolongs survival (time to death) and delays progression of the cancer when given after surgery to women with cervical cancer stage IA2 to IIA with risk factors for recurrence. The combined therapy was associated with more severe side effects than radiotherapy alone. 
Quality of the EvidenceThis evidence is limited by the small numbers and moderate quality methodological quality of included studies. 
What are the conclusions?We conclude that it seems appropriate to offer these women chemotherapy plus radiotherapy after surgery, however, more evidence regarding the relative benefits and risks is needed; this will hopefully be provided by the results of three ongoing trials. 
