Specialist breast care nurses for supportive care of women with breast cancer
Review question 
Which interventions carried out by specialist breast care nurses (SBCNs) improve quality of life outcomes for women with a diagnosis of breast cancer? 
Why is this question important? 
Breast cancer is a complex disease and the most common cancer among women globally. Survival has improved markedly over the last 20 years linked to treatment advances, improved screening and a multi‐professional management approach. Breast cancer is not just a physical disease but also impacts on the psychological, emotional and social needs of an individual. 
SBCNs are defined as nurses with 'advanced knowledge' who meet women at diagnosis and provide information and emotional support, patient advocacy, and continuity across the care pathway, seeking to address the multifactorial patient's needs. It is important to understand the effectiveness of these interventions which may include using a focussed intervention or the SBCN undertaking new roles within the multidisciplinary team. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
We searched the research literature for randomised controlled trials comparing a SBCN intervention with usual care or other supportive interventions. The primary outcome was quality of life and indicators assessed included general health‐related quality of life, cancer‐specific quality of life, anxiety and depression, and participant satisfaction. We summarised the evidence from all the studies and considered factors such as how the studies were conducted, and whether the results were consistent. 
What did we find? 
We found 14 studies with a total of 2905 participants, and four ongoing studies. Thirteen studies involved women with primary disease and one study involved women with advanced disease (sometimes referred to as metastatic or secondary disease). We grouped the studies: psychosocial nursing interventions both in primary disease and in advanced disease and SBCN‐led interventions delivering follow‐up care. 
Psychosocial nursing interventions compared with standard care for women with primary breast cancer 
We included nine studies involving 1469 women. The studies tested different types of psychosocial interventions to improve quality of life such as anxiety, depression, distress, emotional and social functioning and physical symptoms; some of these studies measured outcomes up to 18 months using a range of different measurement tools. The evidence suggests that psychosocial interventions carried out by SBCNs for women with a primary diagnosis of breast cancer can improve quality of life and satisfaction with care. 
Psychosocial nursing interventions compared with standard care for women with advanced (metastatic) breast cancer 
There was only one study which showed that there was no difference in quality of life outcomes at three months following a brief psychosocial nursing intervention compared with standard care for 105 women with newly diagnosed advanced breast cancer. 
Specialist breast cancer nurse‐led interventions delivering follow‐up care for women with primary breast cancer 
We included four studies involving 1331 women that reported findings up to five years of follow‐up. All four trials showed that SBCN‐led follow‐up care was equally as effective as standard care for women's quality of life and their satisfaction with care. Overall, the studies captured a specific time point in a person’s care within a role that was multifactorial. No adverse effects or harms were reported. The evidence suggests that, when compared to usual care, SBCN interventions improve health‐related quality of life, satisfaction with care, anxiety and depression. SBCN‐led follow‐up care interventions are equally as effective as usual care for women’s quality of life and satisfaction of care. Overall, the quality of evidence ranged from a very low to moderate levels of certainty and we await the results of ongoing studies to strengthen our confidence in the findings. 
There were no SBCN‐led follow‐up interventions for women with advanced breast cancer.
What does this mean? 
The evidence suggests that psychosocial interventions carried out by SBCNs for women with a primary diagnosis of breast cancer, may improve or are at least as effective as standard care for general health‐related quality of life, cancer‐specific quality of life, anxiety and depression outcomes and satisfaction with care. In future studies, the expertise of the SBCN needs to be better articulated for there to be a meaningful and successful translation to practice, and for SBCNs to have more impact in the area of psychosocial support. Qualification and training of the SBCN needs to be more clearly reported as well as the description of the intervention. 
Study funding sources 
Two studies did not report on funding, eleven studies reported receiving funding from charities or government institutes, and one study reported that no funding had been received. Two studies reported on the role of the funders. 
