Regular treatment with formoterol and inhaled steroids for chronic asthma: serious adverse events 
Review question 
Is it safe to add regular formoterol to inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) for adults or children with asthma? 
Background 
Asthma is a disease of the lungs. Symptoms include wheezing, breathlessness, and chest tightness. Two main features of asthma are underlying inflammation and bronchoconstriction (tightening of the muscles around small tubes in the lungs). The inflammation can be treated with daily steroid inhalers. The bronchoconstriction can be treated with a beta2‐agonist to relax the muscles. This opens up the airways and makes it easier to breathe. Beta2‐agonists can be used two ways: to provide relief from symptoms of chest tightness ('short‐acting beta2‐agonists') and to help prevent symptoms from occurring ('long‐acting beta2‐agonists', or LABAs). 
When asthma is not controlled by daily low‐dose ICS, many asthma guidelines recommend additional daily LABA, such as formoterol. We are confident that LABA improves lung function, symptoms, quality of life, and exacerbations. However, there is long‐standing controversy about how safe these drugs are for people with asthma. This is what we wanted to explore in this review by focusing on rare and serious harms. These are defined as events that are life‐threatening, require admission to hospital or prolongation of existing hospitalisation, or result in persistent or significant disability/incapacity or a birth defect. 
Key results 
We analysed data from 29 studies in 35,751 adults and 10 studies in 4035 children aged up to 17 years. The participants in the studies had a range of asthma severity, with most having been previously treated with regular ICS (over a wide range of doses). There were too few children in the studies to allow us to be certain about the effects in children. 
Thirty deaths were reported in 35,751 adults. Seventeen of these deaths were reported in participants taking formoterol and ICS, and 13 deaths in participants who were taking ICS alone. Three deaths reported in adults taking formoterol and ICS were due to asthma, but there were no deaths due to asthma with ICS alone. No deaths were reported in children up to 17 years age. 
The number of people experiencing serious harms of any cause was similar in adults with and without formoterol. Although there was no difference in the risk of serious harms in adults with asthma taking regular formoterol in combination with ICS compared to ICS alone, we could not confidently exclude a reduced or increased risk of events compared to taking ICS alone. 
Quality of the evidence 
We were moderately certain regarding the data in adults, but less certain about the effects of adding formoterol to ICS in children. Given the low number of deaths that occurred in the studies, we do not yet have enough information to be able to measure accurately the risk of adding formoterol to ICS on number of deaths. 
Almost all trials were sponsored by drug manufacturers.
Other concerns were that the cause of serious adverse events (i.e. whether they were judged by the trialists to be asthma‐related or not) were not independently assessed, and it may have been possible to guess which treatment group the person experiencing the adverse event was from. Although the people in the trial did not know whether they had been given a dummy drug or the active treatment, formoterol has quite a large effect on symptoms. This meant that they might have been able to guess who was taking formoterol. It was not possible for us to tell whether this occurred or not, which is why we primarily look at the all‐cause events, which do not require assessment of cause. 
Conclusions 
We are not able to state confidently that adding formoterol to ICS carries no risk of increasing the number of deaths in comparison with ICS alone. On the other hand, we found no conclusive evidence of an increase in serious harm. Three asthma‐related deaths occurred in a total of 12,777 adults treated with formoterol in combination with ICS. We found no conclusive evidence of risk of non‐fatal serious harms attributed to asthma when formoterol was combined with ICS in adults. 
This Plain language summary is current as of February 2019.
