Can international travel‐related control measures contain the spread of the COVID‐19 pandemic? 
What are international travel‐related control measures? 
International travel control measures are methods to manage international travel to contain the spread of COVID‐19. Measures include: 
‐ closing international borders to stop travellers crossing from one country to another;
‐ restricting travel to and from certain countries, particularly those with high infection levels; 
‐ screening or testing travellers entering or leaving a country if they have symptoms or have been in contact with an infected person; 
‐ quarantining newly‐arrived travellers from another country, that is, requiring travellers to stay at home or in a specific place for a certain time. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out how effective international travel‐related control measures are in containing the COVID‐19 pandemic. 
What we did 
We searched for studies on the effects of these measures on the spread of COVID‐19. Studies had to report how many cases these measures prevented or detected, or whether they changed the course of the pandemic. The studies could include people of any age, anywhere. They could be of any design including those that used ‘real‐life’ data (observational studies) or hypothetical data from computer‐generated simulations (modelling studies). 
This is the first update of our review. This update includes only studies on COVID‐19, published up to 13 November 2020. 
What we found 
We found 62 studies. Most (49 studies) were modelling studies; only 13 used real‐life data (observational studies). Studies took place across the world and at different times during the pandemic. Levels of COVID‐19 within countries varied. 
Most studies compared current travel‐related control measures with no travel‐related controls. However, some modelling studies also compared current measures against possible measures, for example, to see what might happen if controls were more or less relaxed or were combined with other measures. 
