How effective are home improvements and other strategies designed to help older people with low vision move around safely? 
Why this question is importantLow vision that cannot be corrected by standard glasses or any medical treatment is called visual impairment. It is common for people to become visually impaired in later life. Older people with visual impairment tend to avoid physical activity; for example, they might walk fewer steps in a day than people who are not visually impaired. They are also more likely to experience anxiety or depression, or to sustain an injury through falling. 
Changes to a person’s environment or behavior can be made to help older, visually impaired people move safely around ‐ inside and outside ‐ their homes. These include adaptations to the home to enable safe movement around it, or improvement to the person’s balance through exercise. 
To find out if strategies designed to help people move around safely are effective for older people with visual impairment, a team of Cochrane researchers reviewed the evidence from research studies. Specifically, we wanted to know if these strategies: 
• increase physical activity;• reduce risk of falling;• decrease fear of falling;• increase quality of life. 
How we identified and assessed the evidenceFirst, we searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results, and summarized the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. We considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorized the evidence as being of very low‐, low‐, moderate‐ or high‐certainty. 
What we foundWe found six studies in a total of 686 older people with visual impairment who were followed for between two and 12 months. People who took part in the studies were aged 80 years on average, and they lived either at home or in a residential setting. 
Five studies compared changes to the home made by occupational therapists versus home visits from research staff or volunteers. The evidence from these studies suggests that six months after they were made, changes to the home may make little to no difference to physical activity, fear of falling or quality of life (low‐certainty evidence). Changes to the home may make little to no difference to people’s risk of falling six months after they were made, but may slightly reduce risk of falling after one year (low‐certainty evidence). 
Six studies compared exercise versus usual activities or home visits. The evidence from these studies suggests that exercise may make little to no difference to physical activity, risk of falling, fear of falling or quality of life after six months (low‐certainty evidence). 
What this meansCurrent evidence suggests that strategies designed to help people move around safely may not increase physical activity, reduce fear of falling or improve the quality of life of older people with visual impairment. Changes to a home to improve how safe it is to move around in it may slightly reduce risk of falling after one year, but not after six months. 
The certainty of the evidence is low. Further research is likely to change the findings of this review. Future studies that investigate which strategies are acceptable to people and why, and that measure changes in physical activity and falls using robust research methods, will help to reduce uncertainty in this field. 
How‐up‐to date is this review? The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to 4 February 2020. 
