Treatments for male subfertility
Review question 
Cochrane authors reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness of different treatments for couples with male subfertility. 
Background 
Intra‐uterine insemination (IUI), in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) are frequently‐used fertility treatments for couples with low male fertility (subfertility). In IUI, the man's sperm is prepared and placed in the womb (uterus). Thus, the sperm is close to the place where the embryo is made (conception site). IUI can be performed with or without ovarian hyperstimulation (OH). In an OH cycle, women receive drugs to stimulate the ovaries (the organs that produce the eggs (called oocytes)) to increase the number of available oocytes. The main side effects of these drugs are multiple pregnancy (production of two or more embryos (early stage in the development of a baby)) and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS; the ovaries produce too many eggs). In IVF and ICSI, the fertilisation (where the egg and sperm are together and produce an embryo) is outside the body. The oocytes are retrieved from the woman using an ultrasound‐guided needle, piercing the vaginal wall to reach the ovaries. Through this needle, follicular fluid, which contains the oocyte, can be aspirated. It is common to remove between 10 and 15 oocytes. In IVF, the eggs are mixed with the sperm in a culture dish. In ICSI, sperm are injected directly into the oocytes to cause fertilisation. The fertilised oocytes are treated for two to six days in a medium that contains nutrients and are then placed in the uterus. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) investigating male subfertility. We found 10 randomised controlled trials, all comparing different treatments for couples with male subfertility, with a total of 757 couples. The studies evaluated the following treatment options: timed intercourse (TI; where sex occurred at a recommended time in the menstrual cycle) (with or without OH), IUI (with or without OH), IVF and ICSI. The evidence was current to April 2015. We were mainly interested in how many women had live births and OHSS. 
Key results 
We found no evidence of a difference in live birth or pregnancy rates between treatments. We also found no evidence of a difference between any of the groups in rates of adverse effects (multiple pregnancy, miscarriage). Available data on OHSS was too limited for us to draw any conclusions. 
