The effects of educational or regulatory policies targeting medicine prescribers
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess the effects of policies targeting people prescribing medicines. The review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found two studies. 
This review is one of a series of planned or completed reviews that look at the effects of different types of pharmaceutical policies on rational medicine use. 
Key messages 
We do not know what the effects of educational or regulatory policies are on the prescribing of medicine because the evidence is of very low certainty. 
What are educational and regulatory policies? 
Large amounts of health care funds are spent on medicines, and these amounts are increasing. And healthcare providers do not always prescribe the right medicines. Policy makers are therefore looking for ways to control the costs of medicines but still making sure that patients get the medicines they need. Governments, non‐governmental organisations and health insurers sometimes try to do this through targeting the people who prescribe the medicines. 
One way of doing this is to introduce educational policies. This can include laws, rules and regulations that require medicine prescribers to get certain types of information, education or feedback about their prescribing behaviour. 
Another approach is to introduce regulatory policies. This can include laws, rules and regulations regarding who can prescribe medicines, what type of medicines they can prescribe and how much they can prescribe. Usually, prescribers are monitored to make sure they follow these policies. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found two relevant studies. Both of these studies were from the USA and both assessed policies that were introduced in the late 1990s. 
The first study assessed a policy that aimed to get doctors to prescribe antihistamines that were cheaper but considered to be just as good as other antihistamines. In one part of the study, letters were sent to doctors and to their patients telling them about the new policy, and giving them information about the antihistamine. In another part of the study, letters were only sent to doctors. 
The second study assessed a policy that aimed to get doctors to prescribe fewer benzodiazepines to certain types of patients. This policy required doctors in the State of New York to fill in three copies of the same form each time they prescribed benzodiazepines. Pharmacies then sent one of these copies to a state surveillance unit that monitored what doctors were prescribing. The study compared these doctors to doctors in the State of New Jersey, who were not monitored in the same way. 
Because the evidence from both of these studies was of very low certainty, we do not know what effects these policies had on people’s medicine use. We also do not know whether these policies had any effect on people’s health or their use of healthcare services or on costs because the studies did not measure this. 
How up to date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to March 2018.
