Iron supplements taken one, two or three times a week for preventing anaemia, and its consequences in menstruating women 
What is the issue? 
Across the globe, approximately one out of three non‐pregnant women of reproductive age are anaemic; i.e. have fewer red blood cells or less haemoglobin (a red substance that combines with oxygen and carries it around the body) in each red blood cell than normal. Although there are several causes of anaemia, it very often results from sustained iron deficiency. The standard practice to prevent or treat anaemia in women has been daily iron supplementation (sometimes combined with folic acid and other vitamins and minerals) for three months. However, it is frequently associated with side effects such as nausea or constipation. Intermittent supplementation (that is, the consumption of supplements one, two or three times a week on non‐consecutive days) has been proposed as an effective and safer alternative to daily supplementation. 
Why is this important? 
Women with anaemia may have less energy for physical work and become more prone to infections. Most women throughout the world enter pregnancy with anaemia, putting them at greater risk of having low birth‐weight babies and other complications during delivery. 
Some scientists believe that taking iron a few times a week – instead of every day – can help women with anaemia to feel better and improve their haemoglobin without giving them as many side effects. If women have fewer side effects, they may be more likely to take iron supplements more regularly and for longer periods. 
What evidence did we find? 
We reviewed the evidence in February 2018. We included 25 randomised controlled trials (a type of experiment in which participants are randomly assigned to one or more treatment groups) involving 10,996 women. We included studies examining the administration of intermittent iron supplements versus no intervention, a placebo (dummy pill) or the same supplements given on a daily basis. Most studies were implemented in school settings and were mainly funded by international organisations, universities, and ministries of health within the countries. Approximately one‐third of the included studies did not provide a funding source. 
The findings show that women receiving intermittent supplementation with iron alone, or in combination with folic acid or other nutrients, were less likely to be anaemic or iron deficient than those women who received no iron supplements or a placebo. They also had higher concentrations of haemoglobin and ferritin (a protein that carries iron) but reported more side effects. 
In addition, the findings indicate that intermittent supplementation was as effective as daily supplementation in reducing the prevalence of anaemia and increasing haemoglobin concentrations, with fewer side effects. It may have reduced the risk of having iron deficiency also, but it had no effect on raising ferritin concentrations more than the daily dose. 
We found scarce evidence on the effect of intermittent supplementation compared to placebo or daily supplementation on iron deficiency anaemia, all‐cause morbidity, disease outcomes, adherence, economic productivity, and work performance. 
What does this mean? 
Intermittent iron supplementation in menstruating women may be an effective intervention for reducing anaemia and improving haemoglobin concentrations compared to no treatment, placebo or daily supplementation. Intermittent supplementation may be associated with fewer side effects compared to daily supplementation. The findings were not affected by whether the supplements were given once or twice weekly, for less or more than three months, contained less or more than 60 mg of elemental iron per week, or given to populations with different degrees of anaemia at baseline (starting point for comparisons). The evidence base was of overall low quality. 
