Bioidentical hormones for vasomotor menopausal symptoms (hot flushes or night sweats)
Review question  This Cochrane review evaluates the effectiveness and safety of bioidentical hormone treatment (BHT) compared to no treatment or non‐bioidentical hormone treatment (HT) for vasomotor symptoms experienced during the menopausal transition period. 
Background  Various hormone therapies (HT) are available to treat menopausal vasomotor symptoms. Bioidentical hormones are chemically identical to those produced by the human body, and several types are well‐tested and available on prescription. Many women have opted for bioidentical hormone therapy (BHT) on the assumption that it would be safer than other forms of HT. However, as it is unclear whether BHT is better or safer than other forms of HT, we evaluated the evidence. 
Study characteristics  This review includes 23 randomised controlled trials conducted up to July 2015. These studies included a total of 5779 women who were in the menopausal transition period and suffered from hot flushes. Most of the studies (20/23) included only women with moderate to severe hot flushes. None of the studies reported night sweats as a separate outcome. 
Key results  There is low to moderate quality evidence that BHT in various forms and doses is more effective than placebo in decreasing the frequency of moderate to severe hot flushes in women in the menopausal transition period. There was low to moderate quality evidence of higher rates of adverse effects such as headache, vaginal bleeding, breast tenderness and skin reactions in the BHT group. There is some evidence to suggest that higher doses of BHT are associated with more effectiveness but also higher risk of adverse effects. No data are yet available about the safety of BHT with regard to long‐term outcomes such as heart attack, stroke and breast cancer. All women with a uterus who are taking any form of estrogen require co‐administration of a progestogen, as unopposed estrogen is associated with endometrial hyperplasia. 
There is no good evidence of a difference in effectiveness between BHT and CEE, and findings with regard to adverse effects are inconsistent. The quality of the evidence is too low to reach any firm conclusions for this comparison. 
Quality of the evidence  The main limitations in the quality of the evidence were study risk of bias (mainly due to poor reporting of methods), imprecision and lack of data suitable for analysis. 
