Stavudine, lamivudine and nevirapine combination therapy for treatment of HIV infection and AIDS in adults 
People infected with HIV/AIDS require an antiretroviral regimen that works well, has good activity against the virus, has few adverse effects (unintended negative effects of the drug) and that does not interact with other drugs. The regimen of nevirapine, stavudine and lamivudine is widely used as first‐line therapy, and is recommended as such by the World Health Organization for so‐called low‐resource countries (in other words, for poor countries). This review identified two randomised controlled trials that assessed the efficacy of this drug combination. One trial was a small single‐centre Australian trial of 70 participants, whereas the other trial was a large, multicentre trial, conducted in 14 countries, of 1,216 participants. In both trials over 60% of participants were male and none had been on previous antiretroviral treatment. As one trial was very small, we cannot be sure of its results. The main findings therefore come from the much larger trial. This trial compared the combination of nevirapine, stavudine and lamivudine with the combination of efavirenz, stavudine and lamivudine, and found that participants had similar treatment outcomes on either combination. It also found that taking nevirapine once a day with twice daily stavudine and lamivudine worked as well as taking nevirapine twice a day in combination with twice daily stavudine and lamivudine. Nevirapine did appear to cause more adverse effects compared with efavirenz, but additional assessment of this is necessary to be more certain. 
It is important that more trials which follow participants for a longer time be done to provide better evidence for the use of this combination as a first‐line therapy. A trial assessing fixed‐drug (providing drugs in a single tablet) is also required, as this reduces the number of pills people must take each day. These studies should include assessment of adverse effects, as well as tracking whether resistance to the drugs develop over time. 
