Internal versus external registration of contractions during induced or augmented labour 
Induction and augmentation of labour are common procedures within obstetric practice with various indications for mother and child. When contractions are stimulated by intravenous oxytocin, registration of the frequency of contractions is important for determination of the right dosage of medication. Uterine contractions can be monitored through the abdominal wall of the mother by using a small device that is placed on the skin using a belt to hold it in position, where the device measures changes in the shape of the uterus (external tocodynamometry (ET)), or by positioning an intrauterine pressure catheter inside the uterus next to the baby (internal tocodynamometry (IT)). Use of IT is only possible after rupture of the membranes and is an easy, painless procedure done during vaginal examination by the midwife or doctor in charge. During induction or augmentation of labour with intravenous oxytocin, some clinicians choose to monitor contractions with an IT rather than with ET. An intrauterine pressure catheter measures the contractions more accurately and could result in a better dosage of the oxytocin. This could, therefore, reduce the risk of hyperstimulation, for example too frequent contractions, and subsequently reduce the risk for fetal distress. Moreover with the modern central monitoring systems and the accurate registration with the use of IT there is no need for the caregivers to be physical present in the labour room to assess the frequency of contractions. However, besides higher costs of IT, insertion of an intrauterine catheter in the uterus of the mother has rare but potentially hazardous risks for both mother and child, like placental and fetal vessel damage. 
The aim of this review was to compare the effectiveness of IT compared with ET. We included three randomised controlled studies (1945 women). The methodological quality of the studies was considered to be moderate. When comparing internal registration of contractions with external registration of contractions during induced or augmented labour, there were no differences in any of the outcomes for mother or child: adverse neonatal outcomes, instrumental deliveries, caesarean section, use of analgesia or time to delivery. No increased risk for infection was reported when an intrauterine catheter was used in these studies. 
