Factors affecting use of nicotine replacement therapy and e‐cigarettes in pregnancy
What was studied in this review? Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) delivers nicotine without the harmful chemicals found in tobacco smoke. NRT helps some non‐pregnant adults to stop smoking, but it does not seem to work so well in pregnancy. This may be because pregnant women generally do not use NRT as prescribed. Studies show that some pregnant women use e‐cigarettes to help them cut down or quit, although their safety and effectiveness in pregnancy is not known. Little is known about the issues that influence pregnant women's use of NRT/e‐cigarettes. 
What is the aim of this review? To explore factors that affect whether women take up and use NRT or e‐cigarettes to reduce or quit smoking in pregnancy. 
What are the key messages of this review? Three main factors influence whether women take up and use NRT and e‐cigarettes in pregnancy: advice women receive from health professionals on using NRT or e‐cigarette in pregnancy, women's desire to protect their unborn baby from harm, and past personal experience with NRT. Each of these factors can either encourage or discourage women from using these products. 
What are the key findings? We included 21 studies; 15 of these focused on NRT, 3 on e‐cigarettes and 3 on both. Our findings suggest that women's desire to protect their unborn babies from harm is one of the main reasons they use these products. They also consider the advice from their health professionals; when professionals tell women that NRT or e‐cigarettes are safer than smoking and that it is okay to use them in pregnancy, their confidence about using them increases. When women are told that NRT or e‐cigarettes are as dangerous or more dangerous than smoking and that they should not use them when they are pregnant, they feel less confident about using them. Women's past experiences with NRT will also affect how willing they are to use NRT in pregnancy. For example, women who feel that NRT had worked for them (or someone they know) in the past were more confident about using it again. However, women who had negative experiences were more reluctant to use NRT. We conclude that consistent messages that are based on high‐quality research and clearly explain how safe NRT and e‐cigarettes are compared to smoking in pregnancy, could help women use NRT and e‐cigarettes more consistently/as recommended. This may improve their attitudes towards NRT or e‐cigarettes, increase their willingness to use these in their attempt to quit, and encourage them to stay smoke‐free. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? We searched for studies that had been published before 1 February 2019. 
