Acupuncture for fibromyalgia
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of acupuncture on fibromyalgia. 
The review shows that in people with fibromyalgia: 
‐ acupuncture is probably better than non‐acupuncture treatment in reducing pain and stiffness and improving overall well‐being and fatigue; 
‐ acupuncture with electrical stimulation is probably better than needling alone in reducing pain and stiffness, and improving overall well‐being, sleep and fatigue; 
‐ acupuncture without electrical stimulation probably does not reduce pain or improve fatigue, overall well‐being or sleep; and 
‐ acupuncture probably enhances the effect of drugs and exercise on pain.
What is fibromyalgia and what is acupuncture? 
When you have fibromyalgia, you experience pain in many sites of your body, with a range of other symptoms including joint stiffness, sleep disturbance, fatigue and mood disorders, which affect the quality of life. There is no cure and few treatment options for fibromyalgia at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and improve your well‐being and the ability to function. 
Acupuncture is a form of Chinese medicine and uses fine needles to stimulate certain areas of the body, called acupuncture points. Acupuncture is commonly used by people to reduce various forms of pain. It works by reducing inflammation, stimulating the release of your body's own pain killer, that is endorphins, and calming your brain. It is safe with few, short‐lasting side effects. If supported by the overall body of evidence, acupuncture will offer much needed effective symptom relief for fibromyalgia. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with fibromyalgia who use acupuncture: 
Comparing acupuncture with sham interventions 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain)
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their pain to be 13 points lower on a 100‐point scale (absolute improvement) after six sessions of treatment. 
‐ People who had fake acupuncture rated their pain to be 70 on a scale of 0 to 100 at the end of treatment. 
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their pain to be 57. 
Physical function (higher scores mean better function):
‐ People who used needle acupuncture without electrical stimulation rated their physical function to be six points lower (absolute deterioration). 
‐ People who had fake treatment rated their physical function to be 28 on a scale of 0 to 100 at the end of treatment. 
‐ People who had needle acupuncture without electrical stimulation rated their physical function to be 22. 
‐ There are no data on needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation.
Global well‐being rated by participants (higher scores mean better function):
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their well‐being to be 11 points higher (absolute improvement). 
‐ People who had fake treatment rated their well‐being to be 41 on a scale of 0 to 100 at the end of treatment. 
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their well‐being to be 52. 
Sleep (higher scores mean better sleep):
‐ People who used acupuncture rated their sleep to be eight points higher (absolute improvement). 
‐ People who had fake treatment rated their sleep to be 30 on a scale of 0 to 100 at the end of treatment. 
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their sleep to be 38. 
Fatigue (higher scores mean more severe fatigue):
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their fatigue to be 15 points lower (absolute improvement). 
‐ People who had fake treatment rated their fatigue to be 78 on a scale of 0 to 100.
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their fatigue to be 63. 
Stiffness (higher scores mean more severe stiffness):
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their stiffness to be nine points lower (absolute improvement). 
‐ People who had fake treatment rated their stiffness to be 66 on a scale of 0 to 100 at the end of treatment. 
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their stiffness to be 57. 
‐ Data on needle acupuncture without electrical acupuncture were not available.
Adverse effects:
‐ One in six people who had acupuncture reported adverse events.
‐ One in three people who had fake treatments reported adverse events.
‐ Overall, such events were minor and lasted less than one day.
Acupuncture as an adjunct therapy 
Pain (higher scores mean more severe pain):
‐ People who had needle acupuncture in addition to a standard treatment of exercise and medication (antidepressants) rated their pain to be 30 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100 (absolute improvement) after 20 sessions of acupuncture. 
