Scleral buckling and vitrectomy in retinal detachment
What is the aim of this review? To find out the effectiveness and safety of vitrectomy combined with scleral buckle versus vitrectomy alone for eyes with giant retinal tear. 
Key messages Currently no conclusive evidence is available from randomized controlled trials comparing the effectiveness and safety of using a scleral buckle in a combined procedure with vitrectomy for giant retinal tear against using vitrectomy alone. 
What was studied in this review? The retina is a thin inner layer that lines the back of the eye and helps to send visual stimuli to the brain. The retina partially lines the vitreous body, a jelly‐like fluid inside the eye. A giant retinal tear occurs when the vitreous body detaches from the retina (known as a retinal detachment) and creates a hole (retinal tear) of a certain size. For people who suffer retinal detachment associated with giant retinal tear, vitrectomy is usually indicated right away to prevent permanent vision loss. Vitrectomy is a type of eye surgery in which a doctor removes the vitreous and replace it with another solution. 
For people with retinal detachment who are subjected to vitrectomy, this procedure can be combined with scleral buckling. Scleral buckling is a procedure to repair a retinal detachment in which a doctor attaches a piece of silicone or a sponge onto the white of the eye (scleral). Using scleral buckling may assist attachment of the retina. 
What are the main results of the review? Cochrane researchers searched for all relevant studies to answer this question and found only two conference abstracts, neither of which was published in full. Cochrane researchers also reached out to the investigators of these two studies but did not receive additional information. 
People affected by giant retinal tears and retinal surgeons treating them need evidence to show whether it is useful to combine scleral buckle with vitrectomy. They need more information about the surgical procedure associated with a higher rate of retinal reattachment and reduced surgical risk. Future studies need to obtain information on outcomes for people affected by this condition, such as eye and systemic medical history, eye and retinal tear findings, vision gained from surgery, and adverse events associated with surgery. 
