Anti‐tuberculous therapy for maintaining remission in Crohn's disease
Tuberculous bacteria have been suggested as a possible cause of Crohn's disease due to a similarity between Crohn's and tuberculous lesions when viewed under a microscope. Four studies examined the use of anti‐tuberculous therapy to reduce the chance of the disease recurring in patients with non‐active Crohn's disease. The results of these studies suggest that this treatment might be effective for this purpose. However, this finding has not been definitively proven, and anti‐tuberculous therapy should not be used to treat Crohn's disease without further study. 
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder that can occur in any part of the gastrointestinal tract and can affect people of any age. Common symptoms include weight loss, diarrhoea and abdominal pain. When people with Crohn's disease experience these symptoms the disease is active. When patients no longer experience disease symptoms their disease is said to be in remission. 
Review question 
Prevention of relapse (recurrence of symptoms) is an important objective in the management of Crohn's disease. There is no current treatment available that completely prevents relapse and is without significant side‐effects. Tuberculous bacteria have been suggested as a possible cause of Crohn's disease due to a similarity between Crohn's and tuberculous lesions when viewed under a microscope. We wanted to see if anti‐tuberculous therapy is better than placebo for maintaining remission in patients with Crohn's disease 
What is anti‐tuberculous therapy? 
Anti‐tuberculous therapy generally consists of combinations of antibiotic and antibacterial type drugs. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers studied whether anti‐tuberculous therapy maintains remission in patients with Crohn's disease and whether it causes any harms (side effects). The investigators searched the medical literature extensively up to 22 June 2015. 
What did the researchers find? 
The researchers identified four studies that included a total of 206 participants. All of the studies were small in size and were judged to be of unclear quality. The studies compared anti‐tuberculous therapy (i.e. clofazimine or combination therapy with clofazimine, rifampin, ethambutol, and dapsone or combination therapy with clarithromycin, rifabutin and clofazimine) to placebo (inactive pills or tablets). Anti‐tuberculous therapy may provide a benefit over placebo for the prevention of relapse in participants with Crohn's disease in remission. However, this result is very uncertain due to unclear study quality and the small numbers of patients assessed. Participants receiving anti‐tuberculous drugs had more side effects than placebo participants. Common side effects included reversible pink skin discolouration and rash. No serious side effects were reported in the four studies. Further studies are needed to provide better quality evidence for the use of anti‐tuberculous therapy for maintaining remission in people with inactive Crohn's disease. 
