Sub‐Tenon's anaesthesia versus topical anaesthesia for pain control and better operating conditions for cataract surgery 
Cataract is the most common cause of low vision and blindness; it is usually due to the normal ageing process but may be found in younger people. Cataract occurs as loss of the natural clearness of the lens of the eye. A cataract is treated by surgery to remove the lens and replace it with an artificial one. Surgery ideally should be performed within six months of diagnosis to avoid further loss of vision. Debate continues as to which local anaesthetic technique provides better pain relief for the patient and facilitates the task of the surgeon at the same time. 
Topical anaesthesia is provided by placing local anaesthetic drops or gel of local anaesthetics on the surface of the eye. Sub‐Tenon's anaesthesia is provided by first numbing the surface of the eye with local anaesthetic drops, holding the tissue lining (conjunctiva and Tenon’s capsule) in front of the eye with blunt tweezers and making a small nick in it using curved blunt‐ended scissors. A small blunt sub‐Tenon's cannula is passed through this hole to inject local anaesthetic into sub‐Tenon's space. Advantages of topical anaesthesia over sub‐Tenon's block include reduced time in administration, less pain during administration and shorter duration of action, allowing the person to rapidly regain sight after surgery. 
We included eight randomized controlled trials in the review, and we based our analysis on seven of these: two cross‐over trials that included 125 participants, and five parallel trials involving 492 participants. The mean age of participants varied from 71.5 years to 83.5 years. Oral sedation was used for two trials only. No trial used oral analgesics before the operation, and no trials mentioned their source of funding. This review showed that sub‐Tenon’s anaesthesia provided slightly better pain relief than topical anaesthesia during cataract surgery. The difference was equal to 1.1 on a scale from 0 to 10. Pain on the day after surgery was slightly lower for participants who received topical anaesthesia, and the difference was equivalent to 0.2 on a scale from 0 to 10. Both surgeons and participants preferred sub‐Tenon’s anaesthesia. However, all trials were performed at a time when surgeons were only starting to use topical anaesthesia. There was not enough evidence from included trials to say whether one anaesthetic technique would be associated with a lower or higher incidence of important surgical complications during surgery (posterior capsular tear, iris prolapse) that may lead to postoperative complications and eventually to poorer vision. Topical anaesthesia and sub‐Tenon’s anaesthesia therefore are accepted and safe methods of providing anaesthesia for cataract surgery. 
