Surgery for limited‐stage small‐cell lung cancer
Background
There are different types of lung cancer. One type is called small‐cell lung cancer. Small‐cell lung cancer is considered limited‐stage if it is still within the chest or extensive‐stage if it has spread outside the chest. Currently, chemotherapy and radiation therapy is recommended for treatment of limited‐stage small‐cell lung cancer if it is localised and has not spread outside one side of the chest. 
Review question
We wanted to know if people with small‐cell lung cancer that has not spread outside the chest live longer with an operation to remove the tumour, whether accompanied by chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or both or neither, compared to chemotherapy, with or without radiotherapy. 
Study characteristics
We searched for clinical trials up to 11 January 2017, and we included three studies with 330 people who had been diagnosed with small‐cell lung cancer which had not spread outside the chest. Some were given surgery only, and some were not. Also, some were given chemotherapy and radiotherapy along with their surgery, and some were given chemotherapy and radiotherapy without surgery. We looked for a difference in how long people lived, and if their treatment caused any side effects. 
Key findings
The data were all of very low quality. All three studies were quite different so could not be combined. One study reported that people lived longer without surgery (but with radiotherapy) than with surgery. One study reported 4% of people surviving at two years with surgery compared to 10% of people surviving with radiotherapy. One study reported 52% of people surviving with surgery compared to 18% of people surviving with radiotherapy. Our evidence does not support the use of surgery for people with small‐cell lung cancer, but the quality of data is low and from more than 20 years ago. Better trials are needed to properly compare surgery with no surgery in people with small‐cell lung cancer. 
Quality of the evidence
We rated the quality of the evidence using one of the following grades: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low quality evidence means we are uncertain about the results. High‐quality evidence means we are very certain about the results. For this Cochrane Review, we found that the evidence was of very low quality for all the outcomes studies. We could not combine the trials as they were all very different, and the trials were very old. Some trials did not give enough information about their quality. 
