Psychosocial interventions for pregnant women in outpatient illicit drug treatment programmes compared to other interventions 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of psychosocial interventions, such as contingency management (CM) and motivational interviewing based (MIB) techniques vs. usual care for pregnant women in outpatient illicit drug treatment programmes. 
Background 
Women who use illicit drugs while pregnant are more likely to give birth early and have low birthweight infants. A pregnant woman can reduce the risk of these complications by undergoing drug treatment during pregnancy. 
Psychosocial interventions, such as CM and MIB techniques, may help them to overcome the many barriers to staying in a drug treatment programme and reduce illicit drug use. CM uses positive supportive reinforcement with incentives, such as monetary vouchers, awarded based on pre‐determined endpoints such as treatment attendance or drug abstinence. MIB is a form of patient‐centred counselling used to resolve uncertainty in their drug use, treatment, or cessation. 
Study characteristics 
Researchers from the Cochrane Collaboration examined the evidence published up to January 2015 and included 14 studies with 1298 pregnant women in this Cochrane review. The 1298 pregnant women received either CM or MIB techniques in adjunct to other comprehensive care options; women in the control group received usual care that included pharmacological treatment such as methadone maintenance, counselling, prenatal care, STD counselling and testing, transportation, and/or childcare. Nine studies used CM techniques vs. usual care, while five studies involved MIB techniques vs. usual care. 
All of the studies were completed in the United States of America and most participants were African American. Most studies used the Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders (DSM‐IV‐R) criteria to determine drug dependence. 
Key results 
There were no differences in retention or abstinence between CM or MIB techniques and usual care. There were also no differences in birth outcomes between the groups. 
Overall, there is low to moderate quality of evidence from the included studies. Allocation methods were often described in very limited manner. Furthermore, many studies lacked attrition information which could have impacted results. While further information related to these methods could be helpful, future randomized trials using psychosocial interventions are unlikely to show a benefit. In addition, there was significant heterogeneity in terms of methods for measuring outcomes. 
