Can the glucose‐lowering drugs insulin secretagogues prevent or delay type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in persons at increased risk of this disease? 
Review question 
Can the group of glucose‐lowering drugs called insulin secretagogues prevent or delay the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in people at risk for the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
Insulin secretagogues are widely used to treat people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. The insulin secretagogues can be divided into two main classes of glucose‐lowering drugs, namely sulphonylureas (e.g. glibenclamide/glyburide, glipizide and gliclazide) and meglitinide analogues (nateglinide and repaglinide). Insulin secretagogues lower blood glucose by stimulating the secretion of insulin in the body, thereby increasing insulin levels in the blood. People with moderately elevated glucose levels are often said to be at an increased risk for developing type 2 diabetes (often called 'prediabetes'). Therefore, people with moderately elevated glucose levels are frequently recommended to increase exercise and lower calorie intake (behaviour changing or 'lifestyle' interventions) in order to prevent the development of type 2 diabetes. It is currently not known whether insulin secretagogues should be prescribed for people with raised blood glucose levels who do not meet the diagnostic criteria for having type 2 diabetes mellitus. We wanted to find out whether insulin secretagogues could prevent or delay the development of type 2 diabetes mellitus in people with moderately elevated glucose levels. Furthermore, we wanted to analyse the effects of insulin secretagogues on patient‐important outcomes such as complications of diabetes (for example kidney and eye disease, heart attacks, strokes), death from any cause, health‐related quality of life and side effects of the medications. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature and registers of ongoing trials for randomised controlled trials of at least 12 weeks' duration comparing insulin secretagogues with another glucose‐lowering drug, placebo or no intervention. Randomised controlled trials are clinical studies in which people are randomly allocated to one of two or more groups so that the effects of different interventions can be compared directly. Participants included in the studies had to have glucose levels higher than considered normal, but below the glucose levels that are used to diagnose type 2 diabetes mellitus. We combined the findings of several studies to answer our review question. We found six randomised controlled trials. A total of 10,018 participants were included. The duration of the interventions varied from six months to five years. 
This evidence is up to date as of April 2016.
Key results 
Few participants died following treatment with sulphonylureas. Sulphonylureas (most of the evidence was available for glimepiride) did not reduce the risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus compared with placebo. No study with sulphonylureas reported on serious side effects, non‐fatal heart attacks, non‐fatal stroke, heart failure, health‐related quality of life or socioeconomic effects. 
Only one study reported data on a meglitinide analogue (nateglinide). This large study contributed 95% of all participants of our review. We could not establish firm evidence on the outcomes death from any cause, risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus or serious side effects. This study did not report on health‐related quality of life or socioeconomic effects. 
