Electrical stimulation through implanted electrodes in contact with the brain to treat drug‐resistant epilepsy 
Background 
Despite many antiepileptic drugs being available, about 30% of epilepsy patients are not seizure‐free. Electrical stimulation through implanted electrodes in contact with the brain (i.e. intracranial electrical stimulation, referring to 'deep brain stimulation' and 'cortical brain stimulation') has been proposed as an alternative treatment for these patients. This review aimed to evaluate its efficacy, safety and tolerability. 
Results 
Various brain structures have been targeted with scheduled (that is seizure‐independent) stimulation, including the anterior thalamic nucleus (one trial, 109 participants), the centromedian thalamic nucleus (two trials, 20 participants), the cerebellar cortex (three trials, 22 participants), the hippocampus (four trials, 21 participants) and the nucleus accumbens (one trial; 4 participants). In addition, one trial (191 participants) studied responsive stimulation (that is only upon seizure detection) of the seizure onset zone. There is evidence for a moderate (15% to 30%) seizure frequency reduction after short‐term (one to three months) anterior thalamic nucleus stimulation in (multi)focal epilepsy, hippocampal stimulation in temporal lobe epilepsy and responsive seizure onset zone stimulation in (multi)focal epilepsy. However, there is no evidence for significant impact on seizure freedom, the proportion of patients with a greater than 50% seizure frequency reduction, or quality of life. 
Adverse effects of anterior thalamic stimulation include self‐reported depression and subjective memory impairment, and possibly anxiety and confusional state. Responsive seizure onset zone stimulation seemed to be well‐tolerated with few side effects. 
Evidence on anterior thalamic and responsive ictal onset zone stimulation is of moderate to high quality, whereas the evidence on hippocampal stimulation is of low to moderate quality. There is insufficient evidence to make firm conclusive statements on the efficacy or side effects of hippocampal, centromedian thalamic, cerebellar cortical and nucleus accumbens stimulation. Intracranial implantation of the electrodes was relatively safe without permanent symptomatic sequelae in the patients included in the trials. 
Conclusions 
More, larger and well‐designed trials on intracranial electrical stimulation treatments are needed to validate and optimize its efficacy and safety and to compare this treatment to currently available treatments (for example, antiepileptic drugs or vagus nerve stimulation). 
The evidence is current to 5 November 2016.
