Use of fluids and pharmacological agents (medicinal drugs) to prevent the formation of adhesions (scar tissue) after surgery of the female pelvis 
Review question: This Cochrane Review evaluated the use of fluid and pharmacological agents that aim to prevent adhesion formation after gynaecological surgery (we defined gels as fluid agents). 
Background: Adhesions are a type of scar tissue, which can cause two normally separate surfaces within the body to stick together. Adhesions often form within the pelvis following surgery, infection, or due to endometriosis. Adhesions caused by gynaecological surgery can cause pain and reduced fertility. Women with adhesions often require further surgery. Strategies to prevent adhesion formation include the use of fluid and gel agents, which aim to prevent healing tissues from touching one another, or drugs, aimed to change an aspect of the healing process, to make adhesions less likely to form. 
Study characteristics: We included 32 randomised controlled trials (3492 women). We pooled the results of 23 trials (2796 women). We were unable to pool the results from the remaining nine trials, because investigators either measured adhesions in a way that would not allow us to pool the findings with other data, or did not report important statistical information. We searched all evidence up to August 2019. 
Key results: 
Fluids and gels appear to be effective in reducing adhesions, but more information is needed to determine whether they affect pelvic pain or live birth rates. Large, high‐quality studies should be conducted in which investigators use the standardised way of measuring adhesions, developed by the American Fertility Society (the modified AFS score). 
For the outcome of pain: one study reported uncertain results of the effect of a fluid agent (4% icodextrin, a glucose polymer) on pelvic pain. No studies reported pelvic pain outcomes with any other interventions. 
For the outcome of fertility: the pooled results of two studies of fluid agents (dextran, another glucose polymer) found uncertain effects on live birth rates. The data suggest that in women with a 13% chance of giving birth with no treatment, 4% to 19% would give birth if treated with fluid agents. The pooled results of two studies of steroids found uncertain effects on live birth rates. The data suggest that in women with a 13% chance of giving birth with no treatment, 4% to 19% would give birth if treated with steroids. No studies reported live birth rate with any other interventions. 
We are uncertain whether fluid agents, gel agents, or steroids affect clinical pregnancy rates compared with no treatment. No studies comparing the effect of fluid agents with gel agents reported clinical pregnancy rates. 
For the outcome of adhesions at SLL: four studies found that fluid agents reduced the incidence of adhesions at second‐look laparoscopy (SLL) compared with no treatment (high‐quality evidence). This suggests that in women with an 84% chance of having adhesions at SLL with no treatment, the use of fluid agents would result in 54% to 75% having adhesions. Five studies found that gel agents reduced the incidence of adhesions at SLL compared with no treatment (high‐quality evidence). This suggests that in women with an 84% chance of having adhesions at SLL with no treatment, using gel agents would result in 39% to 75% having adhesions. Three studies found that gel agents probably reduced the incidence of adhesions at SLL compared with fluid agents (moderate‐quality evidence). This suggests that in women with a 46% chance of having adhesions at SLL with a fluid agent, using gel agents would result in 21% to 41% having adhesions. 
Eight studies examined the effect of gel agents or fluid agents on mean adhesion score. We are uncertain if they have an effect when compared with no treatment, or with each other. 
No studies reported the effect of steroids on adhesion incidence or mean adhesion scores at SLL. 
For the outcome of adverse events: no studies reported any adverse events caused by the intervention being investigated. 
Quality of the evidence: The quality of the evidence ranged from very‐low to high. The main reasons for downgrading evidence were imprecision (small sample sizes and wide confidence intervals that crossed the line of no effect), and poor reporting of methods. 
