Effectiveness of equivalent schedules of full‐dose inactivated poliovirus vaccine injected into muscle compared to a smaller dose injected into skin 
Background 
Polio is a disabling disease that is only preventable via vaccination. There are two types of polio vaccines: live poliovirus vaccine delivered orally (by mouth – so‐called OPV) and inactivated (killed) poliovirus vaccine (IPV). OPV is the mainstay of polio eradication but carries a risk of causing vaccine‐associated polio. This is not the case for IPV, which also has fewer side effects and can be given to people with low immunity, making it vital for the complete elimination of poliovirus. Killed vaccines can be given via injection either into the muscles (intramuscular) or into the skin (intradermal). 
Review question 
How effective is a small dose of IPV injected into the skin compared to a full dose of IPV injected into muscle in similar schedules? 
Study characteristics 
The database searches, up‐to‐date to February 2019, found 13 randomised controlled trials (a type of experiment in which participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups). Three studies comprised 890 adult participants; a further 10 studies comprised 6402 infants and children. 
Nine studies were conducted in middle‐income countries; three studies in high‐income countries; and one study in a low‐income country. The studies had a duration of 2 to 19 months. Three studies were supported financially by drug companies, and three studies received the vaccines from the pharmaceutical company. There is overall limited confidence in the quality of the included studies since, for example, in most trials the recipient or assessor (or both) were aware of the vaccine being given. 
Key results 
The review included 13 studies with a total of 7292 participants (6402 children and 890 adults). Where possible, we combined the results of similar studies in a meta‐analysis (a statistical method of combining the results of multiple single studies to calculate an overall effect). 
There are three types of wild poliovirus: types 1, 2, and 3. We found that the number of antibody responses to the vaccine (measured using something called seroconversion rates) in children was higher in the group that received the vaccine by intramuscular injection compared to the group that had a similar number of injections given intradermally, after one single dose (6 studies, 2571 children) and two doses (3 studies, 981 children) for all three types of poliovirus, and after three doses for type 2 poliovirus (3 studies, 973 children). 
The vaccines produce antibodies against all three types of poliovirus. The quantity of antibodies produced by the vaccines (measured as geometric median titres) was higher in children receiving a full dose of IPV via intramuscular route for all three types of poliovirus (7 studies, 4887 children). 
