What is the diagnostic accuracy of optical coherence tomography (OCT), an imaging test, for the detection of skin cancer in adults? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are several different types of skin cancer. Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms, and it is important that it is recognised early so that it can be removed. If it is not recognised (also known as a false‐negative test result), treatment can be delayed, and this risks the melanoma spreading to other organs in the body, which may lead to eventual death. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) are usually localised (i.e. limited to a certain part of the body) skin cancers, although cSCC can spread to other parts of the body and BCC can cause disfigurement if not recognised early. Diagnosing a skin cancer when it is not actually present (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery and other investigations and can cause stress and anxiety to the patient. Making the correct diagnosis is important, and mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate optical coherence tomography (OCT) is for diagnosing skin cancer. Researchers in Cochrane included five studies to answer this question. Two studies were concerned with the diagnosis of melanoma and three with the diagnosis of BCC. 
What was studied in the review? 
A number of tools are available to skin cancer specialists which allow a more detailed examination of the skin compared to examination by the naked eye alone. Currently, a dermoscope is used by most skin cancer specialists, which magnifies the skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) using a bright light source. OCT magnifies the surface of a skin lesion to the level of that seen using a microscope using near‐infrared light. It is quick to perform but is more expensive compared to dermoscopy and requires specialist training. Review authors examined how useful OCT is to help diagnose skin cancers when used after visual inspection or visual inspection plus dermoscopy. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included five studies: two studies with 97 participants with 133 skin lesions suspected of being melanoma, and three studies with 305 participants with 396 lesions suspected of being BCC of which one (50 lesions) also analysed cSCCs (nine lesions). 
The studies investigating the accuracy of OCT for diagnosing melanoma were small and too different from each other to allow a reliable estimate of the accuracy of OCT for melanoma to be made. Similarly, only one small, low‐quality study investigated the accuracy of OCT for diagnosing cSCC. 
For identifying BCC, two studies showed the effects of skin specialists using OCT after visual inspection alone, or visual inspection with dermoscopic examination. These two studies indicated that in theory, if OCT were to be used in a group of 1000 people with skin lesions that were particularly difficult to diagnose, of whom 600 (60%) actually had BCC, then: 
