Psychological treatments for coronary heart disease
We reviewed the evidence to assess the effects of adding psychological treatments (talking therapies) to usual care for people with coronary heart disease (CHD; narrowing of the arteries supplying the heart) compared with people receiving usual care. We extracted results on the rates of death (any cause or cardiac‐related); heart attacks; the need for revascularisation surgery (operation to restore the blood flow around the heart); and levels of depression, anxiety, and stress. 
Background 
Heart attacks and cardiac (heart) surgery may be frightening and traumatic, and may lead some people to experience psychological problems. Some psychological characteristics are linked to the development and progression of cardiac complaints. Psychological treatments for depression, anxiety or stress are sometimes offered, either alone or as part of a rehabilitation programme. We tested whether there are any benefits from providing psychological therapies in addition to usual care for people with CHD. We only selected studies that followed people for at least six months. 
Searches 
This is the third update of this review (previous versions 2004 and 2011). The evidence reported is current to April 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We included 35 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 10,703 participants. Most participants were men (77%), and had recently had a heart attack or undergone a surgical revascularisation procedure. Studies followed up participants for between six months and 10.7 years, with 12 months being the most common period. At baseline (start of the trial), 10 trials only recruited participants with CHD and an established psychological condition (mostly depression), 11 trials recruited people with varying levels of psychopathology, three studies excluded people with psychological conditions, and 11 studies did not report psychological status. 
Study funding 
Thirteen studies did not report funding sources. Seven studies were funded by government grants, six through charitable foundations, and six through a mix of government and charitable funding. Two studies reported receiving some funding from private companies in addition to funds secured from government and charitable sources, and one study was university funded. 
