Vagus nerve stimulation for focal seizures
What did we want to find out?The aim of this review was to find the current evidence on how effective vagus nerve stimulation is in reducing the frequency of epileptic seizures, and any side effects associated with the treatment. 
What is epilepsy and how is it treated?Epilepsy is a disorder in which unexpected electrical discharges from the brain cause seizures. Most seizures can be controlled by a single antiepileptic drug, but sometimes, seizures do not respond to drugs. Some people need more than one antiepileptic drug to control their seizures, especially if they originate from one area of the brain (focal epilepsy), instead of involving the whole brain. 
The vagus nerve runs down the side of the neck, from the brain to the large intestines, and controls body systems, like the heart and digestion. The vagus nerve stimulator (VNS) is a device that is used as an add‐on treatment for epilepsy, if it does not respond well to drugs, and only affects one part of the brain. The device is connected to the vagus nerve, and sends mild electrical impulses to it. This is particularly important for treating people whose epilepsy did not respond well to drugs, who are not eligible for epilepsy surgery, or for whom surgery was not successful in reducing the frequency of their seizures. 
What did we do?We did not identify any new studies for this update. We included five multicentre, randomised controlled trials (RCTs) from the last update, which recruited a total of 439 participants, and compared different types of VNS therapy. Three compared high‐level stimulation to low‐level stimulation in participants from 12 to 60 years old. One trial examined high frequency stimulation versus low frequency stimulation in children. One trial examined three different stimulation frequencies. 
What did we find?Since we did not identify any new studies, the conclusions remain unchanged. 
VNS seems to be an effective treatment for people with intractable focal epilepsy. High‐level stimulation seems to reduce the number of seizures people had compared to low‐level stimulation. 
Common side effects were voice alteration and hoarseness, pain, shortness of breath, cough, feeling sickly, tingling sensation, headache, or infection at the site of the operation. Shortness of breath, voice alteration and hoarseness were more common in people receiving high‐level stimulation compared to people receiving low‐level stimulation. 
