Low bacterial diet versus control diet to prevent infection in cancer patients treated with chemotherapy causing episodes of neutropenia 
Neutropenia is a potentially serious side effect of chemotherapy and a major risk factor for infection, which can be life‐threatening. It has been argued that a low bacterial diet (i.e. food and drinks with low levels of bacteria) can prevent the occurrence of infection and (infection‐related) death in cancer patients receiving chemotherapy that causes episodes of neutropenia. 
Review authors identified three randomised studies comparing different diets in 192 children and adults with different types of cancer. Other interventions, such as antimicrobial prophylaxis (i.e. prevention of infection via antimicrobial therapy such as antibiotics) and hygiene practices, and definitions of study outcomes also differed between studies, and very limited information on anticancer treatment was given. All studies had methodological problems. Unfortunately, combining the results of included studies was not possible, but at the moment, no evidence from individual studies suggests that a low bacterial diet prevents infection. Data on survival, time from onset of neutropenia to start of fever, duration of empirical (i.e. start of treatment before determination of a definitive diagnosis) antibiotics and antimycotics (i.e. agents that target fungal infection), diet acceptability and quality of life all were evaluated by only one study; for all outcomes, no statistically significant differences between treatment groups were observed. None of the studies evaluated infection‐related mortality. It should be noted that 'no evidence of effect', as identified in this review, is not the same as 'evidence of no effect'. No differences between diets were identified, possibly because few patients were included in these studies. On the basis of currently available evidence, the review authors were not able to give recommendations for clinical practice. Additional high‐quality research is needed. 
