Inotropic and vasodilator strategies in people with cardiogenic shock or low cardiac output 
Review question 
We reviewed existing evidence on the treatment with different agents, which act by either increasing the ability of the heart to contract (inotropic drugs) or by expansion of the blood vessels (vasodilating drugs), regarding their effects on mortality in patients with cardiogenic shock (CS; shock due to critical reduction of cardiac pumping capacity) or low cardiac output syndrome (LCOS; reduced heart performance). 
Background 
CS and LCOS represent life‐threatening entities. Drug therapy of CS and LCOS is based on substances that stimulate contraction of the heart. The potent agents are frequently used for rescue in acute cardiac care. However, evidence for the treatment of patients suffering from unstable blood circulation is limited especially with regard to mortality. 
Study characteristics 
We included 19 studies with 2385 participants with CS or LCOS complicating myocardial infarction, heart failure or cardiac surgery. The follow‐up periods of the studies varied between the length of the recovery period and a period of up to 12 months. Eight studies were funded by the manufacturer of the investigated drug. In one study, the relationship to the pharmaceutical industry was not determined. 
Key results 
We compared different strategies employing inotropic or vasodilating drugs (i.e. levosimendan, enoximone, piroximone, epinephrine, norepinephrine, dopexamine, milrinone, dopamine and dobutamine). Low‐quality evidence reflects uncertainty regarding short‐ and long‐term mortality in the comparison of levosimendan with dobutamine. Very low‐quality evidence reflects uncertainty regarding long‐term mortality in the comparison of levosimendan with placebo; no data were available for the short‐term follow‐up. Very low‐quality evidence reflects uncertainty regarding short‐term mortality in the comparison of levosimendan with enoximone, epinephrine with norepinephrine‐dobutamine, dopexamine with dopamine, enoximone with dobutamine, and dopamine‐milrinone with dopamine‐dobutamine; no data were available for the long‐term follow‐up. Very low‐quality evidence reflects uncertainty for all‐cause mortality in the short and long term when comparing epinephrine with norepinephrine. No data on all‐cause mortality were available in the comparison of milrinone with dobutamine, enoximone with piroximone and enoximone with epinephrine‐nitroglycerine. 
Quality of evidence 
This evidence is current to October 2019. We have very little confidence in the results of the studies that we analysed (low‐ or very low‐quality evidence) due to relevant study limitations (risk of bias), imprecision or indirectness. 
