Comparing electronic monitoring of the baby's heartbeat on a woman's admission in labour using cardiotocography (CTG) with intermittent monitoring 
What is the issue? 
When healthy women with low‐risk pregnancies are admitted to labour wards, does a cardiotocograph (CTG) or listening to the fetal heart rate (FHR) for one minute following a contraction lead to better outcomes for mothers and their babies? 
Why is this important? 
Monitoring of the FHR is one of the most common methods for checking a baby's wellbeing. The two most common ways of monitoring the FHR are by listening to the heart beat using a fetal stethoscope, Pinard (special trumpet shaped device), hand‐held Doppler ultrasound device (known as intermittent auscultation) or by an electronic fetal monitoring (EFM) machine that produces a printout of the baby’s heart rate and the mother’s contractions, called a CTG. 
The admission CTG is a commonly used test consisting of a short, usually 20 minute, recording of the FHR and uterine activity that is performed when the woman is admitted to the labour ward with signs of labour. The admission CTG was introduced to try and identify those babies who were at greatest risk of becoming compromised with a lack of oxygen during labour. These babies could be monitored more intensively by continuous EFM, or they may benefit from an immediate intervention such as being delivered by caesarean section. 
What evidence did we find? 
We compared the admission CTG with intermittent auscultation of the FHR performed on the woman's admission to the labour ward. We searched for evidence to 30 November 2016 but found no new studies for this updated review (previously published in 2012). This review includes four studies and there is one study that is not yet complete. The included studies (carried out in the UK and Ireland) involved more than 13,000 women with low‐risk pregnancies. Three trials were funded by the hospitals were the trials took place and one trial was funded by the Scottish government. 
Women allocated to admission CTG were probably more likely to have a caesarean section than women allocated to intermittent auscultation (moderate quality evidence). There was no difference in the number of instrumental vaginal births (low quality evidence) or in numbers of babies who died during or shortly after labour (moderate quality evidence) between women in the two groups. Admission CTG was associated with an increase in the use of continuous EFM (with an electrode placed on the baby’s scalp) (low quality evidence) and fetal blood sampling (a small blood sample taken from a baby's scalp) during labour. There were no differences in other outcomes measured such as artificial rupture of the membranes, augmentation of labour, use of an epidural, damage to the baby's brain due to lack of oxygen (very low quality evidence), or the baby having fits or seizures just after birth (low quality evidence). No studies reported if the babies developed any severe problems in brain or central nervous system growth and development after one year of age. 
