Lidocaine for prevention of a sore throat following an operation under general anaesthetic
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of the effect of lidocaine for preventing a sore throat in people following an operation under general anaesthetic. (General anaesthetics are medicines used to send people asleep. They can be given via an intravenous line (IV) into the person's veins, via a mask, or via an endotracheal tube placed through the mouth past the larynx (voicebox) into the trachea. In this review the anaesthetic was given via an endotracheal tube.) 
Background 
Sore throat is a common side‐effect of having a general anaesthetic. It is usually caused by the endotracheal tube that is inserted through a person's mouth, placed in the airway, to keep their airway open and make sure that person is breathing properly. People sometimes buck and cough when the tube is inserted in their airway and even if they do not, the presence of the tube during the operation can give them a sore throat. It may be possible to use drugs, such as the local anaesthetic lidocaine, to prevent postoperative sore throat. (A local anaesthetic prevents a person feeling pain. It is given to one specific area rather than the whole body.) 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to October 2013. We included 19 randomized controlled trials (1940 participants) in this updated review. (We reran the search in February 2015 and found four studies of interest. We will deal with those studies when we next update the review.) Lidocaine was either put into the cuff (the cuff makes sure that the tube stays in place), sprayed onto the person's vocal cords, or used as a gel smeared on the end of the tube. 
Key results 
The summarized results of the included studies showed positive results. However, the interpretation of the results should be judged carefully. Though the possible adverse effects of using lidocaine were not reported in the included studies, there are a few case reports about lidocaine toxicity, although this is very rare. 
Quality of evidence 
For lidocaine therapy versus control, the quality of the evidence for risk of sore throat was low (according to Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE)). This is because most of the trials did not describe how allocation was concealed and the results of the risk of sore throat were inconsistent, the quality of the evidence of the severity of sore throat , measured by the visual‐analogue scale, was moderate (according to GRADE). 
