Clobazam monotherapy for focal or generalized seizures
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for clobazam monotherapy for the treatment of new‐onset or untreated focal or generalized seizures. 
Background 
Epilepsy is characterized by an abnormal propensity for the brain to have seizures, which are discrete episodes of abnormal neuronal electrical activity. Seizures may arise from a particular part (focal seizures) or whole of the brain at once (generalized seizures). In this review we assessed clobazam as monotherapy (single‐drug treatment) for new‐onset or untreated focal or generalized onset seizures. 
Study characteristics 
Our searches identified three studies of low quality comparing clobazam with carbamazepine and phenytoin for monotherapy of seizures. They included a multi‐center study that compared the effectiveness of clobazam and carbamazepine monotherapy in 115 children with untreated epilepsy; a single‐center study comparing clobazam with phenytoin in 48 adolescents and adults with neurocysticercosis; and a single‐center study comparing clobazam with carbamazepine monotherapy in 43 children with benign childhood epilepsy with centrotemporal spikes (BCECTS). In clinical trials with anti‐seizure medications, effectiveness is conventionally measured by the time a person remains on the allocated treatment, which reflects that the person will stop taking medicine either if it is ineffective or if there are unacceptable adverse effects. 
Key results 
No significant advantage of clobazam over carbamazepine in people with previously untreated focal or generalized seizures was seen for retention at 12 months. A slight advantage of clobazam over phenytoin for retention at six months was noted in one study, which was limited to participants having seizures due to neurocysticercosis. No significant differences in proportion of BCECTS participants who achieved seizure freedom at four weeks, between four and 40 weeks, and during the last nine months of treatment between clobazam and carbamazepine were found. Also, no significant difference in the proportion of participants who achieved a 50% or greater reduction in their seizures at four weeks on clobazam versus carbamazepine was noted. However, participants randomized to clobazam achieved seizure control sooner than those treated with carbamazepine. 
None of the studies measured the amount of time that participants remained on allocated treatment (retention time), or quality of life. We did assess data from the studies regarding the number of participants who remained on treatment at specific time points. However, we were unable to determine whether people with previously untreated focal or generalized seizures receiving clobazam were more likely to remain on treatment at 12 months than those given carbamazepine due to low numbers of participants in the study. One of the studies showed that social and academic outcomes improved in participants taking clobazam as well as carbamazepine; however, there was no comparative analysis. 
