Second‐generation antidepressants for winter depression
Background 
Seasonal affective disorder (winter depression) is a type of depression that recurs in the autumn and lasts until the spring. Its symptoms are similar to those of regular depression, except sufferers are usually very tired and have an increase in their appetite. It is more common in countries with few daylight hours in winter. One of the mainstays of treatment for all depression, including winter depression, is second‐generation antidepressants (SGAs), such as selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs). It is not clear how well these drugs work and how they compare to each other or to other types of therapy for winter depression, such as light therapy. 
Results 
We found three trials with a total of 204 participants that looked at one SGA (fluoxetine) compared with placebo (dummy pill) or light therapy. One trial (68 participants) compared fluoxetine with placebo, although participants receiving fluoxetine were more likely to respond to treatment, there wasn't enough data to be sure of any differences with placebo. Approximately the same number of participants in both groups experienced a side effect. 
We found two trials with a total of 136 participants that compared fluoxetine with light therapy. When we combined the results of these two trials, we found that the two treatments were similar in their effects: approximately 66 out of 100 people improved in both the fluoxetine and light therapy groups. The number of participants with side effects was also about the same in the fluoxetine and light therapy groups. 
We found five additional studies that provided information on the safety of SGAs for the treatment of winter depression. They reported side effects of the SGAs bupropion, fluoxetine, escitalopram, duloxetine, nefazodone, and reboxetine. We were unable to compare the drugs directly, but we can report that about 0% to 25% of people left the study early due to side effects, and the most common side effects were nausea, diarrhoea, disturbed sleep, decreased sex drive, dry mouth, and agitation. We could not compare the rates of side effects in people taking SGAs compared with placebo, which means that our confidence in the information on side effects is limited. 
