Route of antibiotic prophylaxis for prevention of cerebrospinal fluid‐shunt infection
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effect of different administration routes of antibiotics given to prevent shunt infection in people who received a cerebrospinal fluid shunt. 
Background 
People with hydrocephalus (an excessive amount of cerebrospinal fluid within the brain, due to a blockage within their brain cavities or in their reabsorbing system) can be treated by implanting a cerebrospinal fluid shunt. This shunt is a tube running from the brain to either the heart or the abdomen in order to drain the excessive amount of cerebrospinal fluid to other body compartments where it will be reabsorbed. One of the most common problems after the implantation is infection of the shunt. Patients become sick and in most cases the shunt needs to be removed and a new one needs to be implanted after the patient has recovered. In order to reduce the number of infections surgeons administer antibiotics before, during or after surgery, or in various combinations, in order to protect the patient against bacteria that can infect the shunt. These antibiotics can be administered in different ways: orally; intravenously; directly into the brain cavities; directly on the shunt; and via the implantation of antibiotic‐impregnated shunt catheters. 
Results 
We included 11 studies up to January 2018 in this review, comprising a total of 1109 participants who had received a cerebrospinal fluid shunt for hydrocephalus. The majority of the included studies were small and of variable duration (from eight weeks to more than one year). We found that administration of antibiotics is effective in the prevention of shunt infections (very low quality evidence). As the included studies are few, the interventions used differed markedly and the certainty of the evidence for our outcomes was very low, our results prevented a clear conclusion as to what type of antibiotic and administration route is most effective in the prevention of shunt infection. 
