The use of computed tomography angiography (CTA) to confirm the clinical diagnosis of brain death 
This Cochrane diagnostic test accuracy review looked at the evidence for the radiology test computed tomography angiography (CTA), which demonstrates blood flow in the main vessels of the brain, to support the results of clinical tests of brain function performed in unconscious patients on mechanical breathing machines who are thought by their doctors to have died. 
Establishing a correct diagnosis is very important as the diagnosis confirms the death of the patient, which will have profound legal and societal implications including making organs available for transplantation. The diagnosis of death using neurological criteria, or brain death, is usually made by performing a highly specific set of clinical tests on the patient. However in some cases, for example when patients are anaesthetized or heavily sedated, performing these tests may not be possible and additional tests are required such as CTA. In some countries it is a statutory requirement for doctors to always carry out an additional test and recently some clinicians have called for these additional tests to be mandatory even when there is no statutory requirement. It is important for doctors to know how useful CTA is when compared to, or added to, the usual clinical tests. 
Ten studies were found, including 366 patients in total. Most of the studies were performed in intensive care departments but involved only small numbers of patients. In most studies it would be possible for the doctors performing the CTA test to already know the results of the clinical test. This might affect the study results, however this situation would also be the case in normal medical practice. Methods used to report the CTA study also varied from study to study and so the published results were re‐analysed to take this into account. 
When compared to clinical testing for brain death, the CTA test had a sensitivity of 0.85. This means that in 100 cases of patients satisfying the clinical tests for death, the CTA test will correctly identify 85 of the cases. The data also showed that this might be as few as 77 cases per 100 and as many as 91 cases per 100. Our review was unable to tell us how many patients the CTA might falsely give a diagnosis of death for, when the patient was not dead. Based on these results, it appears that CTA is not good enough to be a compulsory test. 
