Overview of Cochrane Reviews of interventions used during surgery for preventing surgical site infection 
What is the aim of this overview of reviews? 
To identify and summarise all evidence from Cochrane Reviews on interventions to prevent surgical site infections (SSIs) that are delivered while surgery is taking place (during the intraoperative period). 
Key messages 
We cannot be certain about the effectiveness in preventing SSI of the majority of intraoperative interventions, as we judged the certainty of the evidence to be generally low or very low. In some circumstances (listed below), antibiotics were effective for the prevention of SSI. There is no high‐ or moderate‐certainty evidence for the relative effects of intraoperative interventions on mortality, and no data at all for quality of life or costs. For these reasons, we cannot be certain whether these antibiotics, which are effective at preventing SSI, have any negative effects on mortality or quality of life. Larger trials with appropriate methods are needed to measure the outcomes that are important to both patients and health professionals. 
What was studied in the overview? 
If bacteria get into a surgical cut during surgery, this can result in a wound infection commonly called an SSI. SSIs are one of the most common forms of healthcare‐associated infections, with around 1 in 20 surgical patients developing an SSI in hospital. SSIs can also develop after people have left hospital. SSIs can result in delayed wound healing, increased hospital stays, increased use of antibiotics, unnecessary pain and, in extreme cases, death. Their prevention is therefore a key aim for health services. Many interventions are used to reduce the risk of SSI in people having surgery. These interventions can be delivered at three stages: before, during and after the operation. It is therefore important to identify interventions that can reduce the incidence of SSIs. This overview focuses only on interventions delivered during surgery. 
What are the main results of the overview? 
In July 2017 we searched for Cochrane Reviews involving interventions for preventing SSIs during surgery. We found a total of 32 Cochrane Reviews that could be included in this overview. Two reviews had no relevant data to extract so we extracted data from 30 reviews with 349 included trials, totaling 73,053 participants. Interventions assessed included use of disposable face masks and surgical gloves, the use of oxygen during surgery, antiseptics for hand washing, patient skin preparation and cleaning the vagina before caesarean section, methods of surgical incision and skin closure and use of antibiotics to prevent infection. 
Evidence of at least moderate certainty indicates that the following interventions reduce SSI risk: (1) antibiotics administered via drip before caesarean incision reduce SSI risk compared with administration after cord clamping (high‐certainty evidence); (2) giving antibiotics before surgery reduces SSI risk compared with placebo after breast cancer surgery (high‐certainty evidence); (3) antibiotics used to prevent wound infections probably reduce SSIs for caesarean section compared with no antibiotics (moderate‐certainty evidence); (4) antibiotics used to prevent wound infections probably reduce SSI risk for hernia repair compared with placebo or no treatment (moderate‐certainty evidence); (5) iodine‐impregnated adhesive drapes probably make no difference to SSI risk compared with no adhesive drapes (moderate‐certainty evidence); (6) there is probably no difference in SSI risk when antibiotics are given in the short‐term compared to the long‐term during colorectal surgery (moderate‐certainty evidence). One comparison showed that adhesive drapes increase the SSI risk compared with no drapes (high‐certainty evidence). Overall, we judged the certainty of evidence for our primary outcomes (SSIs and death) to be low or very low. 
