Pain‐relieving agents for infantile colic
Review question 
Do infants who have colic during the first four months of life benefit from pain‐relieving agents (substances to alleviate/prevent pain) when compared with infants who are given no substance or a placebo (a substance that is identical to the drug but has no active ingredient)? 
Background 
Infantile colic, which is a common problem in infancy, occurs in the first four months of life in otherwise healthy infants. It is characterised by episodes of excessive crying and often leads to anxiety in parents and in doctors who work with infants. 
Pain‐relieving agents, such as drugs (e.g. simethicone, dicyclomine, cimetropium), herbal remedies (e.g. Matricaria recutita, Foeniculum vulgare, Melissa officinalis) and sugar, have been proposed to reduce the symptoms associated with infantile colic, particularly the amount of time spent crying. 
Study characteristics 
We found 18 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants were randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) involving 1014 infants with infantile colic. The evidence is current to May 2016. 
Infants were eight to 16 weeks old, and males and females were equally represented. All infants had colic, defined in one of two ways. Some studies defined it as inconsolable crying in otherwise healthy infants, lasting longer than three hours per day for more than three days a week for longer than three weeks. Other studies defined colic as attacks of screaming and crying (usually in the afternoon, or in the early evening) during which the infant failed to respond to any amount of comforting by adults. 
Four studies explored the effects of simethicone (a drug used to reduce excess gas in the intestinal tract); four studies looked at herbal agents (plant‐derived remedies that might have relaxing properties that reduce cramps and pains in the bowel); two studies looked at sugar; and five studies explored the effects of dicyclomine and two the effects of cimetropium bromide (drugs that relieve bowel muscle spasms). One study compared sucrose and herbal tea in a group of infants who received no treatment for colic. 
Sixteen of 18 studies compared the intervention with a placebo. Among the other two studies, one compared simethicone with Mentha piperita, and the other compared two different dosages of cimetropium. 
Included studies received funding from different sources: a public institution (two studies), academic funds (one study) and private companies (three studies). Three studies received no funding. Nine studies did not report whether the study received funding. In four studies that reported no funds and no details about funds, private companies supplied the products (pain‐relieving agents). 
Key results 
Available data provide no evidence that sugar, dicyclomine and cimetropium are effective interventions in the treatment of colic. Some evidence suggests that, compared with placebo or no treatment, herbal agents may reduce crying time. However, because the quality of these studies was very poor and the extent of the benefit observed was variable, these results should be interpreted with caution. The same is true for sugar, dicyclomine and cimetropium, for which we judged the quality of evidence as low or very low. 
Studies that tested simethicone reported no benefit from administration of this drug over placebo. 
Two studies reported side effects for dicyclomine, for example, difficulty awakening, wide‐eyed state and drowsiness. Studies of other pain‐relieving agents reported no side effects as a result of treatment. 
