Cryotherapy for liver metastases
Review question 
Is cryotherapy (cooling) beneficial or harmful for local destruction of cancer (tumours) spread to the liver? 
Background 
When cancer spreads in the body (metastasis), one of the most common sites is the liver. Besides cancers of the liver (primary liver cancer), liver metastases from colorectal cancer are the most common cancer affecting the liver. More than half of people who have cancer spread to the liver die from complications. Cryotherapy is one of methods, used to destroy metastases in the liver. This method requires placing a special probe near the cancer site. The probe is used to deliver extreme cold to the site, which is produced by liquid nitrogen or argon gas. Placement of the probe can be guided using ultrasound or computed tomography (a special x‐ray). The rapid freezing process kills the cancer cells, and the size of the cancer is reduced. However, it is not clear if this treatment prolongs life or increases quality of life of affected people. 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of cryotherapy in destroying cancer metastases in the liver. We searched for studies assessing the effect of cryotherapy in comparison with no treatment or any other treatment in people with liver metastases from cancer of any location. We aimed to assess the effect of cryotherapy on the risk of death, quality of life, and adverse events (side effects caused by the treatment). 
Study characteristics 
We last searched for evidence in June 2018. We included only one trial conducted in Ukraine, and participants' primary cancer was colorectal (bowel) cancer in 66% of instances, but there were also people with stomach, breast, skin, and other tumours. All of them had cancer spread to the liver. In this trial, 123 participants were allocated at random to receive either cryotherapy (63 people) or conventional surgery (affected parts of the liver were removed; 60 people). 
Funding 
The trial did not provide information on funding.
Key results 
The trial was at high risk of bias. The participants were followed for up to 10 years (minimum five months). The trial reported that the mortality at 10 years was 81% (51/63) in the cryotherapy group and 92% (55/60) in the conventional surgery group. We judged the evidence as low‐certainty evidence. We found no evidence of a difference in proportion of participants with recurrence of the malignancy in the liver: 86% (54/63) of the participants in the cryotherapy group and 95% (57/60) of the participants in the conventional surgery group developed a new malignancy (low‐certainty evidence). The frequency of reported complications was similar between the cryotherapy group and the conventional surgery group, except for postoperative pain. Both insignificant and pronounced pain were reported to be more common in the cryotherapy group while intense pain was reported to be more common in the conventional surgery group. However, it was not reported whether there was any evidence of a difference. The frequency of unwanted effects (adverse events or complications) was mostly similar in both groups, but pain intensity and frequency seemed to differ between the groups. There were no intervention‐related mortality or bile leakages. The trial did not provide data on quality of life; cancer mortality, and time to progression of liver metastases. 
Reliability of the evidence 
The evidence for the effectiveness of cryotherapy versus conventional surgery in people with liver metastases is of low certainty. We are uncertain about our estimate and cannot determine whether cryotherapy compared with conventional surgery is beneficial or harmful. We found no evidence for the benefits or harms of cryotherapy compared with no intervention, or versus systemic treatments. 
