The effect of the timing of statin administration on hyperlipidaemia
Background 
Cardiovascular disease (CVD), which comprises heart attacks (myocardial infarction), angina, and strokes, is the principal cause of death in the world and is a major cause of morbidity worldwide. High blood cholesterol is linked to CVD events and is an important risk factor. Therefore, decreasing high blood cholesterol is an important way to reduce the chances of suffering a CVD event. Blood cholesterol may come from foods that are high in fat, and is also produced by some of our body’s organs (most of this production is at night (between 12:00 am and 6:00 am). 
Statins ‐ cholesterol‐lowering drugs ‐ (e.g. simvastatin, lovastatin, pravastatin, atorvastatin) are the first‐choice treatments for preventing CVD when high blood cholesterol exists. In usual clinical practice, statins are given once per day, without specifying the time when they should be taken. The aim of this review is to analyse whether the timing of taking the statin influences the reduction of CVD events, improves blood cholesterol levels, or affects treatment safety. 
Study characteristics 
We found eight randomised controlled trials that compared the effects between morning and evening statin administration in 767 people. Each trial evaluated different types and doses of statins. These trials were published between 1990 and 2013 and were conducted in the USA, Canada, Germany, Finland, Japan, South Korea and Thailand. This review includes evidence identified up to November 2015. 
Key results 
No trials assessed CVD clinical events or deaths. Evaluation of the available evidence indicated that there were no differences between evening or morning administration of statins in terms of lipid levels (total cholesterol, low‐density lipoprotein cholesterol (LDL‐C), high‐density lipoprotein cholesterol (HDL‐C), triglycerides). Additionally, there was no difference in the rate of adverse events associated with statins between both regimens. 
