Support surfaces for treating pressure ulcers
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether different support surfaces such as specially‐designed beds, mattresses or cushions can help to treat pressure ulcers. Researchers from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question, and found 19 relevant studies. 
Key messages 
We cannot be certain which support surfaces are most effective for pressure ulcer treatment as the studies comparing them did not involve enough people and were not well designed. 
What was studied in the review? 
Pressure ulcers (also called pressure sores, decubitus ulcers and bed sores) are wounds to the skin and underlying tissue caused by pressure or rubbing. They typically form at points on the body which are bony or which bear weight or pressure, such as the hips, buttocks, heels and elbows. People who have mobility problems or who lie in bed for long periods are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. A range of treatments, including wound dressings and support surfaces like special mattresses and cushions, are used to treat pressure ulcers. 
Support surfaces for pressure ulcer treatment can include specially‐designed beds, mattresses, mattress overlays and cushions that are used to protect vulnerable parts of the body and distribute the surface pressure more evenly. Low‐tech support surfaces include mattresses filled with foam, fluid, beads or air; and alternative foam mattresses and overlays. High‐tech support surfaces include mattresses and overlays that are electrically powered to alternate the pressure within the surface, beds that are powered to have air mechanically circulated within them and low‐air‐loss beds that contain warm air moving within pockets inside the bed. Other support surfaces include sheepskins, cushions and operating table overlays. 
We wanted to find out which support surfaces were most effective in helping pressure ulcers to heal. We also wanted to compare different support surfaces in terms of cost, reliability, durability, and the benefits or harms for patients using them. 
What are the main results of the review? 
In September 2017, we searched for trials looking at support surfaces for treating pressure ulcers and which reported their effects on wound healing. We found 19 trials involving 3241 participants, all adults, the majority of whom were older people and bed‐bound in hospitals or nursing homes. In studies where participants' sex was reported, the majority were women. Not all studies reported their funding sources, but two of those who did were funded by device manufacturers. 
Five studies involving 318 participants compared low‐tech constant low‐pressure (CLP) support surfaces such as foam mattresses. We cannot be certain how these different support surfaces affect pressure ulcer healing as the evidence is mainly of low certainty. Fourteen studies involving 2923 participants compared different high‐tech support surfaces such as air‐fluidised beds. Again, we cannot be certain how these different support surfaces affect ulcer healing rates as the certainty of the evidence is mainly low. 
