Subcutaneous rapid‐acting insulin analogues for diabetic ketoacidosis
Review question 
What are the effects of subcutaneous rapid‐acting insulin analogues compared with standard intravenous infusion of regular insulin for the treatment of diabetic ketoacidosis? 
Background 
Rapid‐acting insulin analogues (artificial insulin such as insulin lispro, insulin aspart, or insulin glulisine) act more quickly than regular human insulin. In people with a specific type of life‐threatening diabetic coma due to uncontrolled diabetes, called diabetic ketoacidosis, prompt administration of intravenous regular insulin is standard therapy. The rapid‐acting insulin analogues, if injected subcutaneously, act faster than subcutaneously administered regular insulin. The need for a continuous intravenous infusion, an intervention that usually requires admission to an intensive care unit, can thereby be avoided. This means that subcutaneously given insulin analogues for diabetic ketoacidosis might be applied in the emergency department and a general medicine ward. 
Study characteristics 
We found five randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with a total of 201 participants. Most trials did not report on type of diabetes. Younger diabetic participants and children were underrepresented in our included trials (one trial only). Participants in four trials received treatment with insulin lispro, and one trial with 45 participants investigated insulin aspart. The average follow‐up as measured by mean hospital stay ranged between two and seven days. The study authors termed the diabetic ketoacidosis being treated with insulin analogues or regular insulin as mild or moderate. This evidence is up to date as of October 2015. 
Key results 
Our results are most relevant for adults with mild or moderate diabetic ketoacidosis due to undertreatment of diabetes. No deaths occurred. Time to resolution of diabetic ketoacidosis from the start of therapy did not differ substantially between the two insulin treatment schemes (approximately 11 hours). Hypoglycaemic (low blood sugar) episodes were comparable: 118 per 1000 participants for intravenous insulin compared with 70 per 1000 participants for subcutaneous insulin lispro (no statistically significant difference). The mean length of hospital stay also showed no marked differences. No trial reported on side effects other than hypoglycaemic episodes or investigated patient satisfaction. No serious events associated with diabetic ketoacidosis were seen during insulin lispro treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
Our results were limited by mostly low‐ to very low‐quality evidence, mainly because the number of included trials and participants was low. Further research is very likely to have an important impact on our findings. 
