Aquatic exercise training for fibromyalgia
Research question 
We reviewed studies on the effects of aquatic exercise training for people with fibromyalgia on wellness, symptoms, fitness, and adverse effects. 
Background: what is fibromyalgia and what is aquatic training? 
People with fibromyalgia have persistent, widespread body pain and often experience symptoms such as fatigue, stiffness, depression, and difficulty sleeping. 
Aquatic training is exercising in a pool while standing at waist, chest, or shoulder depth. This review examined the effects of supervised group aquatic training programs (led by an instructor). 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up to October 2013 and found 16 studies with 866 women and 15 men with fibromyalgia; 439 were assigned to aquatic training programs. 
Nine studies compared aquatic exercise to no exercise; five studies compared aquatic exercise to land‐based exercise, and two studies compared aquatic training to a different aquatic training. 
Key results: for those who took part in aquatic exercise training compared to people who did not exercise 
Overall well‐being (multidimensional function) on a scale of 0 to 100 units 
Those who did aquatic exercise rated their overall well‐being six units better at the end of the study than those who did not exercise. 
Physical function (ability to do normal activities) on a scale of 0 to 100 units 
Those who did aquatic exercise rated their ability to function four units better at the end of the study than those who did not exercise. 
Pain on a scale of 0 to 100 units 
Those who did aquatic exercise rated their pain seven units better at the end of the study than those who did not exercise. 
Stiffness on a scale of 0 to 100 units 
Those who did aquatic exercise rated their stiffness 18 units better at the end of the study than those who did not exercise. 
Muscle strength 
People who did aquatic training improved their muscle strength by 37% more than those who did not do aquatic training. 
Cardiovascular fitness estimated by meters walked in six minutes 
Those who did aquatic exercise walked 37 meters further at the end of the study than those who did not exercise. 
Dropping out of the studies 
Two more participants out of 100 in the aquatic training groups dropped out of the studies (15 aquatic exercisers dropped out while 13 non‐exercisers dropped out). 
Quality of evidence ‐ aquatic versus control 
Further research on overall well being and ability to function is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in these results and may change the results. 
