Antibiotics compared with no treatment or placebo for the treatment of toxoplasma retinochoroiditis 
Review question  Are antibiotics an effective treatment for toxoplasma retinochoroiditis? 
Background  Toxoplasma retinochoroiditis occurs when a parasite called Toxoplasma gondii gets into the retina (the light‐sensitive layer inside the eye) and the choroid (layer of the eyeball near the retina). This causes inflammation that can scar the retina and reduce vision. Symptoms include a sudden feeling of discomfort in the eye and loss of vision, which usually resolve spontaneously within six to eight weeks. The infection can keep returning, increasing the chances of damage. Antibiotics are sometimes used to try to reduce the inflammation and scarring, or to prevent the infection from re‐emerging, but it is unclear how well they work. 
Study characteristics  We found four studies with a total of 268 participants. These studies were conducted in Brazil, the UK, and the US. The evidence is current to 22 February 2016. 
Key results  Only one of the four studies compared the effect of antibiotic treatment for 12 months with placebo on visual acuity and found similar changes in both groups. Three studies examined the effect of antibiotics on reducing the number of recurring episodes of the disease. Two of these three studies were conducted in Brazil in adults infected with the more aggressive South American strains of the parasite, which can cause frequently recurring eye symptoms. The studies from Brazil found that the long‐term antibiotics over 14 and 12 months, respectively, reduced the number of recurrent episodes of retinochoroiditis. The other study did not find that short‐term (eight weeks) treatment with antibiotics made any difference. Two studies reported an improvement in intraocular inflammation in antibiotic‐treated compared with untreated participants, and one study reported no changes. Two studies investigated side effects of giving antibiotics such as decreased white blood cells, loss of appetite, rashes and other allergic reactions and found only weak evidence that antibiotics increase the risk of side effects. 
