Psychosocial interventions for men with prostate cancer
Approximately one in six men will be diagnosed with prostate cancer in their lifetime, and the number of men living with, or after, the diagnosis will continue to rise. Some of them will experience problems such as difficulty in passing urine, pain and sexual dysfunction, and these may cause distress, anxiety, uncertainty or depression. Their quality of life may therefore be affected. Health professionals often provide interventions to address some of these prostate cancer–related symptoms and the psychosocial problems that they may cause. However as yet, we do not know how effective, collectively, these interventions are. 
In this review, we assessed studies that compared the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions versus the usual care that participants received. The evidence is current to October 2013. Nineteen studies, with a total of 3204 men at different stages of prostate cancer, were included. All but three of these studies were carried out in the United States. The review focused on the following outcomes: quality of life, self‐efficacy, knowledge, uncertainty, distress and depression. 
The results show that psychosocial interventions resulted in small improvements in quality of life at end of intervention; however, it is not clear whether these small improvements actually made a difference to participants. The interventions were also effective in increasing knowledge up to three months after the intervention. No evidence suggests that these interventions improved self‐efficacy or reduced uncertainty, distress and depression in men with prostate cancer. No clear evidence shows that group‐based interventions were, on the whole, more effective than individual‐based ones for most of the outcomes measured in this review. All of these findings should be treated with caution, as the quality of the evidence was largely rated as very low. Some of these studies were small, and the number of participants who dropped out of some studies was high. The men were at various stages of prostate cancer. Interventions also varied in terms of content, delivery and how long they lasted. More and better research is needed to determine which types of psychosocial interventions are effective for meeting the needs of men at different stages of prostate cancer. 
