The use of the sodium channel blockers in people with multiple sclerosis (MS)
Background 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is an autoimmune, inflammatory, demyelinating disease of the central nervous system. It can result in a wide range of symptoms including sensory impairment, fatigue, walking or balance problems, visual impairment, vertigo and cognitive disabilities. At present, the most commonly used MS treatments are immunomodulating agents, such as beta interferon, glatiramer acetate, natalizumab, fingolimod, teriflunomide and dimethyl fumarate. Although these agents have all been shown to reduce relapse frequency, they have little effect on the disability that characterises the progressive forms of the disease. Animal studies show the sodium (Na+) accumulation leads to intracellular calcium (Ca2+) release, and the increased calcium levels can activate the release of harmful elements. These elements contribute to axonal injury exacerbating the neurological disability. If partial blockade of voltage‐gated sodium channels could result in neuroprotection in patients with MS, this would be of benefit in preventing the progression of disability in these patients. Neuroprotection is emerging as a potentially important strategy for preventing disability progression in MS. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), in which participants were randomly assigned to a treatment group or a control group. In most settings these studies provide the highest quality evidence. We were interested in studies that compared a sodium channel blocker with placebo, or used it as an add‐on to any approved treatments for MS. 
Key results 
We found only one study including a total of 120 participants. No data were found on disability progression and people who experienced relapses. No significant difference between two groups was found in measurements of cerebral atrophy, expanded disability score changes, or MS functional composite score changes. Treatment with lamotrigine was associated with more rashes (20% versus 5%) and transient, dose‐related deterioration of mobility. There is a lack of evidence to address the review question on the efficacy of sodium channel blockers for people with MS. This review will be updated when the three ongoing studies we identified are completed. 
