Antimicrobial agents for preventing urinary tract infections in adults undergoing cystoscopy 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the benefits and harms of using antibiotics for cystoscopy (an examination of the inside of bladder) to prevent urinary tract infections (UTI). 
Background 
Cystoscopy may cause UTIs. This may cause bothersome symptoms like burning with urination due to an infection limited to the bladder or fevers and chills due to a more serious infection that has goes to the bloodstream, or a combination of burning, fevers, and chills. Antibiotics may prevent infections and reduce these symptoms but can also cause unwanted effects. It is uncertain whether people should be given antibiotics before this procedure. 
Study characteristics 
We found 22 studies with 7711 participants. These studies were published from 1971 to 2017. In these studies, chance decided whether people received an antibiotic or a placebo/no treatment. The evidence is current to 4 February 2019. 
Key results 
Antibiotics given for UTI prevention before cystoscopy may have had little or no effect on the risk of developing a more serious infection that went into the bloodstream. 
They may have reduced the risk of infection when both serious infection that went into the bloodstream and infections limited to the bladder were taken together. 
None of the people included in the trials had serious unwanted effects. Therefore, we concluded that antibiotics given for prevention of UTIs may not cause serious unwanted effects but we are very uncertain of this finding. 
Antibiotics may also have had little or no effect on minor unwanted effects. They may also have had little or no effect on infections limited to the bladder taken alone, but we were very uncertain of this finding. People treated with antibiotics may have been more likely to have bacteria that were more resistant to antibiotics, but we are very uncertain of this finding. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence as low or very low meaning that our confidence in the results was limited or very limited. The true effect of antibiotics for prevention of UTIs before cystoscopy may be quite different from what this review found. 
