Interventions throughout life for the prevention or treatment of anaemia
What is the issue? 
Anaemia (low iron levels in the blood) is a health problem worldwide, caused by nutritional (e.g. nutrient deficiencies) or non‐nutritional (e.g. diseases or genetic disorders) factors. Its health consequences include fatigue, loss of productivity and adverse pregnancy and child outcomes. 
Why is this important? 
Iron deficiency (ID) is a common cause of nutritional anaemia, resulting from a lack of iron in the diet or reduced absorption of iron in the body (e.g. components in coffee, tea or cocoa inhibit iron absorption, while beverages and foods high in vitamin C, such as fruits and vegetables, enhance iron absorption). Some types of anaemia are preventable or controllable with iron supplementation (via capsules or drops), fortification (food enriched with sprinkles or powders containing iron) or improvements to diet diversity and quality (e.g. education or counselling). 
What evidence did we find? 
Infants (6 to 23 months) 
Two reviews suggested that iron supplementation increased haemoglobin (Hb) levels, and reduced the risk of anaemia and iron deficiency anaemia (IDA) compared with placebo, no intervention or other interventions. Six reviews suggested that iron fortification of milk or cereals, multiple‐micronutrient powder (MMNP), home fortification of complementary foods and supplementary feeding increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia. In one review apiece, lipid‐based nutrient supplementation (LNS) reduced the risk of anaemia, while caterpillar cereal increased Hb levels and reduced IDA prevalence. 
Preschool and school‐aged children (2 to 10 years) 
Two reviews suggested that daily or intermittent (e.g. 1 to 3 times per week) iron supplementation increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia and ID. For daily versus intermittent iron supplementation, one review found no difference in Hb levels, but an increased risk of anaemia and ID for the intermittent regime. One review apiece found higher Hb levels and reduced risk of anaemia and ID for zinc plus iron supplementation versus zinc alone, multiple‐micronutrient (MMN)‐fortified beverages, and point‐of‐use fortification of food with iron‐containing micronutrient powder (MNP). 
Adolescent children (11 to 18 years) 
Three reviews for prevention or treatment suggested that intermittent iron supplementation alone or in combination with other micronutrients, iron supplementation with or without folic acid supplementation, or other micronutrient supplementation increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia. One review suggested that nutritional supplementation and counselling reduced IDA. In one review for prevention, iron supplementation with or without folic acid appeared to increase Hb levels but have no effect on the incidence of anaemia. 
Non‐pregnant women of reproductive age (19 to 49 years) 
Two reviews suggested that iron therapy (oral, intravenous, intramuscular) increased Hb levels. One review found that intravenous iron increased Hb levels compared with oral iron, and another that daily iron supplementation with or without folic acid or vitamin C increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia and ID. 
Pregnant women of reproductive age (15 to 49 years) 
In one review, daily iron supplementation with or without folic acid increased Hb levels in the third trimester or at delivery, and in the postpartum period, and reduced the risk of anaemia, IDA and ID in the third trimester or at delivery. Six reviews suggested that intravenous iron versus oral iron or intramuscular iron increased Hb levels. In one review, vitamin A supplementation alone versus placebo, no intervention or other micronutrient increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia for the mother. One review found that supplementation with oral bovine lactoferrin versus oral ferrous iron preparations increased Hb levels and reduced gastrointestinal side effects. In one review, compared to iron or folic acid and MMNs, LNS increased the risk of anaemia. 
Mixed population (all ages) 
Iron supplementation versus placebo or control increased Hb levels in healthy children, adults, and elderly people in four reviews. In two reviews, MMN fortification versus placebo or no treatment increased Hb levels in children, as did iron supplementation, but Hb levels decreased for those receiving dietary interventions. Intravenous iron resulted in higher Hb levels than oral iron in one review. In another, vitamin B12 or folic acid supplementation did not increase Hb levels. Each review suggested that iron fortification of food, iron‐fortified soy sauce, double‐fortified salt with iron and iodine, and fortified condiments or noodles increased Hb levels and reduced the risk of anaemia. In one review, foods prepared in iron pots showed the potential to increase Hb levels in children. 
No review focused on older adult women (50 to 65 years plus) or men (19 to 65 years plus), and anaemia and malaria prevalence were rarely reported. 
What does this mean? 
Compared to no treatment, daily iron supplementation may increase Hb levels and reduce the risk of anaemia and IDA in infants, preschool and school‐aged children and pregnant and non‐pregnant women. Iron fortification of foods in infants and use of iron pots with children may have benefits for low‐risk populations. Many trials reported the effects of supplementations, but very few reviews focused on fortification or improving diet diversity and quality. Future trials should focus on different types of interventions to increase food variety and dietary quality. 
