Multiple drug combinations of bortezomib, lenalidomide and thalidomide for initial treatment of adults with transplant‐ineligible multiple myeloma 
Background 
Multiple myeloma is a type of blood cancer. It accounts for approximately 2% of all cancers and is still considered incurable. For people with newly diagnosed multiple myeloma (NDMM), who are unsuitable for a procedure where damaged blood cells are replaced with healthy ones (stem‐cell transplant), treatment is usually a multiple drug combination of bortezomib, lenalidomide, or thalidomide, plus melphalan and prednisolone (MP) or dexamethasone (D). Multiple drug combinations are approved for initial anti‐myeloma therapy, however, access to these medicines is restricted in many countries worldwide. 
Aim of the review 
To compare the benefits and harms of selected anti‐myeloma drugs (bortezomib (V), lenalidomide (R), thalidomide (T)) for transplant‐unsuitable NDMM. 
Study characteristics 
We searched selected medical databases and trial registries until 14th February 2019. We included studies comparing multiple drug combinations of V, R, and T for the treatment of people with NDMM who were unsuitable for a stem‐cell transplant. We differentiated between fixed treatment duration and continuous therapy. Fixed therapy is a pre‐specified number of cycles, while a continuous therapy is given until the disease gets worse, the person finds the drug hard to tolerate, or when the treatment is given for a prolonged period. Continuous therapies are indicated with a "c". 
Key results 
We identified 25 studies involving 11,403 transplant‐unsuitable adults with NDMM, and comparing 21 different treatment regimens. 
Survival 
People who had the standard treatment, MP, lived for an average of 35 months. People treated with RD, TMP, and VRDc probably live for much longer (moderate certainty). Treatment with VMP may also lead to much longer survival, compared to MP (low certainty). People treated with RD lived for an additional 20.4 months; with TMP an additional 11.6 months; with VRDc an additional 36.2 months, and with VMP an additional 14.9 months. 
Harms 
On average, 0.9% (9 out of 1000) of people treated with MP experienced peripheral nerve damage (polyneuropathies).The evidence was inconclusive whether treatment with RD decreases the risk of developing a polyneuropathy, compared to MP. The estimated risk of polyneuropathies with RD was 0.5%. Treatment with TMP and VMP probably increases the risk of experiencing polyneuropathies compared to MP (moderate certainty). The estimated risk with TMP was 4.0%, and with VMP 79.4%. No VRDc treatment study reported the number of participants with severe polyneuropathies. 
On average, 36.1% (361 out of 1000) of people on MP‐treatment experienced at least one serious adverse event (SAE). VMP probably increases the proportion of participants with SAEs compared to MP to 46.2% (moderate certainty). 
On average, 9.2% (92 out of 1000) of people treated with MP stop the treatment because of adverse events (AEs). Treatment with RD, TMP, and VRDc leads to a much higher proportion of people stopping treatment because of AEs than MP (high certainty). The risk of stopping treatment with RD is 38.5%; with TMP 37.7%, with VRDc 82.1%. Treatment with VMP probably increases the risk of stopping treatment because of AEs compared to MP (9.75%, moderate certainty). 
Quality of life 
Quality of life (QoL) was reported in four studies for seven different treatments and was measured with four different tools. Assessment and reporting differed between studies and could not be meta‐analysed. However, all studies reported an improvement in QoL after anti‐myeloma treatment was started for all assessed treatments. 
