Background: People undergoing chemotherapy often experience febrile neutropenia, characterized by a high temperature combined with a low white blood cell count. Febrile neutropenia is a potentially life‐threatening condition and requires prompt medical intervention. The standard treatment for febrile neutropenia includes supportive care of fluids, electrolytes (any substance that contains free ions that can conduct electricity given either intravenously or orally) and antibiotics given either orally or intravenously.Review question: Whether colony‐stimulating factors (CSFs) (hormones that stimulate the production of white blood cells) added to antibiotics are better than antibiotics alone in the treatment of febrile neutropenia caused by cancer chemotherapy?Literaturesearch date: March 2014 and May 2015 for the economic evaluation. Main findings: We identified 14 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) enrolling a total of 1553 participants. Six trials were funded by industry alone and 3 trials were jointly funded by industry and public sources and only 1 trial was funded by public sources alone. Our study shows that although CSFs do not appear to improve survival, they shorten the amount of time a person spends in hospital and increase their chances that white blood cells will recover to normal levels. It is not clear whether the use of a CSF reduces the number of people who die due to infection. Our study shows that CSFs shorten the time taken for the white blood cells to return to normal levels, recovery from fever and stopping antibiotics. The number of patients suffering from treatment related harms such as blood clots in the veins were similar between patients receiving CSF and antibiotics and antibiotics alone. The number of patients experiencing bone or joint pain or flu‐like symptoms was higher among individuals receiving CSF and antibiotics compared with individuals receiving antibiotics alone. No economic evaluations were identified. Several of the included RCTs identified economic benefits regarding a reduction in overall length of stay attributable to the use of CSF plus antibiotics, however they fell short of undertaking a full economic evaluation. Quality of the evidence: The overall methodological quality of included studies was moderate to low. 