Conservative treatments for whiplash
Whiplash is defined as an acceleration‐deceleration mechanism of energy transfer to the neck. It may result from rear‐end or side‐impact motor vehicle collisions or during diving, among other mishaps. 
Whiplash‐associated disorders (WAD) can be classified by the severity of signs and symptoms from Grade 0 (no complaints or physical signs) to Grade 4 (fracture or dislocation). Whiplash‐associated disorders have been reported in 70 in 100,000 inhabitants in a Canadian province, to 188 to 325 per 100,000 inhabitants in The Netherlands. Conservative treatments (for example, physiotherapy, acupuncture, or a collar) are the most common treatment options for whiplash patients, but the evidence supporting their effectiveness remains conflicting. 
We included 23 studies (2344 participants with WAD Grades 1 or 2), nine of which were new for this update. Overall, the methodological quality was poor and the studies included populations and interventions that were too different to pool. Two studies examined treatments for patients with chronic pain (longer than three months), two looked at subacute pain (four to six weeks), two were unclear (but one was probably chronic), and the rest looked at patients with acute symptoms of less than three weeks. 
In 11 studies, an active treatment approach (treatment strategy including exercises or advice to 'act as usual') was compared to a passive strategy, no treatment or was an additional treatment. Eight studies compared an active intervention with a passive one (the patient received a treatment such as advice to rest and wear a neck collar, an educational video, electrotherapy, manipulation, hot and cold packs, traction, or acupuncture). Eight studies compared an intervention with a placebo or no treatment. In seven studies, two active treatments were compared against each other and in one, a passive intervention was compared to injections. 
Since we were unable to pool any of the studies, we remain unable to either support or refute the effects of conservative treatments for acute, subacute or chronic whiplash‐associated disorders with the current evidence. 
