Treatments for molluscum contagiosum, a common viral skin infection in children
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effect of any treatment on the common viral skin infection molluscum contagiosum. We excluded people with a repressed immune system or sexually transmitted molluscum contagiosum. 
Background 
Molluscum contagiosum in healthy people is a self limiting, relatively harmless viral skin infection. It mainly affects children and adolescents and is rare in adults. It occurs worldwide, but seems much more frequent in geographic areas with warm climates. Molluscum contagiosum usually presents as single or multiple pimples filled with an oily substance. People may seek treatment for social and cosmetic reasons and because of concerns about spreading the disease to others. Treatment is intended to speed up the healing process. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature to July 2016. We included 22 trials (total of 1650 participants). Twenty of the studies evaluated topical treatment, and two studies evaluated treatment taken by mouth (oral). Comparisons included physical therapies, as well as topical and oral treatments. Most studies were set in hospital outpatient or emergency departments, and were performed in North America, the UK, Asia, or South America. Participants were of both sexes and were mainly children or young adults. Follow‐up duration varied from 3 to 28 weeks after randomisation. Only five studies had longer than 3 months' follow‐up. 
Five studies reported commercial funding, three studies obtained medication for free from pharmaceutical companies, 12 studies did not mention the source of funding, one study reported charity funding, and one study reported they had had no financial support. 
Key results 
We found that many common treatments for molluscum, such as physical destruction, have not been adequately evaluated. Some of the included treatments are not part of standard practice. 
We found moderate‐quality evidence that topical 5% imiquimod is probably no more effective than vehicle (i.e. the same cream but without imiquimod) in achieving short‐, medium‐, and long‐term clinical cure. High‐quality (and thus more certain) evidence showed that topical 5% imiquimod is no better than placebo at improving molluscum up to three months after the start of treatment. 
High‐quality evidence showed that 5% imiquimod differed little or not at all in the number of side effects compared to vehicle. However, moderate‐quality evidence suggests that there are probably more application site reactions when using topical 5% imiquimod compared with vehicle. 
