Self‐management education programmes for osteoarthritis
This review shows that in people with osteoarthritis: 
Self‐management education programmes may not improve self‐management skills, osteoarthritis symptoms, function, quality of life and dropout rates but may reduce pain modestly compared with attention control. Active and positive engagement in life was not reported. 
Self‐management education programmes may slightly improve self‐management skills, pain and function but may not improve active and positive engagement in life, osteoarthritis symptoms, quality of life and dropout rates compared with usual care. 
Self‐management education programmes probably do not improve outcomes compared with provision of information alone or compared with other interventions (exercise, physiotherapy, social support or acupuncture). 
What is osteoarthritis and what are self‐management education programmes? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints, such as your knee or hip, or the joints in your hands. The joint cartilage that lines the joint gradually thins, narrowing the joint space. In severe cases, no cartilage remains between the bones, and the bones rub together when the joint is moved, making the joint painful and sometimes unstable. 
Self‐management education programmes are behavioural interventions designed to encourage people with chronic disease to take an active role in the management of their own condition. These programmes aim to improve outcomes for patients by supporting, not replacing, medical care. The content used to educate patients about their condition and to explain how they can best manage their symptoms varies between programmes. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with osteoarthritis who undergo self‐management programmes: 
People who completed a self‐management programme rated their self‐management skills to be 0.4 points better (0.4 points worse to 1.2 points better) on a scale of 1 to 10 (higher score means better self‐management) after 12 months (4% absolute improvement; 4% worse to 12% better). 
‐ People who completed a self‐management programme rated their self‐management skills as 6.2 points on a scale of 1 to 10. 
‐ People who received attention control rated their self‐management skills as 5.8 points on a scale of 1 to 10. 
People who completed a self‐management programme rated their pain to be 0.8 points lower (0.3 to 0.14 points lower) on a scale of 0 to 10 (lower score means less pain) after 12 months (8% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who completed a self‐management programme rated their pain as 5 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
‐ People who received attention control rated their pain as 5.8 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
People who completed a self‐management programme rated their osteoarthritis symptoms to be 0.14 points lower (0.54 points lower to 0.26 points higher) on a scale of 0 to 10 (lower score means fewer symptoms) after 12 months (1% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who completed a self‐management programme rated their symptoms as 4.1 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
‐ People who received attention control rated their symptoms as 4.2 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
People who completed a self‐management programme rated their function to be 0.04 points lower (0.02 points lower to 0.10 points higher) on a scale of 0 to 3 (lower score means better function) after 12 months (4% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who completed a self‐management programme rated their function as 1.25 points on a scale of 0 to 3. 
‐ People who received attention control rated their function as 1.29 points on a scale of 0 to 3. 
People who completed a self‐management programme rated their quality of life to be 0.01 points lower (0.03 points lower to 0.01 points higher) on a scale of 0 to 1 (higher score means better quality of life) after 12 months (1% absolute worsening). 
‐ People who completed a self‐management programme rated their quality of life as 0.56 points on a scale of 0 to 1. 
‐ People who received attention control rated their quality of life as 0.57 points on a scale of 0 to 1. 
One more person out of 100 dropped out of self‐management programmes (1% absolute improvement). 
‐ 13 out of 100 people who received a self‐management programme dropped out.
‐ 12 out of 100 people who received attention control dropped out.
