Treatment to prevent first bleeding from dilated veins in the oesophagus resulting from advanced scarring of the liver 
What was the aim of this Cochrane Review? 
We aimed to find the best available treatment for prevention of first bleeding from oesophageal varices (enlarged veins in the food pipe (oesophagus)) in people with advanced liver scarring (liver cirrhosis, or late stage scarring of the liver with complications). People with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices are at significant risk of bleeding and death. Therefore, treatment is important, but the benefits and harms of different treatments available are currently unclear. The review authors collected and analysed 66 randomised clinical trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with the aim of finding what the best treatment is. During analysis of data, we used standard Cochrane methods, which allow the comparison of only two treatments at a time. We also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time (referred to as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature search 
December 2019
Key messages 
We found that only one of the trials was conducted without flaws, and because of this, there is high to very high uncertainty in the findings. Approximately one in five trial participants with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices who never had bleeding previously and received the standard treatment of beta‐blockers died within five years of treatment. 
The funding source for the research was unclear in 50 trials; commercial organisations funded five trials. There were no concerns regarding the source of funding for the remaining 11 trials. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review looked at adults of any sex, age, and ethnic origin with advanced liver disease due to various causes and oesophageal varices, but never had bleeding from the oesophageal varices. Participants were given different treatments for prevention of first bleeding from oesophageal varices. The authors excluded studies in people who had previous bleeding from the oesophageal varices and those who had had a liver transplant or already received treatment for oesophageal varices previously. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 40 years to 63 years. The treatments included 'non‐selective beta‐blockers' or simply 'beta‐blockers' (drugs that slow the heart and decrease the force of heart pumping resulting in decrease pressure in the blood vessels; they also increase the pressure in the gut blood vessels decreasing the amount of blood reaching the oesophageal veins), endoscopic sclerotherapy (injecting clotting agents into the enlarged veins by looking through a tube inserted through the mouth), variceal band ligation (inserting elastic bands around the widened veins by using a tube inserted through the mouth), and nitrates (medicines that decrease the pressure in the gut blood vessels by widening them). The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death (percentage dead at maximal follow‐up), quality of life, serious and non‐serious side effects, percentage of people who developed bleeding, and development of other complications of advanced liver disease.What were the main results of the review? 
The 66 studies included a relatively small number of participants (6653 people). Sixty studies with 6212 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of the trial ranged from six months to five years in studies that reported the outcomes that we were interested in. The review found the following:– Approximately one in five people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices (without previous bleeding) who receive the beta‐blockers died within five years.– Beta‐blockers, variceal band ligation, sclerotherapy, and beta‐blockers plus nitrates all may result in fewer deaths than no treatment.– Variceal band ligation may result in a higher number of serious side effects than beta‐blockers.– Sclerotherapy, beta‐blockers plus nitrates, and beta‐blockers plus variceal band ligation may result in more side effects (when serious and non‐serious adverse events were put together) than beta‐blockers.– Beta‐blockers plus variceal band ligation may result in fewer people who develop bleeding than beta‐blockers alone based on a single small trial.– Nitrates alone may result in more people who develop bleeding than beta‐blockers alone.– The evidence indicates considerable uncertainty about the effect of the interventions in the remaining comparisons.– None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life. 
What are our conclusions? 
Beta‐blockers, variceal band ligation, sclerotherapy, and beta‐blockers plus nitrates may decrease the death rate compared to no treatment in people with high‐risk oesophageal varices in people with cirrhosis and no history of bleeding. Variceal band ligation may result in a higher number of serious side effects than beta‐blockers. The evidence indicates considerable uncertainty about the effect of beta‐blockers versus variceal band ligation on variceal bleeding. The evidence also indicates considerable uncertainty about the effect of the interventions in most of the remaining comparisons. Future well designed trials are needed to find out the best treatment to prevent first bleeding from people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices. 
