Tracheal suction at birth in non‐vigorous neonates born through meconium‐stained amniotic fluid 
Review question 
To determine the efficacy of clearing the trachea (windpipe) of meconium by introducing a tube into the windpipe (intubation), and suction at birth in babies who are born through the meconium‐stained amniotic fluid and are depressed (identified by not breathing or limp or low heart rate) at birth. 
Background 
Meconium is a thick green tar‐like substance, that lines a baby's intestines during pregnancy. Meconium contains various intestinal enzymes and substances (blood, skin cells, etc.) ingested by the foetus. Meconium is usually first passed within 24 hours after birth. However, in certain circumstances when blood or oxygen supply to the foetus is compromised or the pregnancy extends beyond the normal period of 40 weeks, meconium passage may occur before birth. Once passed, meconium may be breathed (aspirated) in from amniotic fluid into the airways either before birth or with the first few breaths after birth. This can cause airway obstruction and inflammation of lung tissue from toxins (chemical pneumonia). Nearly 10% to 25% of births are complicated by meconium passage before birth and of these, 5% to 12% of neonates develop meconium aspiration syndrome (MAS). MAS can present with varying degrees of severity, from mild distress to life‐threatening respiratory failure. One approach to prevent MAS is to identify babies who are depressed at birth, and clear the meconium from the airway before the baby takes their first breath. In this process, an endotracheal tube is inserted into the upper trachea and pulled out while the trachea is being suctioned. However, this may not prevent MAS if the baby has already aspirated meconium before being born. In addition, most of the babies who are candidates for this intervention need prompt resuscitation, and conducting tracheal suction has the potential to cause harm by delaying the initiation of artificial breaths.  
