Treatments for accidental damage during surgery to the nerves supplying sensation to the tongue, lower lip and chin 
Review question 
The main question addressed by this review is how effective are different treatments and what are the best timings for these treatments following accidental damage during surgery to the nerves that supply sensation to the tongue, lower lip and chin. 
Background 
The nerves (alveolar and lingual) supplying sensation to the tongue, lower lip and chin, may be injured as a result of surgical treatments to the mouth and face, including surgery to remove lower wisdom teeth. The vast majority (90%) of these injuries are temporary and get better within eight weeks. However if they last for longer than six months they are considered to be permanent. Damage to these nerves can lead to altered sensation in the region of the lower lip and chin, or tongue or both. Furthermore, damage to the nerve supplying the tongue may lead to altered taste perception. These injuries can affect people's quality of life leading to emotional problems, problems with socialising and disabilities. Accidental injury after surgery can also give rise to legal action. 
There are many interventions or treatments available, surgical and non‐surgical, that may enhance recovery, including improving sensation. They can be grouped as. 
1. Surgical – a variety of procedures. 2. Laser treatment – low‐level laser treatment has been used to treat partial loss of sensation. 3. Medical – treatment with drugs including antiepileptics, antidepressants and painkillers. 4. Counselling – including cognitive behavioural and relaxation therapy, changing behaviour and hypnosis. 
Study characteristics 
The Cochrane Oral Health Group carried out this review, and the evidence is current as of 9 October 2013. There are two studies included, both published in 1996, which compared low‐level laser treatment to placebo or fake treatment for partial loss of sensation following surgery to the lower jaw. There were 15 participants in one study and 16 in the other, their ages ranging from 17 to 55 years. All had suffered accidental damage to nerves of the lower jaw and tongue causing some loss of sensation following surgery. 
