Corticosteroids for the management of cancer‐related breathlessness in adults with cancer 
Background 
Breathlessness (dyspnoea) is a common symptom in advanced cancer. Breathlessness may be due to a combination of different causes including lung cancer, metastatic disease elsewhere in the body (for example, cancer in the abdomen pushing up the diaphragm), or cancer‐related conditions affecting the nerves or muscles associated with breathing. Pain and psychological conditions (such as fear and anxiety) or pre‐existing lung disease may make symptoms worse. People with cancer report breathlessness is associated with higher psychological distress and poorer quality of life. Medicines can be used to treat breathlessness in this population, and one common medicine used is corticosteroids. In this review, we evaluated how effective systemic corticosteroids are in treating cancer‐related breathlessness in adults, compared to any control. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature in January 2018. We found two studies, enrolling 157 participants in total, that tested the effect of systemic corticosteroids on breathlessness in adults with cancer, compared to a dummy medicine (placebo). One study lasted seven days, and the other study lasted 15 days. Both studies compared a corticosteroid (oral (by mouth) dexamethasone) to a dummy medicine with no properties to reduce breathlessness, which we included in our analyses. 
We were interested in the primary outcomes of participant‐reported breathlessness intensity, quality and burden. We were also interested in the secondary outcomes of serious side effects, participant satisfaction with treatment and participant withdrawal from trial. 
Key results 
We could not complete many of our planned analyses due to the small number of studies, the different medicines and comparisons, and outcomes that the studies reported. We did conduct one analysis of 114 participants to assess change in breathlessness intensity/relief from baseline. We found that corticosteroids had no beneficial effect compared to a dummy medicine on reducing breathlessness intensity in people with cancer. 
We found that the frequency of side effects was similar between groups, and corticosteroids were generally well tolerated. None of the studies measured participant satisfaction with treatment. Participant withdrawals were 15% and 36% in the two studies. 
