Uric acid lowering therapies for preventing or delaying the progression of chronic kidney disease 
What is the issue? 
There is some evidence to suggest that patients with higher uric acid levels in the blood may be more at risk for either developing kidney damage or for kidney damage that they already have getting worse. This study is designed to answer the question "if we reduce uric acid levels in the blood with specific treatments, will that protect the patient from worsening kidney damage or from developing kidney damage in the first place?" 
Long‐term damage to the kidney (chronic kidney disease) is an increasing problem across the world. With worse damage to the kidney, there are increasing risks of heart disease and death, as well as the increased need for dialysis treatment when kidneys finally fail. There is a great deal of research being performed aimed at reducing both the occurrence of kidney damage and the gradual worsening of damage that is present. This is aimed at reducing death, heart disease, and the need for dialysis treatment. 
Uric acid, or urate, is an end product of the breakdown of DNA and is present in everyone. Increasing levels of urate are thought to be potentially damaging to the heart and blood vessels and possibly also the kidney. In kidney patients, it is well known that as kidney damage worsens, the level of urate in the blood tends to rise. There is increasing suspicion that this rise in urate levels in kidney patients is not just the result of kidney damage but may be actually making the situation worse. 
What did we do? 
We collected all the data from studies that consider patients treated with urate lowering medications for more than 3 months and that report data on death, blood pressure and kidney function in their outcomes. 
Twelve studies comprising 1187 participants were included in the review. Duration of the studies was between four months and two years. The types of patients included varied across the studies including diabetes, heart failure, and chronic kidney disease. 
What did we find? 
The quality of the included studies was difficult to grade due to a lack of information. These are not, therefore, high quality studies. 
We found a small amount of evidence that reducing uric acid levels may slow down damage to kidneys but no evidence that it improves blood pressure or any of the other cardiovascular markers that were investigated. The number of patients requiring dialysis treatment for complete kidney failure appears unchanged. Two measures of kidney failure (serum creatinine and glomerular filtration rate) were improved at six and 12 months but not at two years. The amount of protein in the urine was also reduced by treatment. We found no clear effect on death, blood pressure, rates of hospitalisation, or side effects of treatment. 
Conclusions 
There is limited data which suggests urate lowering therapy may slow down damage to the kidneys but the conclusion is very uncertain. Benefits were not observed at all time points and study quality was generally low. Larger studies are required to study the effect of uric acid lowering therapy on CKD progression. 
