Protease‐modulating matrix treatments for healing venous leg ulcers
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of treatments designed to lower the levels of protease in venous leg ulcers. Protease is an enzyme, a chemical produced by the body. High levels of protease in a wound are thought to slow down wound healing. We wanted to find out if treatments that remove protease from wounds could help venous leg ulcers to heal more quickly, and if these treatments were harmful in any way. 
Background 
Venous leg ulcers are open skin wounds on the lower leg that can last weeks, months or even years. Leg ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and may affect mobility and quality of life. In 2012 in the UK, it cost about GBP 1700 per year to treat each person with an open venous leg ulcer. 
The usual treatment for venous leg ulcers is compression therapy (for example, compression bandages), but even this does not work for everyone (about a third of people still have wounds that have not healed after six months). Therefore, we need to try additional treatments, and various dressings have been used alongside compression therapy. One of these is a 'protease‐modulating matrix' (PMM) type of dressing. Research suggests that wounds are slow to heal when there are high levels of a substance called 'protease'. The PMM dressing is designed to remove these proteases from wound fluid, and this is expected to help the wound heal. 
In this study, we investigated whether there is any evidence that PMM dressings heal leg ulcers more quickly than other types of dressings. 
Study characteristics 
In September 2016 we searched for as many relevant studies as we could find that had a reliable design (randomised controlled trials) and had compared PMM treatments with other treatments for venous leg ulcers. We found 12 studies involving a total of 784 people. Ten studies gave results we could use and all treatments were dressings. All these studies gave all the participants compression therapy as well as the dressings. Most of the people in the trials had wounds that were not getting better or had been there a long time. 
Key results 
Findings from four trials are unclear as to whether there is a benefit of PMM dressings on venous ulcer healing compared with other dressings. Five trials reported on wound side effects and their results are unclear as to whether there is a difference in rates of side effects between PMM dressings and other dressings. It is also unclear whether PMM dressings result in decreases in the amount of saline used and the time taken during dressing changes, and whether there is an effect on total costs. 
Certainty of the evidence  Overall, the certainty of the evidence was judged to be low: most studies we found were small and could have been better conducted, so it was difficult to be sure how meaningful the results were. The next step would be to do more research of better quality to see whether PMM dressings do heal venous ulcers more quickly than other dressings. 
