Fetal fibronectin testing for reducing the risk of preterm birth
What is the issue? 
To assess the effectiveness of management of pregnant women based on a knowledge of fetal fibronectin test results for preventing preterm birth, compared with not having that knowledge. Fetal fibronectin (FFN) acts as a ‘glue’ between the pregnancy and the uterus. Normally very low levels of FFN can be found in secretions of the vagina and cervix. Raised levels at or after 22 weeks have been associated with an increased risk of spontaneous preterm birth. 
Why is this important? 
Preterm birth before 37 weeks is the main cause of sickness and death for newborn infants. Most women who give birth preterm have preterm labor symptoms such as contractions but many of the women with symptoms go on to deliver at term (37 weeks or more). Fetal fibronectin (FFN) is a test that can identify the women with symptoms of preterm labor who are most at risk for preterm birth. The level of FFN is measured in secretions from the vagina or cervix. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found six randomised controlled studies involving 546 women who were pregnant with one baby and were showing signs of preterm labor at between 23 to 34 weeks' gestation. We graded the following evidence as mainly low quality because of the low number of women in the studies and a wide variation in findings. We found that the number of births before 37 weeks may be slightly reduced when women and their doctors know the results of the FFN test (20.7% versus 29.2%; 5 trials; 434 women). However, knowledge of FFN results may make little or no difference for the other outcomes with available data, including: maternal hospitalization (5 trials; 441 women); use of uterine relaxants (tocolysis) to try to prevent labor; earlier preterm births; women’s gestational age at delivery; babies with a birthweight less than 2500 g; newborn deaths; the number of babies with respiratory distress syndrome; giving steroids to mature the unborn babies’ lungs; and number of days in a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU). 
