Cognitive‐behavioural treatment for neck pain
Background 
Neck pain (NP) is defined as pain, muscle tension, or stiffness localized in the neck and may originate from many structures, including the spine or soft tissues. Risk factors include age, gender, a history of pain, poor posture, repetitive strain, and social and psychological factors. 
NP is experienced by people of all ages and both genders and is an important cause of medical expenses, work absenteeism, and disability. Current management of NP includes a range of different treatments such as reassurance, education, promotion of a timely return to normal activities, appropriate use of painkillers, and exercises. 
There remains uncertainty about the efficacy of cognitive‐behavioural therapy (CBT) for these patients. CBT is a psychological technique that encompasses a wide set of interventions conducted by health professionals. It includes cognitive and behavioural modifications of specific activities to reduce the impact of pain as well as physical and psychosocial disability and to overcome dangerous barriers to physical and psychosocial recovery. 
Review Question 
We therefore reviewed the evidence about the effect of CBT on pain, disability, psychological factors, and quality of life among patients with subacute and chronic NP. Specifically, we compared CBT versus no treatment, CBT versus other types of interventions, and CBT in addition to another intervention (e.g. physiotherapy) versus the other intervention alone. 
Study Characteristics 
We examined the research published up to November 2014. We included 10 randomised trials (836 participants). Two studies included subjects with subacute NP (337 participants), while the other eight studies included participants with chronic NP (499 participants). CBTwas compared to no treatment (225 participants) or to other types of treatments (506 participants), or combined with another intervention (e.g. physiotherapy) and compared to the other intervention alone (200 participants). The interventions were carried out at primary and secondary health care centres. 
Key Results 
With regard to chronic NP, CBT was statistically significantly better than no treatment at improving pain, disability, and quality of life, but these effects could not be considered clinically meaningful. No differences between CBT and other types of interventions (e.g. medication, education, physiotherapy, manual therapy, and exercises) were found in terms of pain and disability; there was moderate quality evidence that CBT was better than other interventions in improving fear of movement. Also, there was very low quality evidence that CBT added to another intervention was no better at improving pain and disability than the other intervention alone . 
