Overview of Cochrane Reviews of interventions used during surgery for preventing surgical site infection 
What is the aim of this overview of reviews? 
To identify and summarise all evidence from Cochrane Reviews on interventions to prevent surgical site infections (SSIs) that are delivered while surgery is taking place (during the intraoperative period). 
Key messages 
We cannot be certain about the effectiveness in preventing SSI of the majority of intraoperative interventions, as we judged the certainty of the evidence to be generally low or very low. In some circumstances (listed below), antibiotics were effective for the prevention of SSI. There is no high‐ or moderate‐certainty evidence for the relative effects of intraoperative interventions on mortality, and no data at all for quality of life or costs. For these reasons, we cannot be certain whether these antibiotics, which are effective at preventing SSI, have any negative effects on mortality or quality of life. Larger trials with appropriate methods are needed to measure the outcomes that are important to both patients and health professionals. 
What was studied in the overview? 
If bacteria get into a surgical cut during surgery, this can result in a wound infection commonly called an SSI. SSIs are one of the most common forms of healthcare‐associated infections, with around 1 in 20 surgical patients developing an SSI in hospital. SSIs can also develop after people have left hospital. SSIs can result in delayed wound healing, increased hospital stays, increased use of antibiotics, unnecessary pain and, in extreme cases, death. Their prevention is therefore a key aim for health services. Many interventions are used to reduce the risk of SSI in people having surgery. These interventions can be delivered at three stages: before, during and after the operation. It is therefore important to identify interventions that can reduce the incidence of SSIs. This overview focuses only on interventions delivered during surgery. 
