What are the benefits and risks of using a tourniquet in knee replacement surgery?
Why is this question important? 
Knee replacement is a common operation that involves replacing a damaged, worn, or diseased knee with an artificial joint made of metal and plastic. 
Most surgeons prefer to carry out knee replacement surgery with the aid of a tourniquet ‐ a tight band placed around the thigh that restricts blood flow to the knee. 
Potential benefits of using a tourniquet include limiting blood loss during surgery and making it easier to conduct the operation. However, a tourniquet may increase the risk of pain and complications for patients after surgery. We reviewed evidence from research studies to find out about the benefits and risks of using a tourniquet in knee replacement surgery. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
First, we searched for relevant, robust studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results and summarised the evidence from all studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. To do this, we considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study size, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate, or high certainty. 
What did we find? 
We found 41 studies that involved 2819 people (944 men and 1777 women) who were randomly assigned to have surgery with a tourniquet, or surgery without. This type of study, known as a randomised controlled trial, provides the most robust evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Studies were conducted in hospitals in Australia, Asia, Europe, and the USA. Each study involved between 20 and 166 people who were between 58 and 84 years of age. They were followed for between one day and two years after surgery. 
Five studies were publicly funded, and one study received funding from a medical equipment manufacturing company. The other 35 studies did not receive specific funding or did not state who funded them. 
The studies provided low to moderate evidence that:
‐ pain on the first day after surgery is probably worse with a tourniquet. On average, on a scale of 0 to 10 (higher scores = worse pain), people operated on with a tourniquet rated their pain as 5.81. People operated on without a tourniquet rated their pain as 4.56 (average difference: 1.25 points); 
‐ knee function one year after surgery is probably similar with or without a tourniquet. On average, on a scale of 0 to 100 (higher scores = better functioning), people operated on with a tourniquet rated their knee function as 89.74. People operated on without a tourniquet rated their knee function as 90.03 (average difference: 0.29 points); 
