What are the benefits and risks of healthcare workers using antimicrobial mouthwashes or nasal sprays to protect themselves when they treat people with COVID‐19? 
Why is this question important? 
COVID‐19 is an infectious disease caused by the SARS‐CoV‐2 virus. Most people infected with COVID‐19 develop a mild to moderate respiratory illness, and some may have no symptoms (asymptomatic infection). Others experience severe symptoms and need specialist treatment and intensive care. 
COVID‐19 spreads from person to person primarily through droplets that are produced when an infected person coughs, sneezes or talks. A person can also become infected by touching a surface or object that has viral droplets on it, and then touching their own mouth or nose. 
Healthcare workers who treat people with COVID‐19 are at risk of becoming infected themselves. Self‐administered use of an antimicrobial mouthwash (to rinse the mouth) or nasal spray (sprayed into the nose) might help healthcare workers to protect themselves against infection. Antimicrobial mouthwashes and nasal sprays are liquids that kill or stop the growth of micro‐organisms such as viruses or bacteria. 
As with any medical treatment, antimicrobial mouthwashes and nasal sprays have potential risks as well as benefits. It is possible that using mouthwashes or nasal sprays could cause a variety of unwanted (adverse) effects, including irritation, allergic reactions or loss of smell. They may also remove micro‐organisms from the mouth or nose that are useful for protecting the body against infection. 
To assess the benefits and risks of self‐administered antimicrobial mouthwashes and nasal sprays for healthcare workers treating patients with COVID‐19, we set out to review the research evidence. 
How did we search for evidence? 
Our team of researchers searched the medical literature for studies that compared the effects of any antimicrobial mouthwash or nasal spray used by healthcare workers against no treatment, water or a salt solution. 
What did we find? 
We found no completed studies to include in this review.
We found three studies currently in progress that aim to enrol nearly 700 participants. These studies are investigating the effects of povidone iodine (as a mouthwash and nasal spray), nitric oxide (as a mouthwash and nasal spray) and GLS‐1200 nasal spray (though the content of this spray is unclear, and it may not turn out to include an antimicrobial agent). 
Two of the studies are randomised controlled trials (clinical, real‐life studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups). This type of study provides the most robust evidence about the effects of a treatment. The third study is a non‐randomised clinical study. 
Only one of the ongoing studies specifically states that it will investigate adverse events. It is not clear whether this will include changes in the sense of smell or to the mix of micro‐organisms that are present in the mouth or nose, and the consequences of these changes. 
