Medication for the treatment of depression in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a term that mainly describes two lung conditions: chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The main symptoms of COPD include shortness of breath, persistent cough, wheezing, and/or frequent chest infections. There is no cure for COPD, but treatment can help slow the disease progress and relieve symptoms. Depression is very common in patients with COPD, but is often untreated. Studies show that untreated depression in patients with COPD can worsen quality of life, increase COPD exacerbations and hospital admissions, and make following a COPD treatment plan difficult. Treatment for depression can include antidepressant medication, psychological therapy, or both. However, evidence‐based recommendations regarding antidepressant medication use specifically for patients with COPD are not currently available. 
Why is this review important? 
There is currently no clear overview of existing evidence showing whether antidepressants can effectively and safely reduce depressive symptoms in patients with COPD, therefore it was important to assess the existing experimental studies. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Healthcare professionals, people with COPD and depression, researchers, and policymakers will be interested in the findings of this review. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Our main aim was to assess whether pharmacological treatment (e.g. antidepressants) could effectively and safely treat COPD‐related depression. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
This review included experimental studies called randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to a treatment group based on a random method) that compared the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions (antidepressants) to placebo (inactive treatment in the same form as the active treatment, e.g. a pill). Study participants were adults diagnosed with COPD and depression. 
