Inhaled versus systemic corticosteroids for preventing chronic lung disease in ventilated very low birth weight preterm neonates 
Review question 
The primary objective was to compare the effectiveness of inhaled versus systemic corticosteroids started within the first week of life in preventing death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia (defined as requirement of supplemental oxygen at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age) in infants on invasive mechanical ventilation with birth weight ≤ 1500 g or gestational age ≤ 32 weeks. 
Background 
Preterm babies who require breathing support often develop bronchopulmonary dysplasia. It is thought that inflammation in the lungs may be part of the cause. Corticosteroid drugs when given orally or through a vein reduces this inflammation, but the use of corticosteroids is associated with serious side effects. Corticosteroids use has been associated with cerebral palsy (motor problem) and developmental delay. It is possible that inhaling steroids, so that the drug directly reaches the lung, may reduce the adverse effects. 
Study characteristics 
The review looked at trials that compared preterm babies who received steroids by inhalation to those who received steroids systemically (through a vein or orally) while they were receiving mechanical ventilation. We included two trials that involved 294 infants. One study included 278 infants and the other study included 16 infants. No new studies were included for the 2017 update. 
Both studies received grant support and the industry provided aero chambers and metered dose inhalers of budesonide and placebo for the larger study. No conflict of interest was identified. 
Key results 
There was no evidence that inhaling steroids compared to systemic steroids prevented the primary outcome of death or bronchopulmonary dysplasia. The number of days the baby needed mechanical ventilation support or additional oxygen were increased in infants who received inhaled steroids versus infants who received systemic steroids. These outcomes were reported in both the trials. The rate of patent ductus arteriosus (failure for the ductus arteriosus, an arterial shunt in fetal life, to close after birth) was increased in the group receiving inhaled steroids. There was a lower incidence of high blood sugars in the inhaled steroid group compared with the systemic steroid group. These secondary outcomes were reported in only one trial (the larger trial). In a sub‐sample of 52 children at age 7 years there were no differences in long‐term follow‐up outcomes between the inhaled and the systemic steroid groups. in an even smaller sample of 48 infants the outcome of 'ever diagnosed as asthmatic by seven years of age' was significantly lower in the inhaled steroid group compared with the systemic steroid group. 
