Arthrographic distension for adhesive capsulitis (frozen shoulder)
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of arthrographic distension for adhesive capsulitis. In people with adhesive capsulitis; 
Undergoing distension with steroid and saline solution compared to placebo (fake distension);
‐ May improve pain at three weeks.  ‐ May improve disability at three, six and 12 weeks. 
Undergoing distension with steroid and saline solution compared to ordinary injection with steroid; 
‐ May not lead to any difference in pain and disability.
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. Possible minor side effects may include pain or claustrophobia at the time of the procedure and fluid noises in the shoulder.   What is adhesive capsulitis and what is arthrographic distension? 
Another name for adhesive capsulitis is "frozen shoulder" or "painful stiff shoulder". In fact, it is so painful and stiff, it becomes difficult to move your shoulder in a normal way. Sometimes the loss of movement to your shoulder makes it feel like it is completely frozen. It is thought to be caused by scar‐like tissue (adhesions) forming in the shoulder joint. Arthrographic distension is a procedure where fluid is injected into the shoulder joint to break up the adhesions that might be restricting the shoulder's movement and causing disability. Depending on the treatment, the fluid might contain a saline solution or steroids. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with adhesive capsulitis who have arthrographic distension: 
Pain: at three weeks after treatment, people's pain improved by 2 points on a scale of 0‐10. This could be as low as 1.1 or as high as 3.5 points on a scale of 1‐10. 
Disability: One study found that at three weeks after treatment, people's disability was improved by 11 points on a scale of 0‐100, possibly as few as 4 or as many as 11 points on a scale of 0‐100. Another study found disability was improved by 17 points. This improvement could possibly be as low as 6 or as many as 28 points on a scale of 0‐100. 
At six weeks after treatment, people's disability was improved by 46 points on a scale of 0‐500. This improvement could possibly be as little as 20 points or as many as 80 points on a scale of 0‐500. 
At 12 weeks after treatment, people's disability was improved by 54 points on a scale of 0‐500. This improvement could be as little as 15 points or as many as 95 points on a scale of 0‐500. 
