Topical (applied to the skin) phenytoin for treating pressure ulcers   
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of phenytoin (a medication used orally to treat epilepsy) when used as a cream or in a dressing applied directly to pressure ulcers. We wanted to find out if phenytoin affected ulcer healing, and if it had any harmful side effects. 
Background 
Pressure ulcers (also known as bed sores, pressure sores and decubitus ulcers) are areas of skin and underlying tissue that have been damaged by prolonged pressure and/or exposure to shear forces (e.g. the forces exerted on the skin when someone is pulled into a more upright position in a bed or chair). People at risk of developing pressure ulcers include those with spinal cord injuries, and those who are immobile or who have limited mobility ‐ such as elderly people and people who lie in bed for long periods due to short‐term or long‐term medical conditions. Pressure ulcers frequently take a long time to heal. People with pressure ulcers often suffer extended periods of pain and treatment that make it difficult to carry out their basic daily activities; this has an impact on their quality of life and can lead to additional costs for their health care. 
Oral phenytoin is a medicine that is used to control epileptic seizures. It has been suggested that topical (applied directly to the skin) phenytoin may help in the healing of pressure ulcers, as it has been used topically to heal and reduce pain and swelling (inflammation) in a range of wounds, including those resulting from traumatic injury, other types of ulcers, and burns. A topical medication can be applied in the form of a cream, a lotion, or a medication‐impregnated dressing. 
Study characteristics 
In September 2016 we searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared topical phenytoin against other treatments for treating pressure ulcers. We found three small RCTs that included a total of 148 people with pressure ulcers. The average age of participants in two studies was 45 years and 75 years in one study. Twenty‐one per cent of participants had grade I ulcers (the least severe type, with swollen but unbroken skin) and 79% had grade II ulcers (slightly more severe). No one had grade III or IV ulcers (the most severe types). The trials compared topical phenytoin with three other treatments for pressure ulcers: hydrocolloid dressings, triple antibiotic ointment, and simple dressings. The results of one study suggested that hydrocolloid dressings may slightly improve ulcer healing compared to topical phenytoin. However, we are uncertain whether topical phenytoin improves ulcer healing compared to simple dressings. The study which compared topical phenytoin with triple antibiotic ointment did not report any outcomes of interest to this review. 
Quality of the evidence 
It is uncertain whether topical phenytoin improves ulcer healing for patients with grade I and II pressure ulcers. No adverse events were reported from three small trials and minimal pain was reported in one trial. The trials did not report on some other measurements that we were interested in, such as cost of treatment and quality of life. Two RCTs had a high risk of bias overall, which might have affected the results, and another RCT did not report sufficient details about how it was conducted. Further rigorous, adequately powered RCTs are needed to find whether topical phenytoin is a helpful medication for treating pressure ulcers. 
This plain language summary is up to date as of September 2016.
