Methods of emergency contraception
Review question 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of different methods of emergency contraception to prevent pregnancy following unprotected intercourse. 
Background 
Emergency contraception (EC) is using a drug or copper intrauterine device (Cu‐IUD) to prevent pregnancy shortly after unprotected intercourse. Several interventions are available for EC. Information on the comparative effectiveness, safety and convenience of these methods is crucial for reproductive healthcare providers and the women they serve. Researchers in Cochrane collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Study characteristics 
We searched 10 English‐language and three Chinese‐language databases for published studies in any language, in February 2017. We also searched grey literature databases and websites and contacted experts and authors for eligible studies. Studies had to report information on interventions to prevent pregnancy after a single act of unprotected intercourse. We included 115 randomized controlled trials with 60,479 women in this review. Ninety‐two trials were conducted in China. The evidence is up‐to‐date to February 2017. 
Key results 
The studies compared 25 different interventions of different types of emergency contraception. The studies showed the following. 
Levonorgestrel and mifepristone were more effective than Yuzpe regimen (estradiol‐levonorgestrel combination). Our findings suggest that if 29 women per 1000 become pregnant with Yuzpe, between 11 and 24 women per 1000 will do so with the levonorgestrel, and that if 25 women per 1000 become pregnant with Yuzpe, between one and 10 women per 1000 will do so with mifepristone. 
Mid‐dose mifepristone (25 mg to 50 mg) was probably more effective than levonorgestrel. Low‐dose mifepristone (less than 25 mg) was probably less effective than mid‐dose mifepristone, but both were more effective than levonorgestrel (two doses of 0.75 mg). Ulipristal acetate (UPA) was also more effective than levonorgestrel. 
