Nitric oxide donors for cervical ripening and induction of labour
What is the issue? 
Sometimes it is necessary to bring on labour artificially in the third trimester because of safety concerns for the mother or her baby. Most commonly used cervical ripening or induction agents also cause uterine activity or contraction, which requires close monitoring of mother and baby within a hospital environment. 
Why is this important? 
Nitric oxide (NO) donor agents such as isosorbide mononitrate, Isosorbide dinitrate, nitroglycerin and sodium nitroprusside are thought to bring on ripening of the cervix (neck of the womb) without producing contractions and could be used in an outpatient setting. There are increasing data to support their use for this purpose. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 15th August 2016 and identified a further 13 studies. The review now includes a total of 23 studies involving 4777 women. The five main primary outcomes (after the administration of NO donors) included: vaginal delivery not achieved within 24 hours; uterine hyperstimulation with changes in the fetal heart rate; caesarean section; serious neonatal morbidity/perinatal death; and serious maternal morbidity or death. The evidence for the five primary outcomes was mainly found to be of low quality. There was no evidence of a difference for any of the primary outcomes analysed. There was evidence from four trials to suggest that NO donors were superior to placebo in bringing on ripening of the cervix. Women who received NO donors were also more likely to experience side effects such as headache, nausea or vomiting. 
What does this mean? 
NO donor leads to little or no difference on the majority of labour process and delivery outcomes. However, there was some evidence to suggest that it probably helps in causing the cervix to be more favourable at 12 to 24 hours after administration. Additional studies are needed to see the true impact of NO donors in bringing on induction of labour and its effect on caesarean section rates. 
