Perioperative local anaesthesia for reducing pain following septal surgery
Review question 
Does local anaesthesia at the time of the operation (perioperative) reduce pain after surgery to the nasal septum and are there any adverse effects? 
Background 
Septal surgery is used to treat nasal obstruction due to deviation of the nasal septum. Local anaesthesia is used to decrease pain after the operation and there are several types (e.g. local injection, addition of local anaesthesia to nasal packing, if this is being used to manage bleeding after the operation, and regional nerve block). Most surgeons agree on the use of local anaesthesia, but the choice of which type to use depends on the surgeon's preference. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2018. We included seven studies, recruiting 493 patients. The participants were adults having septoplasty in all of the included studies and the percentage of females ranged from 20.7% to 58.3%. Two studies, recruiting 142 participants, assessed local anaesthetic injection. Four studies, recruiting 301 participants, used nasal packing postoperatively and assessed the addition of a local anaesthetic to the nasal pack. One study, recruiting 50 participants, assessed a regional nerve block. No studies were funded by the anaesthetic drug manufacturer. 
Key results 
Local anaesthetic injection compared to no treatment/placebo 
The main outcome we looked at was the effect on reducing pain at 12, 24 and 48 hours postoperatively. Two studies assessed local injection of anaesthesia, but neither reported on pain at these times. It is unclear whether local injection increased postoperative vomiting. Neither study reported uncontrollable postoperative bleeding. 
Local anaesthetic application via nasal packing compared to no packing/packing with placebo 
Four studies that used nasal packing after the operation assessed the addition of a local anaesthetic to the pack compared to packing with a placebo added. Four of these studies reported pain at 12 or 24 hours (or both) postoperatively. Local anaesthetic added to nasal packing reduced pain by 17.0 points on a 100‐point scale at 12 hours postoperatively and by 7.5 points at 24 hours postoperatively. These studies did not report on pain at 48 hours postoperatively. Local anaesthetic application by nasal packing decreased the need for additional analgesia (painkillers) postoperatively. No studies reported postoperative vomiting or uncontrollable postoperative bleeding. 
No studies evaluated local anaesthetic application via nasal packing compared to no packing. 
Regional nerve block compared to no treatment/placebo 
One study compared a regional nerve block with no treatment, but this study did not report postoperative pain or any of our other outcomes. 
Quality of the evidence 
We graded the quality of evidence for the use of local anaesthetic injection as low, which means that further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. We downgraded the quality of the evidence because of the small number of patients and events. We graded the quality of evidence for the use of local anaesthetic applied to nasal packing as low at 12 hours postoperatively and very low at 48 hours. We downgraded the quality of the evidence because of the poor conduct of the studies and because the results were not similar across studies. We did not grade the quality of evidence for the use of regional nerve block because none of our review outcomes were reported by the one study looking at this. 
Conclusion 
The addition of local anaesthesia to nasal packs (if these are being used) following septal surgery may reduce postoperative pain within the first 12 hours postoperatively compared to nasal packing with a placebo added. However, our review revealed a lack of evidence on which to base comparisons of the various types of local anaesthesia. This review should prompt further research comparing local anaesthesia by injection, as an addition to nasal packing and as a regional nerve block following septal surgery. 
