Nebulisers for giving medication in cystic fibrosis
Nebulisers change a liquid medication into a mist so it can be breathed in. There are different types of nebuliser systems and no review has yet considered whether any nebuliser is better than another. 
1. Conventional nebuliser systems ‐ a machine sucks air in and pushes it out at high speed; a tube attaches the machine to a chamber holding the medication where the air breaks it up into a mist. The mist of medication is delivered constantly. 
2. Adaptive aerosol delivery nebuliser systems ‐ use conventional technology as described above, but also monitor breathing and deliver the mist of medication only while the person is breathing in. 
3. Adaptive aerosol delivery nebuliser systems with vibrating mesh technology ‐ monitor breathing and deliver the mist of medication only while the person is breathing in and use vibrating mesh technology, as described below, to change the liquid medication into a mist. 
4. Vibrating mesh technology nebuliser systems ‐ move the liquid medication through a metal mesh to break up the liquid into a mist where each drop is a similar size; they deliver the mist of medication constantly. 
5. Ultrasonic nebuliser systems ‐ use a crystal to vibrate the liquid medication at a high‐frequency to break up the liquid medication into a mist; they deliver the mist of medication constantly. 
We included 20 studies (1936 participants) in this review which compared the delivery of tobramycin, colistin, dornase alfa, hypertonic sodium chloride and other nebulised medications through the different types of nebuliser. Some conventional nebuliser systems have faster air flows and smaller medication droplets. These systems decrease treatment time and deliver more medication into the lung than other conventional nebulisers which have slower air flows and larger medication droplets. Nebulisers using newer technologies, e.g. adaptive aerosol delivery or vibrating mesh technology, deliver the medication faster and may deliver more of the medication into the lung. These systems appear safe when used with the correct amount of medication, which may be different to that used in a conventional nebuliser system. Some studies suggest that people with cystic fibrosis may prefer these newer systems and may take more of their medication when using them. More research is needed into what dose of medication is needed and how these newer nebuliser technologies affect quality of life, burden of treatment, additional treatment needed and treatment costs. 
