Oxycodone for cancer‐related pain in adults
Background 
Many people with cancer experience moderate to severe pain that requires treatment with strong painkillers that are classified as opioids. 
Oxycodone and morphine are examples of these opioids that are used for the relief of cancer pain. However, strong painkillers are not effective for pain in all people, neither are they well tolerated by all people. The aim of this review was to assess whether oxycodone is associated with better pain relief and fewer side effects than other strong painkillers for adults with cancer pain. 
Study characteristics 
For this update, in November 2021, we found 19 additional relevant studies. In total, we included 42 studies with 4485 participants. These studies compared the painkilling ability (benefit) and side effects (harms) of different types of oxycodone to each other or to other strong painkillers. 
Key results 
In general, the studies showed no difference between oxycodone taken every 4‐6 (immediate‐release) or every 12 (controlled‐release) hours. In general, the studies also showed no difference between oxycodone and other strong pain killers such as morphine. 
All the strong painkillers examined in the studies also have a number of unwanted effects, such as vomiting, constipation, and drowsiness. Overall, these do not differ between oxycodone and the other strong painkillers. Hallucinations (where people experience imaginary things, e.g. hearing voices) are much less common as a side effect of strong painkillers, and we found that they were less likely with oxycodone than with morphine. 
Overall, we found that the current evidence is comprised of studies that contained small numbers of people, of which many (12.2%) did not finish the studies. However, since there was very little difference between oxycodone and morphine, more research in this area is unlikely to be undertaken. This is partly because recruitment and retention of participants in this context is challenging. Studies looking at oxycodone compared to other strong painkillers may be useful. 
