Drugs given to pregnant women and their babies to keep them still during fetal surgery and other invasive procedures on the baby 
We looked for evidence from randomised controlled trials on the effectiveness of anaesthetic and pain relief medication for preventing fetal movements (fetal immobilisation) to allow surgical and other invasive procedures to be performed safely on the unborn fetus whilst still in the mother's uterus.  
What is the issue? 
Use of ultrasound during pregnancy has made great advances resulting in increased diagnosis of problems with the development of unborn babies. Many structural fetal problems as well as complications associated with multiple pregnancies can be treated while babies are still in the mother's uterus. Many problems generally require treatment before birth, for example a blockage in the airways. We set out to determine which medications are effective at providing fetal immobilisation for in‐utero procedures to be performed, as well as looking at the effect on the mother in terms of sedation and pain relief. For these procedures to be performed safely, fetal movements may need to be reduced. This can be done by giving medication either to the mother (usually by injection into a vein) or directly to the fetus (by injecting into fetal muscle). 
Why is this important? 
Treatment of structural issues such as lung or heart problems can greatly improve pregnancy and newborn outcomes. Similarly, with multiple pregnancy complications such as twin‐twin transfusion syndrome, where there is unequal sharing of the one placenta between the twins. Providing the best surgical conditions with reduced fetal movements means that the procedure can be performed safely and reduces complications such as preterm birth. It is also important to provide a safe environment for the mother without side effects such as oversedation or lack of pain relief during the procedure. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials to May 2021 and identified one eligible trial involving 54 pregnant women. All were women with a multiple pregnancy in their second trimester attending a European hospital for specialist care. The women received intravenous injection of either remifentanil or diazepam to immobilise the fetus and to sedate the mother during fetoscopic surgery. This is where a small instrument (laparoscope) is inserted through the mother's abdominal wall and into the uterus to see the fetus and placenta. The trial gave low‐certainty evidence. The main outcome looked at was how much the baby moved via assessment of body and limb movements. Maternal outcomes were the amount of sedation and depression of breathing. The time for surgery and surgical satisfaction with the procedural conditions were also measured. Low‐certainty evidence suggested that remifentanil may be better at reducing fetal movements when compared to diazepam and surgeons were more satisfied with the procedure when using remifentanil.  However, the amount of maternal sedation and depression of breathing were worse with remifentanil.  
What does this mean? 
Low‐certainty evidence from one small trial means that we cannot be confident in the results. The information available on maternal, fetal, and newborn outcomes was limited. More high‐quality trials are needed to increase our certainty about the longer term fetal and newborn impact of the medication used for fetal immobilisation for in‐utero procedures, as well as other medications which may be suitable for use. 
 
