Programmes, policies and work practices that reduce aggression by patients towards healthcare workers 
Aim of the review 
The aim of this review is to investigate the effectiveness of interventions, such as programmes, policies or work practices, at preventing and reducing aggression towards healthcare workers by patients and the individuals supporting patients. 
Key messages 
There is limited evidence that some interventions might reduce aggression towards healthcare workers. The available evidence is considered to be low‐ or very‐low quality. This means we cannot be confident in the results. Most of the studies are set in nursing homes or in psychiatric wards of hospitals. 
What was studied in the review? 
We searched for studies that evaluated the effectiveness of interventions, such as programmes, polices or work practices for preventing or reducing aggression towards healthcare workers. We included seven studies in the review. The studies used a variety of interventions that took place in nursing homes, psychiatric wards of hospitals and a hospital emergency department. 
Main results 
In nursing home settings, two interventions produced mixed results with a medium reduction in overall aggression towards healthcare workers, but no consistent reduction in either physical or verbal aggression. The interventions were playing music during bathing times, and using specific bathing techniques. A person‐centred culture led to a moderate reduction in physical aggression but not in verbal aggression. A humour clown intervention did not produce clear evidence of a reduction in aggression.In the psychiatric setting, there was only one intervention, a regular risk assessment of patients, that showed a reduction in aggression towards healthcare workers. A multicomponent intervention on policy, environment, and work practices did not produce clear evidence of a reduction in aggression. 
In the emergency department there was one intervention that involved changes to policies and procedures, the physical environment and education and training but it did not have an effect on aggression. 
