What factors influence implementation of doctor‐nurse substitution strategies in primary care? 
What was the aim of the review? 
In this Cochrane Review of qualitative studies ('qualitative evidence synthesis'), we explored peoples' views and experiences of moving tasks from doctors to nurses in primary healthcare. We collected relevant studies on this topic and included 66 studies (69 papers). 
This synthesis links to another Cochrane Review that assesses the effectiveness of moving tasks from doctors to nurses in primary care. 
Key messages 
Patients, doctors and nurses may accept the use of nurses to deliver services that are usually delivered by doctors. But this is likely to depend on the type of services. Nurses taking on extra tasks want respect and collaboration from doctors; proper resources; good referral systems; experienced leaders; clear roles; and adequate incentives, training and supervision. However, these needs are not always met. 
What was studied in the review? 
Many people do not get the healthcare they need because of a lack of healthcare workers where they live. Governments across the world are trying different solutions to address this problem. One possible solution is to move tasks from more‐specialised to less‐specialised health workers, for instance, moving certain tasks from doctors to nurses. 
In this review, we looked for studies that explored how patients, nurses, doctors and others viewed and experienced these solutions, and what could influence their success. 
What were the main results of the review? 
We included 66 studies (69 papers) in our review, 11 from low‐ or middle‐income countries and 55 from high‐income countries. These studies found a number of factors that appear to influence the implementation of doctor‐nurse substitution strategies. The following factors are based on findings that we assessed as moderate or high confidence: 
Patients in many studies knew little about nurses' roles and the difference between nurse‐led and doctor‐led care. They also had mixed views about the type of tasks that nurses should deliver. They preferred doctors when the tasks were more 'medical' but accepted nurses for preventive care and follow‐ups. Doctors in most studies also preferred that nurses performed only 'non‐medical' tasks. Nurses were comfortable with, and believed they were competent to deliver, a wide range of tasks, but particularly emphasised tasks that were more health promotive/preventive in nature. 
Patients in most studies thought that nurses were more easily accessible than doctors. Doctors and nurses also saw nurse‐doctor substitution and collaboration as a way of increasing people's access to care, and improving the quality and continuity of care. 
Nurses thought that close doctor‐nurse relationships and doctor's trust in and acceptance of nurses was important for shaping their roles. But nurses working alone sometimes found it difficult to communicate with doctors. 
