Sclerotherapy (injection techniques) for spider veins on the legs
Spider or thread veins (telangiectasias) are small superficial veins that widen and become visible, often on the legs. They are sometimes, but not always, associated with chronic venous disease affecting the deeper veins. Risk factors for developing spider veins include a family history, pregnancy, taking female hormones, topical steroid use, local trauma, and prolonged sitting or standing. Some people experience pain, cramps, burning, throbbing, itching or leg fatigue, and women in particular may be concerned about the cosmetic appearance. People are increasingly seeking treatment.  
Sclerotherapy has been used for centuries to treat spider veins. The technique involves the injection of a chemical into the veins. This is sometimes followed by compression with bandages or stockings. 
The liquid or foam sclerosing agent is injected into the vein to cause localised damage to the inner lining (endothelium) of the vein. This leads to inflammation, a blood clot, collapse and thickening or scarring of the vessel. The blood stops flowing and the vein loses its red or purple appearance. There is currently no agreement about which sclerosing agent is most effective with the fewest side effects and least discomfort to patients. 
We included 10 randomised controlled trials involving 484 people in our review. Sodium tetradecyl sulfate (STS), polidocanol (POL), and heparsal (20% saline mixed with heparin 100 units/mL) cleared the veins more effectively than an injection of normal saline. There was no evidence that one agent was better than any other sclerosant, that patients were more satisfied with one agent than another, and which dose of an agent was best. There was some evidence that POL was less painful than heparsal and STS, and that STS was more painful than heparsal. At higher doses, some of the agents appeared to cause more pain and side effects such as mild brown discoloration, a flare or blush next to the injected vein, or itching; however, we do not have enough evidence to determine the optimal concentration to use. The trials were designed in very different ways and used various agents, which meant we were unable to combine the studies to help form firm conclusions. The amount of available evidence was limited and the overall methodological quality of the research was poor, as was the quality of reporting. 
