Different surgical approaches to access the infrarenal abdominal aorta during an operation to repair an abdominal aortic aneurysm 
Background 
There has been a lot of debate in the surgical literature about the best way to surgically access the infrarenal abdominal aorta during an operation to repair an abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA: a ballooning of an artery (blood vessel) which occurs in the major artery in the abdomen (aorta)). Two approaches are commonly used: the retroperitoneal (RP) approach and the transperitoneal (TP) approach. Both approaches appear to have advantages and disadvantages. Many trials comparing RP and TP aortic surgery have been published, with conflicting results. The aim of this Cochrane Review is to assess the effectiveness and safety of the RP versus TP approach for planned surgical open AAA repair, taking into account mortality, complications, hospital stay and blood loss. This is an update of the review originally published in 2016. 
Key results 
We found no new studies from the updated searches. After reassessment, we included one study which had previously been excluded. Therefore, the review includes five small randomized controlled trials (RCTs), including 152 participants. The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to 30 November 2020. There were no clear differences between RP and TP for the outcome of death. Similarly, there was no clear evidence that RP might increase complications such as hematoma (swelling of clotted blood), chronic wound pain and abdominal wall hernia compared with TP, but there were variations between the included trials. We found that RP might result in shorter hospital stay and intensive care unit (ICU) stay and less blood loss compared with TP. There were no clear differences between the two approaches for operating time and aortic cross‐clamp time (length of time that a surgical instrument, used to clamp the aorta and separate the circulation from the outflow of the heart, is used). 
Reliability of the evidence 
Four of the five included trials had methodological weaknesses ‐ such as unclear randomization methods, and no reporting of blinding of the people assessing the outcome ‐ which compromised the value of their results. In addition, the included trials only included a small number of people, few outcomes were reported, participants were followed up for a relatively short time, and there were inconsistencies between the included trials, resulting in evidence of very low to low certainty. More large‐scale RCTs of the RP approach versus the TP approach for planned surgical open AAA repair are needed. 
