Mesh fixation techniques in ventral hernias
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of different techniques for fixing meshes (patches) in the belly wall in the course of ventral hernia repair. 
Background 
A hernia is a bulge or weakness, in which tissues or organs from inside the abdomen (the belly) can get trapped, and can cause discomfort and symptoms such as pain. The size of the hernia can be made worse by daily living activities, especially by coughing and straining. Hernias carry a risk of incarceration ( a hernia so occluded that it cannot be returned by manipulation)) and strangulation (when the circulation of blood has been cut off), which is a threat especially in incisional and umbilical hernias (navel area). An incisional hernia is a hernia that occurs through a previously‐made incision in the abdominal wall, i.e. the scar left from a previous surgical operation. The incision could have been made in order to get to an internal organ such as the appendix, or a caesarian section. 
Repair of a ventral (abdominal wall) hernia is done by surgery. The choice of the right surgical procedure will depend on different criteria, like size of the hernia, previous surgery, location of the hernia and general health. There are two types of surgery: Open surgery, where the hernia is closed by sewing the layers of the abdominal wall. Often, the surgeon places an additional mesh on a layer of the abdominal wall, which makes a recurrence of the hernia less likely. The other type is called laparoscopic surgery, where the surgeon makes a few small incisions and inserts tiny long instruments and a camera into the abdomen. For the laparoscopic repair of the hernia, a mesh has to be used in every patient. 
Different techniques are used to fix the mesh to the abdominal wall in ventral hernia repair. However, the advantages and disadvantages of these techniques are not yet clear. We reviewed the evidence of different fixation techniques for their effect on recurrence, pain, complications and health‐related quality of life in people with a ventral hernia. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 2 October 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included 10 studies involving 787 persons, with ages ranging from 31 to 62 years. Eight studies included people with primary as well as incisional ventral hernia, one study included people with umbilical (navel area) hernia only, and another study with incisional hernia only. Hernia size varied widely between studies. The number of included participants ranged from 40 to 199. Participant follow‐up was mostly short (less than 12 months). 
Key results 
The differences between the fixation techniques were small for our analysed outcomes. We could not find any difference between the use of tacks compared to sutures (stitches), the use of absorbable tacks compared to nonabsorbable tacks, the use of absorbable tacks compared to absorbable sutures and the use of fibrin sealant compared to tacks. In addition, the combination of fixation techniques (sutures and tacks) or materials (absorbable and nonabsorbable) showed no advantage for recurrence, pain or other complications. 
Certainty of evidence 
The certainty of evidence for the main outcomes of recurrence and pain, as well as for complications, was very low or low. The main reason for this was a lack of sufficient data, due to the small number of included participants, and the small number of hernia recurrences. Furthermore, almost all studies were at moderate to high risk of bias, as the healthcare professionals involved were unblinded, i.e. aware of the interventions their patients received. 
