Peer support interventions for parents and carers of children with complex needs
Review question 
This review assessed whether peer support interventions improve outcomes for parents and others caring for children with a wide range of complex needs (such as chronic or severe acute illness, disability, or delayed development). 
Background 
Parents and other family carers who care for children with complex needs may experience increased distress and reduced well‐being. Peer support interventions are intended to assist people caring for children to find social support from others who understand their situation. Peer support can be provided in groups, which sometimes are led by a facilitator, or can occur when people are matched with individual parents who have experience caring for a child with a similar condition. 
Study characteristics 
We included research up to 21 February 2018. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), cluster RCTs, quasi‐RCTs, controlled before‐and‐after studies, and interrupted time series studies were all eligible for inclusion. Studies were included if they measured distress, confidence, feelings of coping, quality of life, how families functioned, feelings of support, or confidence in dealing with services among parents or any other family carers. Children being cared for could have any condition (for example, chronic or severe acute illness, disability, any kind of delayed or atypical development). 
Results 
We found 22 studies of 2404 participants who were caring for children with a wide range of conditions. All studies were RCTs or quasi‐RCTs and compared peer support to usual care (comparison 1) or to another intervention (comparison 2). Peer support was delivered in hospitals and in the community. Although we found studies that evaluated effects of peer support on all outcomes in comparison 1, and several outcomes in comparison 2, we did not see any benefit from peer support compared to usual care or compared to another intervention. We found no studies that reported on adverse effects (such as stress from hearing others' stories or conflicts with group members). Feedback from parents and carers suggests that they value emotional support, validation of their experiences, and access to knowledge that they find in peer support groups. More information is needed about training and supervision of peer support leaders, and about whether many participants withdraw from groups (and if so, why). 
The overall quality of evidence for each outcome was low to very low, and because of this, our certainty about these findings is low. This means that further research is likely to change these findings while making clearer the possible benefits or harms of peer support interventions. 
