Automated monitoring for the early detection of sepsis in patients receiving care in intensive care units 
Review question 
Can automated systems for the early detection of sepsis reduce the time to treatment and improve outcomes in patients in the intensive care unit (ICU), in comparison to standard care? 
Background 
Sepsis happens when a person develops an infection and their immune system overreacts to it. If sepsis is not managed it can quickly develop into septic shock, which causes organs such as the liver and heart to stop working properly. People can be affected by sepsis at any time but people in intensive care settings are more likely to be affected by it. Septic shock is fatal for 20% to 70% of people admitted to intensive care in Europe. There is no single diagnostic test that can tell if someone has sepsis or not. Instead, the results of several tests (such as blood tests) have to be reviewed along with other information about the patient (such as their medical history), and clinical observations (such as heart rate, temperature, and blood pressure). This process can be time consuming and complicated to do. People already admitted to intensive care are likely to be very unwell and it can be difficult to tell if abnormal results are because of the problem that caused them to be admitted to intensive care, or because of sepsis. 
Automated monitoring systems are electronic systems that can collect and analyse information from different sources, and can be used to alert staff when the signs and symptoms of sepsis have been identified. This may mean that sepsis is diagnosed at the earliest possible time, enabling treatment to begin before organ damage happens. However, there is the possibility that automated monitoring systems don't help, or even cause harm. This might happen if the systems are unable to correctly detect sepsis (meaning that treatment is not started when it should be, or it is started when it shouldn't be), or health care staff may not respond to alerts quickly enough, especially if the systems give too many false alarms. 
Study characteristics 
We conducted a search to identify evidence published before September 2017. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they compared automated sepsis monitoring to standard care (such as paper‐based systems) in people admitted to intensive or critical care units for critical illness. We did not include non‐randomized studies (studies where participants were not allocated to treatment groups by chance), quasi‐randomized studies (studies where participants were allocated to treatment groups by a method that is not truly down to chance, such as date of birth or medical number), and cross‐over studies (where participants first receive one treatment and then cross over to receive the other treatment). Studies including people already diagnosed with sepsis were also excluded. 
