Exercise for treatment of chronic low back pain
Is exercise an effective therapy to treat long‐lasting low back pain? 
Key messages  
‐ Exercise probably reduces pain compared to no treatment, usual care or placebo in people with long‐lasting (chronic) low back pain. 
‐ Exercise may reduce pain and improve disability compared to common treatments such as electrotherapy or education. 
‐ There is a lot of research in this field but we need bigger and better designed studies to allow us to draw firm conclusions. 
How might exercise help people with long‐lasting low back pain?  
Long‐lasting (chronic) low back pain is a common cause of disability across the world and is expensive in terms of healthcare costs and lost working hours. Exercise therapy aims to increase muscle and joint strength, and improve muscle function and range of motion. This should reduce pain and disability, and speed recovery and return to usual activities. Exercise therapies are designed or prescribed by health professionals and cover a range of exercise types, durations, and delivery methods. Examples of exercise therapies include general physical fitness programmes delivered in a group setting, aerobic exercise in the form of walking programmes, and strengthening of specific muscles or groups of muscles to increase core stability. 
What did we want to find out?  
We wanted to know whether exercise improves pain and disability for people with chronic low back pain more than no treatment, usual care, placebo or other common treatments. In our review, chronic low back pain is pain that lasts three months or longer or that goes away but returns more than twice in one year. It does not have a specific cause such as a tumour or injury. Examples of common treatments are spinal manipulation, or psychological therapy. ‘Usual care’ is care provided by a family physician. 
What did we do?  We searched for studies that assessed the effects of exercise therapy on pain or disability compared to no treatment, usual care, placebo or other common treatments. People in the studies had to be adults with chronic low back pain. 
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find?  
We found 249 studies with a total of 24,486 people. Most studies took place in Europe (122 studies); other common study locations were Asia, North America, and the Middle East. Study participants’ average age was 43.7 years; 59% were women. Participants’ average pain intensity at the start of the studies was 51 points on a 100‐point scale, where 100 is the most pain. They had back pain for 12 weeks to 3 years (78 studies) or longer than 3 years (72 studies); 99 studies did not report how long their participants had low back pain. 
Sixty‐one per cent of studies (151 studies) examined the effectiveness of two or more different types of exercise, and 57% (142 studies) compared exercise therapy to a non‐exercise treatment. The most common types of exercises were core strengthening (127 study groups), mixed exercises (>2 types) (109 study groups), Pilates (29 study groups), general strengthening exercises (52 study groups), and aerobic exercise (30 study groups). Exercise sessions were one‐on‐one with a healthcare provider (163 study groups) or in a group exercise class (162 study groups). More than half of studies included another treatment alongside exercise (247 study groups), including education or advice (137 study groups), electrotherapy (46 study groups), or manual therapy (21 study groups). 
Most studies measured pain (223 studies) and disability (223 studies). Only 12 studies reported data that we could use on unwanted effects of treatments. Studies followed people in the short term (6 to 12 weeks; 184 studies); medium term (13 to 47 weeks; 121 studies) and long‐term (48 weeks or more, 69 studies). 
We also identified 172 more recent studies that we will add to the next version of our review. 
Main results  
People receiving exercise therapy rated their pain on average 15 points better and their disability 7 points better, on a scale of 0 to 100, three months after the start of treatment compared to people who had no treatment, usual care or placebo. Exercise is probably more effective for pain (35 studies, 2746 people) and probably slightly more effective for disability (38 studies, 2942 people) than no treatment, usual care or placebo at all follow‐up periods. 
Exercise may be more effective for pain (64 studies, 6295 people) and is probably more effective for disability (52 studies, 6004 people) than common treatments in the short and medium term. 
Few studies reported mostly minor unwanted effects of exercise, most commonly increased low back pain and muscle soreness. However, the non‐exercise groups reported similar types and numbers of unwanted effects. 
What are the limitations of the evidence?  
Our confidence in the evidence is limited. The studies used exercise therapy in different ways and so reported different results from each other. Some studies were very small – the average number of participants was just 98. It is possible that the design of some studies may have made the benefits of exercise seem larger than they are. 
