Surgery for the treatment of obesity in children and adolescents
Review question 
How effective is bariatric surgery in safely reducing weight in obese children and adolescents? 
Background 
Across the world more children and adolescents are becoming overweight and obese. As overweight and obese children are more likely to suffer from health problems, more information is needed about how best to treat this problem. 
Study characteristics 
We found one randomised controlled trial with a total of 50 participants (25 in both the intervention and comparator group) and a follow‐up of two years. The surgery used was 'laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding' (gastric band placed around the entrance of the stomach by means of keyhole surgery). The control group received a program consisting of reduced energy intake (individualised diet plans ranging between 800 and 2000 kcal per day, depending on age and weight), increased activity (target of 10,000 steps per day) with a structured exercise schedule of at least 30 minutes a day and behavioural modification. 
Key results 
Australian adolescents (higher proportion of girls than boys) with an average age of 16.5 and 16.6 years in the gastric banding and 'lifestyle' group participated. The study authors reported an average reduction in weight of 34.6 kg at two years, representing a change in body mass index units (kg/m²) of 12.7 for the gastric banding group; and an average reduction in weight of 3.0 kg representing a change in body mass index units of 1.3 for the lifestyle intervention. Side effects were reported in 12 of 25 (48%) participants in the intervention group and in 11 of 25 (44%) in the control group. A total of 28% of the adolescents undergoing gastric banding required a 'revisional procedure' (surgery because of complications from the gastric banding surgery). No data were reported for all‐cause mortality, behaviour change, participants views of the intervention and socioeconomic effects. At two years, the gastric banding participants performed better than the lifestyle participants in two of eight health‐related quality of life concepts as measured by the Child Health Questionnaire (physical functioning score (94 versus 78, community norm 95) and change in health score (4.4 versus 3.6, community norm 3.5). 
Quality of the evidence 
Our results are limited to two years of follow‐up and are based on just one small Australian study with some risk of bias which was conducted in a private hospital, receiving funding from the gastric banding manufacturer. There is currently insufficient evidence to make an informed judgement about surgery for the treatment of obesity in children and adolescents. 
Currentness of evidence 
This evidence is up to date as of March 2015.
