What are the effects of physical therapy interventions before, during, and after childhood cancer treatment? 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of physical therapy interventions, other than general physical exercise interventions, on the quality of life of children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer compared to a control group of children receiving standard care, no physical therapy intervention or a comparison intervention. We also reviewed the occurrence of any harms (adverse effects) resulting from the physical therapy interventions. For the purpose of this review, physical therapy interventions of interest had to have a focus on symptom relief or address therapy‐related side effects (symptoms and impairments). We excluded studies examining general physical exercise interventions where the primary aim was to improve physical fitness through aerobic exercise, resistance exercise or combined physical exercise training regimens (i.e. combined aerobic and resistance exercise regimens). 
Background 
Children and adolescents with cancer often have side effects from cancer and its treatments. These side effects can negatively impact a child's quality of life and ability to participate in daily activities such as play. Researchers have carried out studies that examine physical therapy interventions in children with cancer. However, the benefits of physical therapy are unclear. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to March 2020. We did not identify any eligible studies.
Key results 
We did not identify any studies that examined on the effects of physical therapy interventions on the quality of life of children and adolescents diagnosed with cancer, compared to a control group of children receiving standard care, no physical therapy intervention or a comparison intervention. Thus, no conclusions can be made. Our results show that further research is needed examining the effects of physical therapy interventions in children and adolescents with cancer. 
