Computerised cognitive training for maintaining cognitive function in cognitively healthy people in midlife 
Background 
The terms 'cognition' and 'cognitive function' describe all the mental activities related to thinking, learning, remembering, and communicating. Normal changes in cognition become evident with aging. Also, diseases may affect cognition, principally dementia, which becomes increasingly common with increasing age from about 65 years onwards. Researchers have shown a great deal of interest in trying to prevent cognitive decline and dementia. It is known that being mentally active throughout life is associated with lower risk of dementia. Therefore, it is has been suggested that encouraging mental activity in midlife (which we define in this review as 40 to 65 years of age) might be an effective way of maintaining good cognitive function as people age. Cognitive training involves a set of standardised tasks intended to 'exercise the brain' in various ways. Programmes of cognitive training are often delivered by way of computers or mobile technology so that people can perform activities on their own at home. Increasingly, these are provided in commercial packages that are advertised to the general public. We wanted to know whether computerised cognitive training is an effective way for people between 40 and 65 years of age to maintain good cognitive function as they age. 
What we did 
We searched the medical literature up to 15 March 2018 for trials that compared the cognitive function of people 40 to 65 years of age who had taken part in computerised cognitive training lasting at least three months versus a control group that had not done so. For the comparison to be as fair as possible, it should have been decided randomly whether participants were assigned to the cognitive training group or the control group. We were primarily interested in overall measures of cognition. The choice of three months of intervention was somewhat arbitrary, but we thought it unlikely that shorter periods of training could have long‐lasting effects. 
