Complementary and alternative therapies for post‐caesarean pain
Background 
Pain after caesarean sections (CS) can affect the well‐being of the mother and her interaction with her baby. To manage pain relief during this period, most women receive analgesic drugs. However, these medications can potentially cause side effects in the mother and her baby. Complementary and alternative therapies (CAM) may be a safe way of reducing pain after a CS without adverse effects. 
What is the question? 
What are the effects of CAM in the treatment of post‐caesarean pain?
Why is this important? 
The findings of this review will be useful to help inform women, midwives and doctors about the potential benefits and disadvantages of CAM for pain relief after CS. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the literature in September 2019 and found 37 studies that evaluated eight different types of CAM. The certainty of the evidence from the studies ranged from low to very low, which means that we cannot be confident in the findings. The key reasons for this were that results were not always completely or clearly reported, the studies had serious limitations, and the results lacked precision. 
Acupuncture or acupressure 
We are uncertain if acupuncture or acupressure (versus no treatment) or acupuncture or acupressure plus analgesia (versus placebo plus analgesia) has any effect on pain because the quality of evidence is very low. Acupuncture or acupressure plus analgesia (versus analgesia) may reduce pain at 12 hours and 24 hours. 
It is uncertain whether acupuncture or acupressure (versus no treatment) or acupuncture or acupressure plus analgesia (versus analgesia) has any effect on the risk of adverse effects because the quality of evidence is very low. 
Aromatherapy 
Aromatherapy may reduce pain at 12 and 24 hours when compared with placebo plus analgesia. It is uncertain if aromatherapy compared with placebo plus analgesia has any effect on adverse effects (anxiety). 
Electromagnetic therapy 
Electromagnetic therapy may reduce pain at 12 and 24 hours and may reduce rescue analgesic requirement compared with placebo plus analgesia. 
Massage therapy 
We are uncertain if hand and foot massage plus analgesia, compared with analgesia, has any effect on pain, adverse effects (anxiety) heart rate and respiratory rate because the quality of evidence is very low. 
Music therapy 
Music plus analgesia, compared with placebo plus analgesia, may reduce pain at one hour and 24 hours. It is uncertain if music plus analgesia, compared with placebo plus analgesia, has any effect on the risk of adverse effects (anxiety) or on heart rate. 
Music plus analgesia compared with analgesia may reduce pain at one hour and 24 hours.
Reiki 
It is uncertain if Reiki, compared with analgesia has any effect on pain at either one hour or 24 hours, adverse effects (anxiety) or vital signs because the quality of evidence is very low. 
Relaxation 
It is uncertain if relaxation, compared with standard care, has any effect on pain at 12 hours but it may reduce pain at 24 hours after the intervention. 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) 
TENS may reduce pain at one hour after the intervention, compared with no treatment.
TENS plus analgesia, compared with placebo plus analgesia, may reduce pain, heart rate and respiratory rate. 
It is uncertain if TENS plus analgesia, compared with analgesia, has any effect on pain at six or 24 hours after the intervention or on vital signs or on rescue analgesic requirement. 
What does this mean? 
There may be some benefit of acupuncture or acupressure, aromatherapy, electromagnetic therapy, massage, music therapy, relaxation, and TENS in the management of pain in women undergoing CS. From these trials, the evidence on harmful effects of CAM are lacking or are very uncertain. 
Since pain control is the most relevant outcome for post‐CS women and their clinicians, it is important that future studies of CAM for post‐CS pain measure pain, preferably as the proportion of participants with at least moderate (30%) or substantial (50%) pain relief. Future trials also need to have be large enough to detect effects on clinical outcomes; measure other important outcomes as listed lin this review, and use validated scales. 
