Interventions for the prevention of persistent smell disorders (olfactory dysfunction) after COVID‐19 infection 
Why this is important 
COVID‐19 has been found to cause problems with the sense of smell. Sometimes this is a reduction in the ability to smell things, and sometimes it is a complete loss of the sense of smell. For many people this recovers in a short time, but for others it may last for weeks or months. This review considers whether there are treatments that people might take as soon as they have lost their sense of smell (within four weeks of the symptoms starting), to try and stop this becoming a long‐standing problem. 
How we identified and assessed the evidence 
We searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature to summarise the results. We also looked at how certain the evidence was, considering things like the size of the studies and how they were carried out. Based on this, we classed the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What we found 
We found five studies that had been completed. 
Intranasal corticosteroids compared to no treatment  
Three studies looked at this treatment. 
Nasal corticosteroid spray might make little or no difference to the sense of smell when measured with specific tests (rather than when asking people about their sense of smell). 
The rest of the evidence was of very low certainty, so we do not know whether a nasal corticosteroid spray is better or worse than no treatment at: 
‐ helping the sense of smell get back to normal (either people feeling that their sense of smell is back to normal, or having a normal sense of smell according to specific tests); 
‐ making people feel that their sense of smell has improved;
‐ causing any unwanted side effects.
Intranasal corticosteroid drops compared to placebo (dummy treatment) 
One study looked at this treatment.
Intranasal corticosteroid drops might not make any difference to the number of people who think their sense of smell has recovered at 30 days.  
We did find a number of other studies that are being carried out, but no results from these studies were available yet to be included in this review. 
