Oxandrolone for growth hormone‐treated girls aged up to 18 years with Turner syndrome
Review question 
What are the effects of giving oxandrolone to growth hormone‐treated girls aged up to 18 years with Turner syndrome? 
Background 
Turner syndrome is a genetic disorder of girls with a chromosomal anomaly where all or part of one of the two X chromosomes is missing or changed. Turner syndrome shows various signs and symptoms, among them short stature. Growth failure in childhood leading to short final adult height contributes to social and emotional impairment. Without treatment, girls with Turner syndrome are about 20 cm shorter than healthy youngsters. Treatment of girls with Turner syndrome with growth hormone increases adult height. We wanted to find out if the addition of oxandrolone would further improve the final adult height and the effects of this combination on other symptoms. Oxandrolone is an androgen. Androgens are essential male sex hormones and are important for females as well. 
Study characteristics 
We included six randomised controlled trials (clinical trials where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups). The duration of the treatments ranged between 3 and 7.6 years. Study authors allocated 498 participants to treatment groups, 267 participants to oxandrolone plus growth hormone treatment and 231 participants to growth hormone only treatment. The average age of the children at begin of treatment ranged from 9 to 12 years. 
This evidence is up to date as of October 2018.
Key results 
When comparing oxandrolone plus growth hormone to growth hormone only, the final adult height was on average 2.7 cm higher in favour of oxandrolone plus growth hormone therapy. Only two studies provided reliable data on side effects: 6 out of 86 (19%) participants given oxandrolone plus growth hormone compared with 8 out of 84 (10%) participants given growth hormone only reported side effects, mainly signs of development of male physical characteristics (for example deepening of the voice). One study investigated the effects of treatments on speech, the process of acquiring knowledge and understanding (cognition), and mental and emotional (psychological) status. The overall results for these were inconclusive. No trial measured people's satisfaction with their life and health or death from any cause. 
Quality of the evidence 
For side effects and effects on speech, cognition and psychological status, we are uncertain or very uncertain, mainly because the number of studies and participants was low and results were vague. For final adult height, we think that further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the results and may change the results. 
