Conservative (non‐pharmaceutical and non‐surgical) treatments for children who have daytime urinary incontinence 
Background 
Many children continue to have daytime wetting accidents (urinary incontinence) long after most become dry, some into teenage years. When there is no known cause, it is referred to as functional daytime urinary incontinence. Daytime wetting can be a practical problem for the child and their carers, leading to additional laundry, expenses on absorbent pads or underwear, wet or stained furnishings and difficulties attending school or travelling. It can also lead to emotional stress, poor school attendance and performance, difficulties with social activities and making friends, and even depression and behaviour problems. Finding an effective treatment can improve the quality of life of children and their carers. 
Review question 
Children, their carers, doctors and nurses may want to avoid treatments that involve drugs or surgery, at least until they have tried treatments that do not involve these. In this review researchers brought together the results of studies conducted around the world to combine the evidence and assess which treatment(s) are most effective for managing daytime urinary incontinence in children. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence is current to 11 September 2018.
Study characteristics and funding sources 
The review identified 27 studies involving 1803 children.
Twelve studies declared funding from outside sources. One of these was funded by Astellas Pharma, while another study was provided with special batches of placebo and medication free of charge, as well as materials for pad tests free of charge from another company. 
Certainty of evidence 
Cochrane Reviews assess the 'certainty' or reliability of the evidence using standardised methods that consider the way studies were designed, conducted and reported, differences between studies or populations, and the combined results of studies. Most of the studies identified for this review were small and many were poorly designed and not reported clearly. Most of the evidence was considered to be of very low certainty, meaning that little can be said with any certainty about the effectiveness of treatments. 
Key results 
Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) may be more effective than no treatment for ending or reducing daytime wetting. 
We are uncertain whether urotherapy (behavioural programmes in which children ‐ and sometimes carers ‐ are taught about how the bladder works, proper toileting postures and methods, scheduled toileting, and planning what and how much to drink) is more effective when supplemented with PFMT, voiding education with feedback, or watches with alarms set to remind children when to go to the toilet. 
We are uncertain whether feedback that shows children how their muscles are working or how their bladder is emptying improves the effectiveness of TENS with urotherapy compared to PFMT plus feedback and urotherapy. We are also uncertain whether PFMT and urotherapy plus feedback improves the effectiveness of PFMT and urotherapy alone. 
We are uncertain whether pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) or TENS are more effective than anticholinergics (drugs that can reduce signals from the brain that cause the bladder to contract and empty). 
We are uncertain whether voiding education plus uroflowmetry (a test to measure the volume of urine) and feedback increases the number of continent children compared to anticholinergics. 
