Topical treatments for psoriasis of the scalp
Background 
People with chronic plaque psoriasis often have lesions on the scalp. As well as itching, the reddish, scaly lesions are visible and are often embarrassing. 'Topical' treatments (drugs applied to the skin, e.g. as creams) are usually tried first, but applying them to the scalp is difficult because of the hair. There are a number of topical drugs in use, such as corticosteroids (also known as steroids), vitamin D, tar‐based preparations, tacrolimus, dithranol or salicylic acid. Some topical corticosteroids have more potency than others so are categorised into four levels of strength: mild, moderate, high and very high. As psoriasis remains a long‐term condition, it is of great importance to know which of the drugs work best, what kind of side effects they may have and how likely they are to occur. 
Review question 
What are the most effective and safest treatments for psoriasis on the scalp?
Study characteristics 
We looked at 59 randomised controlled trials with 11,561 participants. Thirty studies were either conducted or sponsored by the manufacturer of the study medication. 
Quality of the evidence 
On average, the overall quality of the evidence was moderate for the three most important comparisons that included corticosteroids (e.g. betamethasone dipropionate), vitamin D (e.g. calcipotriol) and their combination product. We looked for a reduction in the severity of the psoriasis, improvement in quality of life and harmful side effects of the treatments. Most findings were based on short‐term therapies with a duration of less than six months. 
Key results 
Prior investigators found that the combination product was more effective than the steroid alone, but clinically the benefit was questionable. Both treatments reduced scalp psoriasis better than vitamin D. 
Due to poor information, we could not assess which treatment improved quality of life best. Most studies simply did not measure the improvement in quality of life. 
Participants who applied vitamin D stopped treatment more often because of harmful side effects than those who applied a topical steroid or the combination product. Steroids were as likely as the combination product to cause discontinuation of the treatment because of side effects. However, only a few participants who used one of the three medications experienced harmful side effects. No study reported the type of side effect that made participants stop the treatment. 
Participants assessed the efficacy of the treatments similarly to the investigator: those who applied a steroid or the combination product responded better to treatment than participants who used vitamin D alone. Statistically, the combination product was more effective than the steroid alone, but clinically the benefit was questionable. 
The most common harmful side effects of these treatments were irritation, itching and skin pain at the site of application. Side effects on other sites of the body were very rare and most likely not caused by the drug. 
Other findings were the following: steroids, vitamin D and their combination product were more effective than the vehicle preparation (cream, shampoo etc) that did not contain the active drug. Compared to one another, steroids tended to be similarly effective and have similar side effects, even though some were of a higher strength. 
We could not sufficiently assess the efficacy and safety of other topical treatments, such as salicylic acid, tar or dithranol. 
Conclusion 
Steroids and the two‐compound combination of a steroid and vitamin D were most effective with the least risk of causing harmful side effects. Given the similar safety profile and only slim benefit of the two‐compound combination over the steroid alone, topical steroids on their own may be fully acceptable for short‐term therapy. 
