Drug treatment for pain in Guillain‐Barré syndrome
Review question 
Our aim in this review was to find out whether medicines for pain in Guillain‐Barré syndrome (GBS) are safe and effective. 
Background 
GBS is a rare disease that affects the nerves and nerve roots outside the brain and spinal cord. It occurs when the person's immune system attacks the nerves. The trigger is sometimes an infection. Pain in GBS is often under recognised and poorly managed. 
Study characteristics 
We first carried out a wide search of medical databases to find studies that met the requirements for this review. We identified three studies, which involved 277 participants who were randomly assigned to different treatments for pain in GBS. Two studies compared a pain medicine (gabapentin or carbamazepine) with placebo (inactive treatment). The other study compared a steroid medicine with placebo. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Two medicines, gabapentin and carbamazepine, reduced pain severity compared to placebo (inactive) treatment and they had few side effects. One study found that people taking gabapentin had less pain, sleepiness or need for additional pain killers than those given carbamazepine. However, these studies were small and the treatment period was short. One trial, with 223 participants, found that methylprednisolone, which is a steroid medicine, did not affect the numbers of people who developed pain or change the numbers with more pain or less pain compared with placebo. This study did not report whether there were any side effects. 
This review does not provide enough evidence to say whether or not treatments for pain in people with GBS work. Although both gabapentin and carbamazepine reduced the severity of pain compared to placebo, and few side effects were reported, the studies were small and the quality of the evidence was very low. Much larger, well‐designed studies are needed to confirm that drug treatments are safe and effective for people with pain in the period soon after onset of GBS. Long‐term studies of pain treatments at the stage when people with GBS are recovering should also be conducted and these should include assessment of effects of pain treatments on quality of life. 
This review was first published in 2013 and an updated search in 2014 revealed no additional studies. The evidence is current to November 2014. 
