Regular clotting factor replacement therapy to prevent joint damage in people living with severe hemophilia A or B 
Review question 
Should people, who have previously been treated for joint bleeding, be given regular preventative treatment with clotting factor concentrates to manage their condition? 
Background 
Hemophilia A and B are X‐linked inherited bleeding disorders in which bleeding  into joints is a major problem. Repeated joint bleeds can lead to affected joints (commonly referred to as 'target joints') becoming damaged and painful, with limited movement. Currently, bleeding is treated and prevented with plasma‐derived or recombinant clotting factor concentrates, and more recently non‐clotting factor formulations. This review looked at how useful and effective different clotting factor treatment strategies are for preventing joint bleeding and other outcomes in previously treated people with hemophilia A or B. 
Search date 
Date of last search: 24 February 2021.
Study characteristics 
This review includes 10 randomised controlled trials. Eight had treatment arms that compared the regular use of clotting factor concentrates to prevent joint bleeds with different dosing schemes to identify regimens that may be better; four had treatment arms that compared the regular use of factor concentrates to prevent bleeds to their 'on demand' use to treat bleeds once they occur (two trials had multiple arms and were included in both comparisons). 
Key results 
In people living with hemophilia A or B previously treated for joint bleeding or with existing joint damage, preventive therapy may reduce the number of joint bleeds compared to 'on‐demand therapy'. This reduction in bleeds may lead to an improvement in joint function, pain, and quality of life. However, preventive therapy is linked to an increased use of factor concentrates and therefore higher treatment costs. Further studies are needed to establish the best preventive course of treatment in terms of starting time, frequency and dose level. 
