Interventions for congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot)
Review question 
The purpose of this review was to assess treatments for congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot). 
Background 
Clubfoot is a condition, present at birth, in which the foot is in an inturned position. There is no known cause. Different treatments might be effective at different stages: at birth (initial presentation); when initial treatment does not work (resistant presentation); when the initial treatment works but the clubfoot returns (relapse/recurrent presentation); and when there has been no early treatment (neglected presentation). Treatment aims to put the foot back into a normal position and to be pain‐free throughout life. 
Treatment can be non‐surgical, surgical or both. Non‐surgical treatment (for example, casting or stretches) gently stretches the foot into a normal position. Surgery may involve the muscles, tendons, ligaments or joints. Kite and Ponseti techniques both involve prolonged joint manipulation and serial casting to correct foot alignment. The Ponseti technique involves manipulation (of the ankle joint) and usually Achilles tendon surgery, while Kite is a technique involving manipulation of the foot. 
Study characteristics 
From our searches we found 21 trials with 905 participants. All trials had problems of design or conduct that might have affected the results. Treatments were studied at birth (14 trials, 560 participants), during relapse (four trials, 181 participants), or at an unknown time (three trials, 153 participants). We required studies to have used 'validated' measures (i.e. shown to be reliable, consistent, and sensitive to change). Many trials did not take bilateral cases (children with two affected feet) into account during randomisation and statistical analysis. For these reasons, we were unable to include much of the data from the trials in the review. 
Results and certainty of the evidence 
Our main measure of the success of treatment was function (how well the foot worked in everyday life). Two trials reported on function but data were not available to re‐analyse. 
