The use of salbutamol (albuterol) in the management of transient tachypnea of the newborn 
Review question: does salbutamol reduce the duration of oxygen therapy and the need for respiratory support in newborns with transient tachypnea? 
Background: transient tachypnea (abnormally rapid breathing) of the newborn is characterized by high respiratory rate (more than 60 breaths per minute) and signs of respiratory distress (difficulty in breathing); it typically appears within the first two hours of life in infants born at or after 34 weeks' gestational age. Although transient tachypnea of the newborn usually improves without treatment, it is associated with wheezing syndromes in late childhood. The idea behind using salbutamol for transient tachypnea of the newborn is based on studies showing that medicines called β‐agonists, such as epinephrine (also known as adrenaline), can accelerate the rate of clearance of fluid from small cavities (alveoli) within the lungs. This review reported and critically analyzed the available evidence on the effectiveness of salbutamol in the management of transient tachypnea of the newborn. 
Study characteristics: in medical literature searches complete to April 2020, we identified and included seven clinical trials with 498 newborns comparing salbutamol with placebo. Six studies evaluated a single, nebulized (where the medicine is given in a fine mist) dose of salbutamol, and one study evaluated two different dosages. We found five additional trials that are still underway. 
Key results: we are uncertain whether salbutamol administration reduces the duration of oxygen therapy, duration of tachypnea, need for continuous positive airway pressure and for mechanical ventilation. Salbutamol may slightly reduce hospital stay.  
Certainty of evidence was low for the outcome, duration of hospital stay, and very low for duration of oxygen therapy and of tachypnea, need for continuous positive airway pressure and for mechanical ventilation. Given the limited and low certainty of the evidence available, we could not determine whether salbutamol was safe or effective for the treatment of transient tachypnea of the newborn. 
