Imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) during chemotherapy to predict outcome in adults with Hodgkin lymphoma 
Review question 
This Cochrane Review aimed to find out whether the results of a positron emission tomography (PET) during therapy in people with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) can help to distinguish between those with a poor prognosis and those with a better prognosis, and predict survival outcomes in each group. 
Background 
Hodgkin lymphoma is a cancer which affects the lymphoid system of the body. It is considered a relatively rare disease (two to three cases per 100,000 people every year in Western countries), that is most common in young adults in their twenties, but it can also occur in children and elderly people. As treatment options have improved, most people with HL can now be cured. It is important that individuals receive the treatment with the greatest efficacy and least toxicity possible. PET is an imaging tool for assessing the disease stage of an individual, and monitoring tumour activity. It has been suggested that PET performed during therapy (so‐called interim PET, e.g. after two cycles of chemotherapy) can distinguish between people who respond well to therapy and those who do not respond well. The aim of this review was to demonstrate the prognostic ability to distinguish between these groups, and predict survival outcomes in each group, to help clinicians make an informed decision on the treatment pathway to improve long‐term outcomes and safety for people with HL. 
Study characteristics 
We included 23 studies to explore the association between interim PET scan results after one to four cycles of chemotherapy and survival outcomes in adults with HL (all stages). We contacted 10 authors, and six provided us with relevant information and/or data. 
Key results 
In 16 included studies, participants received either ABVD chemotherapy or BEACOPP chemotherapy (four studies) only, with or without radiotherapy. In 16 studies, participants underwent an interim PET scan in combination with a computed tomography (CT) (PET‐CT), which have higher accuracy in detecting primary and secondary cancers than a PET scan alone. In the remaining seven studies, PET‐only was conducted. Twenty‐one studies conducted interim PET scans after two cycles (PET2) of chemotherapy. 
