Fish oil (n‐3 or omega‐3) for pregnant mothers or breastfeeding mothers to prevent allergies in their young children 
Fish and fish oil are the major sources of omega‐3 long chain fatty acids. Dietary marine omega‐3 fatty acid supplements during pregnancy may change the immune system of the newborn before allergic responses are established, particularly for those with a genetic predisposition to the production of the immunoglobulin E (IgE) antibody. Individuals with IgE‐mediated allergies have both the signs and symptoms of the allergic disease and a positive skin prick test (SPT) to the allergen. 
Allergy is an important public health problem that places a burden on individuals, society and healthcare costs. Allergic diseases include food allergies, eczema (atopic dermatitis), asthma or wheeze and hay fever (allergic rhinitis). Many childhood allergies continue into adulthood. 
Pregnant women, especially those from Western countries, are not eating as much fish and allergic diseases have been increasing over the time that pregnant women have been eating less fish. The unborn baby gets nutrition from his or her mother and so the mother's diet is important. Supplementing women with omega‐3 fatty acids from marine origin may be important in preventing their children from developing allergies. 
In this review of randomised controlled studies, we evaluated the effects of adding marine omega‐3 fatty acids to women’s diets during pregnancy or lactation on allergic diseases in their children. We analysed eight trials that involved 3366 women and 3175 children. The women were randomly assigned to receive a marine omega‐3 supplement (as fish oil capsules, or added to foods) or no treatment during pregnancy (five trials), during breast feeding (two trials) or both pregnancy and breast feeding (one trial). Overall, the methodological quality of the trials varied, with only two trials being at low risk of bias. 
Overall, the results showed little effect of maternal marine omega‐3 supplementation during pregnancy and/or breast feeding for the reduction of allergic disease in the children. However there were reductions in some outcomes such as food allergy during the baby's first year and eczema with marine omega‐3 supplementation in women with a baby at high risk of allergy. Currently, there is not enough evidence to say that omega‐3 supplements from marine origin during pregnancy and/or breast feeding for mothers will reduce allergies in their children. 
In terms of safety for the mother and child, omega‐3 fatty acids supplementation from marine origin during pregnancy did not show increased risk of excessive bleeding after the baby was born (postpartum haemorrhage) or early childhood infections. 
