Ketamine venous injection for acute pain after operation in adults
Bottom line 
Ketamine injected into a vein at the time of operation reduces pain, nausea and vomiting, and use of opioid (morphine‐like) painkillers after operation. 
Background 
Poor pain management after an operation increases the risk of complications, decreases quality of life, and increases the risk for chronic pain. Painkillers such as paracetamol and non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (ibuprofen, diclofenac), alone may be insufficient. Opioids (strong painkillers), often cause side effects. Studies suggested that ketamine used by injection during an operation helps to relieve pain after the operation. 
Study characteristics 
In July 2018 we searched for randomised clinical trials where ketamine was injected before, during, or after operation in adults having an operation under general anaesthesia. Important outcomes were opioid use and pain at 24 and 48 hours after the operation, time to first request for a painkiller, and ketamine‐related side effects. We found 130 eligible studies with 8341 participants. 
Key findings 
Compared to people given control treatment, those given intravenous ketamine used less opioid painkiller (by about 1 part in 10), and had less pain (by about 2 parts in 10; moderate‐ or high‐quality evidence). Ketamine may be more effective in operations that are likely to cause more intense pain. People given ketamine requested painkillers 54 minutes later than those who did not receive ketamine (moderate‐quality evidence). Ketamine reduced the risk of postoperative nausea and vomiting by a small amount (high‐quality evidence). Ketamine produced no increased risk of central nervous system side effects (hallucination, nightmares or double vision) (high‐quality evidence). 
Future research should assess ketamine's effect after operations that are accompanied by intense pain such as thoracotomy, back surgery, or amputations. Additionally, assessing ketamine's effects among particular patient groups, for example, the elderly or individuals with a history of substance abuse would be of interest. 
