Non‐drug approaches for preventing delirium in adults receiving care in hospital outside of intensive care and high dependency units 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for non‐pharmacological (non‐medication‐based) approaches to prevent delirium in adults in hospital, not including those treated in intensive care units (ICU, specialised wards for the care of critically ill patients). 
Background 
Delirium is an important illness which is common among adults, especially older adults who are in hospital. It is sometimes referred to as an 'acute confusional state'. Typically, a person with delirium has sudden onset of confusion, which fluctuates, and often includes impaired concentration, memory and thinking skills; reduced awareness of surroundings; drowsiness or agitation and restlessness; and hallucinations, which are usually visual (seeing things which are not really there). It can be distressing for the individual with delirium and their family. It is also associated with increased risks of complications, such as dying in hospital, having a longer hospital stay, and requiring more care after discharge. Increasingly, there is evidence that delirium is associated with an increased risk of permanent worsening of memory and thinking skills, including development or worsening of dementia.  
Non‐pharmacological approaches are approaches which do not use medications, but which focus on other aspects of care. They are already recognised as important in reducing the risk of delirium, particularly multicomponent interventions which target several of the common risk factors for delirium. It is not known which components of these complex interventions are most important in preventing delirium and this was something we wanted to find out.  
Study characteristics 
We searched up to 16 September 2020 for reports of studies in which people in hospital were randomly allocated to a non‐pharmacological intervention intended to prevent delirium or to usual hospital care.  We found 22 studies with 5718 participants. Fourteen of the studies were of multicomponent approaches; two studies looked at different cut‐offs for giving a blood transfusion after an orthopaedic operation; the remaining six studies all considered different approaches. 
