The effect of a healthy lifestyle for women with polycystic ovary syndrome
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of lifestyle interventions on reproductive, anthropometric (body measurement), metabolic and quality of life outcomes in women with polycystic ovary syndrome. 
Background 
Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a very common condition affecting 8% to 13% of women. Being overweight worsens all clinical features of PCOS. These clinical features include reproductive issues such as reduced frequency of ovulation and irregular menstrual cycles, reduced fertility, polycystic ovaries on ultrasound and high levels of male hormones such as testosterone, which can cause unwanted facial or body hair growth and acne. PCOS is also associated with metabolic features, with risk factors for diabetes and cardiovascular disease including high levels of insulin or insulin resistance and abnormal cholesterol levels. PCOS affects quality of life and can worsen anxiety and depression either due to its symptoms or due to the diagnosis of a chronic disease. A healthy lifestyle consists of a healthy diet, regular exercise and achieving and maintaining a healthy weight. 
Study characteristics 
We found 15 studies that included 498 participants. Ten studies compared physical activity to minimal dietary and behavioural intervention or no intervention. Five studies compared combined dietary, exercise and behavioural intervention to minimal intervention. One study compared behavioural intervention to minimal intervention. The risk of bias in the studies varied and was generally unclear. The evidence is current to March 2018. 
Key results 
There were no studies that investigated the effect of a healthy lifestyle on live birth, miscarriage or regularity of menstrual cycles. Adopting a healthy lifestyle may result in weight loss or reduction in male hormone levels in some individuals. Diet and exercise may not have an effect on the body's ability to maintain normal blood glucose levels. 
