Client feedback in psychological therapy for children and adolescents with mental health problems 
Why is this review important? 
Systematic feedback from clients to psychotherapists may improve outcomes of psychological therapy. Typically, client feedback is provided regularly throughout the course of therapy. Clients fill in a questionnaire about how they feel about the therapy and how they are feeling in general. The questionnaire is then scored and reviewed by the therapist. The idea is that the therapist will use the feedback to adjust the therapy process, aiming to improve the client‐therapist and client‐therapy fit and, ultimately, client involvement, treatment response and outcomes. There is empirical evidence for the use of client feedback in adult psychotherapy to improve outcomes and response, but there is limited knowledge about this practice in children and adolescents. This review can provide a better understanding of the current role of client feedback in psychotherapy for children and adolescents, as well as future directions that promote evidence‐based practice in child and adolescent psychotherapy. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Psychotherapists working with children and adolescents, policy makers, children and adolescents with mental health problems, and their caregivers and relatives. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Some research suggests that client feedback has a positive impact on outcomes of psychotherapy with adults. We do not know whether client feedback works with children and adolescents. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
To be included in the review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials, where children and adolescents with mental health problems were allocated at random (by chance alone) to receive either psychotherapy with client feedback or standard psychotherapy. We searched electronic databases to find all such trials published up until 3 April 2018, and found six (with a total of 1097 children and adolescents) that met our inclusion criteria. 
