Treatment for neuropathies associated with abnormal antibodies in the blood (IgG and IgA paraproteinaemic neuropathies) 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of treatments for nerve damage associated with abnormal IgG and IgA proteins in the blood? 
Background 
Paraproteinaemic neuropathy refers to those neuropathies associated with a paraprotein (an abnormal antibody or immunoglobulin (Ig) present in relative excess in the blood). Paraproteins come from a group of blood disorders called monoclonal gammopathies. If the paraprotein is present without evidence of any underlying disease, this is known as a monoclonal gammopathy of uncertain significance (MGUS). This review looked at the treatments for neuropathy associated with and possibly caused by IgG and IgA paraproteins. The optimal treatment is not known. Treatments that act on the immune system such as plasma exchange, corticosteroids or intravenous immunoglobulin have been examined in nonrandomised studies of people with IgG and IgA paraproteinaemic neuropathy. 
Study characteristics 
We identified only one randomised controlled trial (RCT), which compared plasma exchange with sham exchange, in 18 participants with either IgA or IgG paraproteinaemic neuropathy. The results were reported after three weeks of treatment. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
The trial did not report our primary outcome measure, which was improvement in disability measured by a validated scale six months after randomisation, or our other specified outcomes at six months. The trial demonstrated a modest benefit in improvement of weakness and overall disability as measured by the neuropathy disability score (NDS) over a period of three weeks. There was no improvement in this timescale in measures of sensory disturbance or electrical studies of the nerves. Adverse events were not reported. Further RCTs of this and other treatments with larger numbers of participants are needed. 
This is an update of a review first published in 2007. We found no additional trials for inclusion. The evidence is current to January 2014. 
