Methods to reduce shoulder pain after gynaecological keyhole surgery
Review question 
Cochrane authors wanted to find out how effective different methods (interventions) are in reducing the amount and severity of shoulder pain following gynaecological keyhole surgery. 
Background 
Gynaecological keyhole surgery (laparoscopy) is a procedure where a surgeon uses a camera (laparoscope) to see inside the lower abdomen to view the uterus (womb), fallopian tubes and ovaries. They can also use special instruments to do tests or treat certain gynaecological conditions. This is a common procedure that about 250,000 women in the UK have each year. Up to 80% of these women may experience shoulder‐tip pain (STP), which may be very painful and lead to longer stays in hospital and even having to go back in to hospital. 
During the laparoscopy, the surgeon puts gas (carbon dioxide) into the patient’s abdomen (pneumoperitoneum). This inflates the abdomen so that the surgeon can see the organs in the abdominal cavity and can carry out surgery. It is possible that inflating the abdomen stimulates a nerve that runs from the top of the abdomen (diaphragm) up to the shoulders and neck, which causes STP. 
We looked at several ways surgeons try to reduce STP: putting local anaesthetic (pain killer) directly into the abdominal cavity or diaphragm; using warmed carbon dioxide, sometimes with moisture added to it (humidified) during surgery; removing gas from the abdominal cavity with drains; replacing gas with fluid (fluid instillation) or forcing gas out of the abdominal cavity at the end of the procedure by increasing the pressure at which patients were made to breathe whilst still under anaesthetic (PRM). 
Study characteristics 
Our evidence comes from 32 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 3284 women from 11 countries. The trials compared different ways of reducing the incidence (number of times STP occurred) or severity of STP in women undergoing gynaecological laparoscopy. The evidence is up to date to 8 August 2018. 
Key results 
Women having gynaecological laparoscopy may have less STP or need fewer pain killers following several interventions: a specific technique for releasing the pneumoperitoneum; leaving fluid or local anaesthetic (liquid pain killers) in the abdomen or putting a drain from the inside to the outside of the abdomen for a period of time. 
There is low to moderate‐quality evidence that the following interventions may not make a difference to the incidence or severity of STP: local anaesthetic (liquid pain killers) placed only in the upper part of the abdomen underneath the diaphragm; warmed and moistened carbon dioxide gas. 
There is low‐quality evidence that gasless laparoscopy may increase the severity of STP, compared with standard treatment. 
Few studies reported side effects (adverse events) and some potentially useful interventions have not been studied by RCTs of gynaecological laparoscopy. 
We are cautious about these results because the evidence from the studies that we found was not good quality (low to moderate‐quality evidence). 
