How effective and safe is a drug called 'isotretinoin', taken via tablet, for acne vulgaris? 
Review question 
How effective and safe is isotretinoin, taken in a tablet for people with acne? We reviewed the evidence about the effect of isotretinoin when compared either to itself at a different dose, to placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), or to other systemic (oral or injected medicines that work throughout the entire body) or topical (applied to the outside of the body) therapies. Eligible participants had to have been diagnosed with acne by a doctor. 
Background 
Acne is a persistent inflammatory disease that can affect more than 80% of teenagers. Acne (including blackheads, whiteheads, and pimples) mostly appears on the face, but can also appear on the back and chest. Mental health problems, depression, and suicidal thoughts have been associated with acne. Isotretinoin, a currently widely used therapy derived from vitamin A, transformed acne treatment. However, it may cause adverse effects and has been associated with still uncertain psychiatric events and inflammatory bowel disease. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature up to July 2017 and included 31 studies, involving 3836 dermatology outpatients worldwide. There were twice as many males than females; their ages ranged from 12 to 55 years old. Acne severity ranged from mild to severe, although most participants had severe acne. 
The pharmaceutical industry funded 12 included studies.
We found studies that compared oral isotretinoin versus placebo or other treatments such as antibiotics. In addition, different doses, regimens (course of medical treatment), or formulations of oral isotretinoin were assessed, as well as oral isotretinoin with the addition of topical agents. 
Key results 
Three studies compared oral isotretinoin versus any oral antibiotic plus any topical agent given to participants with moderate or severe acne for between 20 to 24 weeks. Their outcomes were measured straight after treatment stopped. 
There was no difference between therapies in decreasing the number of inflamed lesions (an area of an organ or tissue that has been damaged by disease or trauma). In one participant, isotretinoin led to the development of Stevens‐Johnson syndrome (a serious disease where skin reacts severely, often in response to medication); there were no serious side effects in the other group. However, we are uncertain of these results because they were based on very low‐quality evidence. 
When assessed by a doctor, the severity of acne may be slightly improved by isotretinoin, but it may cause more side effects such as inflamed lips, dry skin, or nausea (low‐quality evidence). 
Fourteen studies compared different doses/courses of oral isotretinoin between 12 to 32 weeks. Participants had mainly severe or moderate acne. 
Two studies, each comparing three different doses of isotretinoin at 20 weeks, found a greater improvement (measured by inflammatory lesion counts) with the higher dose (low‐quality evidence). A third study showed that continuous (daily) low dose and continuous (daily) conventional dose may improve acne more than intermittent therapy, measured at 24 weeks (low‐quality evidence). Conventional dose isotretinoin reduced inflammatory lesion counts more than low dose, but this was based on very low‐quality evidence, indicating uncertainty. 
