Community mental health teams (CMHTs) for people with severe mental health problems
In the contemporary Western world mental health services are far more likely to be community than hospital based. In the United Kingdom, hospital and hospital‐based out‐patient clinics have been replaced with community mental health treatment teams (CMHTs) whose members are not just psychiatrists, but also nurses, psychologists, occupational therapists and social workers, and who work from a building other than a hospital, usually in a geographically defined area.  
This review aims to compare CMHTs with inpatient care, hospital‐based out‐patient care or day hospital (standard care) for people living in the community with a serious mental health problem. Three randomised control trials were found that fulfilled these criteria.  They included a total of 587 people, took place in urban areas of the UK and lasted from three months to one year. In the two studies that recorded it, a total of 52 people from 253 left the study early, though there was no significant difference in numbers between CMHT and control. Deaths in each study were recorded (suicide, suspicious circumstances and physical ill‐health), and although there were no significant differences between the two groups, those in the CMHT group were consistently lower than in standard care.  People in CMHTs were also significantly less likely to be admitted to hospital during the period of the study, and were less likely to use social services. However, there was no significant difference between the groups in the use of accident and emergency services, general hospital services and primary care (family doctors). One study looked at satisfaction with care and found those in CMHTs were more satisfied with their care than the standard care group. 
In the UK and other Western world countries, the move to CMHT has happened despite the limited evidence given above, therefore improving the evidence base is difficult.  This should be borne in mind when comparing CMHTs with more specialised services such as early intervention or crisis resolution.   
