Cabergoline versus bromocriptine for levodopa‐induced complications in Parkinson's disease 
In the later stages of Parkinson's disease, side effects occur because of the use of levodopa treatment. These consist of involuntary writhing movements (dyskinesia), painful cramps in the legs (dystonia) and a shortened response to each dose referred to as 'end‐of‐dose deterioration' or the 'wearing‐off effect'. Dopamine agonist drugs act by mimicking levodopa in the brain, but they do not cause these long‐term treatment complications when used as initial therapy. For this reason, dopamine agonists have for some years been added once these problems develop in the hope of improving them. Cabergoline is a new dopamine agonist recently licensed in the UK for the treatment of later Parkinson's disease. In this review, we will examine the trials performed with this drug to see how effective it is compared with the older drug bromocriptine and what side effects it causes. 
Cabergoline has been compared with the older agonist bromocriptine in five studies including 1071 patients. Only one of the smaller studies was medium term (36 weeks), the others all being short term (12 ‐15 weeks). The time patients spent in the immobile off state was reduced with both agonists but slightly more by cabergoline compared with bromocriptine. This small advantage of cabergoline did not reach statistical significance. Dyskinesia reported as a side effect was significantly increased with cabergoline compared with bromocriptine. Physical impairment and disability were measured in four of the studies but no statistically significant advantage for cabergoline was found. The number of patients rated as much or very much improved on a clinician's global impression scale was similar with both agonists. Levodopa dose reduction was no different between cabergoline and bromocriptine. There was significantly more confusion with cabergoline. Otherwise, dopaminergic side effects were comparable with these agonists and no significant difference in the withdrawal rate from the trials was found. 
Cabergoline produces similar benefits to bromocriptine in off time reduction, physical impairment and disability ratings, and levodopa dose reduction over the first three months of therapy. The frequency of side effects and withdrawals from treatment were similar with the two agonists apart from increased dyskinesia and confusion with cabergoline. 
