Compression therapy for prevention of post‐thrombotic syndrome
Background 
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) occurs when a blood clot blocks blood flow through a vein. One in every three people with DVT will develop chronic pain, swelling, and skin changes in the legs, called post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS). Compression therapy with, for example, elastic compression stockings is used to try to reduce swelling and improve blood flow in the veins of the leg. People with DVT can reduce the chance of developing PTS by wearing elastic compression stockings. Our objective was to determine effectiveness and rate of complications when compression therapy is used in people with DVT for prevention of PTS. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We identified 10 randomised controlled trials with a total of 2361 participants that evaluated compression therapy (current until March 2017). We combined five trials to assess our main outcome ‐ PTS. We found that people with DVT who wear elastic compression stockings are less likely to develop PTS, and that compression did not lead to reduced incidence of severe PTS. We found no clear differences in occurrence of pulmonary embolism (blockage of the artery in the lung) nor in reports of recurrent DVT. Compression in the acute phase of DVT compared with "no compression" treatment did not significantly lower PTS incidence. Thigh‐length stockings did not provide better protection against development of PTS than knee‐length stockings. One trial reported that wearing compression stockings for two years seemed to be superior to wearing them for one year in terms of PTS incidence. Compression treatment did not seem to improve quality of life, except during the first nine days after DVT, but we could draw no real conclusions regarding this outcome. Side effects included itching, erythema, and other forms of allergic reaction. The study investigators reported no serious adverse events and indicated that compliance with use of compression stockings was generally high but varied across studies. 
Quality of the evidence 
Although studies show a reduction in the number of people developing PTS, the quality of evidence is low because of considerable differences between studies and lack of or unclear risk of blinding due to clinical assessment scores. Overall, the included studies were of poor methodological quality. 
