Narrow‐band ultraviolet B phototherapy versus broad‐band ultraviolet B or psoralen ultraviolet A photochemotherapy for treating psoriasis 
Psoriasis is a common, chronic inflammatory skin disease, with an estimated global prevalence ranging from 0.5% to 4.6%. Based on clinical features, psoriasis is generally divided into the following: chronic plaque psoriasis (CPP); psoriasis associated with psoriatic arthritis; and pustular, erythrodermic, or guttate psoriasis. We also considered psoriasis affecting the palms and soles (palmoplantar psoriasis, or PPP). Although psoriasis is rarely life‐threatening, it can affect a person's quality of life significantly. 
Phototherapy is an essential treatment option for people with psoriasis. The most commonly used types of phototherapy are narrow‐band ultraviolet B (NB‐UVB), broad‐band ultraviolet B (BB‐UVB), and psoralen ultraviolet A photochemotherapy (PUVA). PUVA can be further divided into oral, bath, and topical PUVA according to the administrative route of psoralen. NB‐UVB delivers almost exclusively 311 nm radiation, whereas BB‐UVB can be divided into two types: selective BB‐UVB (305 to 325 nm radiation) and conventional BB‐UVB (280 to 320 nm radiation). 
This review included 13 small randomised controlled trials (RCT), with a total of 662 participants. Most of these were of poor methodological quality. 
For treating CPP, the clearance rate between the NB‐UVB and oral PUVA groups were inconsistent in three RCTs. In one, there was no difference between the groups, and in the other two, the clearance rate was in favour of oral PUVA. The evidence from the comparison of NB‐UVB with bath PUVA in terms of clearance rate was also inconsistent: Pooled data from two left‐right body comparison RCTs found no significant difference between the two groups, while another RCT favoured bath PUVA. 
Two RCTs found NB‐UVB plus retinoid (re‐NB‐UVB) and PUVA plus retinoid (re‐PUVA) had similar effects for treating people with CPP or guttate psoriasis. One RCT found no significant differences between NB‐UVB and selective BB‐UVB for clearing CPP or in the number of withdrawals due to side‐effects. 
