Antibiotic therapy for the treatment of infective endocarditis
Review question 
We aimed to assess the existing evidence about the clinical benefits and harms of different antibiotics regimens used to treat people with infective endocarditis. 
Background 
Infective endocarditis is an infection of the inner lining of the heart. It is a serious infection that is frequently fatal, and cardiac surgery is often required. Antibiotics are medicines that treat infections and are the cornerstone of treatment for infective endocarditis. Treatment of patients with infective endocarditis is nosocomial (in‐hospital). Despite this, there are surprising differences between guidelines in their recommendations for antibiotic therapy. Furthermore, due to the dose and length of time that antibiotics must be given for, the antibiotics can have serious side effects, such as kidney and ear damage, and cause allergic reactions. 
Study characteristics 
We identified only six randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) that compared different antibiotic regimens, which included a limited number of participants. Each trial investigated different types and doses of antibiotics. The included studies were published between 1998 and 2019 and were conducted in the USA, Spain, Finland, and Denmark. The evidence is up‐to‐date as of 6 January 2020. 
Key results 
This first update confirms the findings of the original version of the review. Limited and low to very low‐quality evidence suggests that the comparative effects of different antibiotic regimens in terms of cure rates or other relevant clinical outcomes are uncertain. The conclusions of this updated Cochrane Review were based on few randomised controlled trials with a high risk of bias. Accordingly, the current evidence does not support or reject any regimen of antibiotic therapy for the treatment of infective endocarditis. 
Quality of evidence 
The confidence in the results of this review is low to very low. The included studies had limitations in the way they were designed and performed, and three studies were sponsored by the manufacturer of the medicine that was assessed. Moreover, the limited number of people included in the studies led to uncertain results. Larger studies are required to provide more information about the best antibiotic regimens to treat people with infective endocarditis. 
