How does changing pressure in continuous positive airway pressure machines increase their usage by adults with sleep apnoea? 
What is the aim of this review? 
This review looks at different ways of helping people who have obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) to use continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) machines. OSA refers to the temporary but frequent closing and opening of the throat during sleep. Because adults with OSA do not get the sleep that they need, they can feel tired in the day and this impacts on their quality of life. They are at risk of falling asleep while carrying out their daily activities and they are at risk of having heart disease or a stroke in the long term. 
Key messages 
Adults who use CPAP devices that automatically vary treatment pressure probably increase use of their machines by about 13 minutes per night but it is unlikely that they will feel less tired compared with people who use fixed pressure CPAP machines. Fixed pressure CPAP is slightly better at reducing the number of episodes where the airway closes at night. We need more information to be able to assess whether there are important differences between these machines on quality of life and tolerability. 
What was studied in this review? 
CPAP machines are worn over the nose and mouth as people sleep at night. They blow air at a fixed pressure through the nose and mouth to keep the airway open. This makes refreshing sleep easier to achieve, but some people find the machines difficult to use regularly. They can find the level of pressure too high or they have a dry mouth when they wake up. If the pressure needed to keep the airway open is lower, the machines could be easier to use more often. 
We looked for studies that compared different ways of varying the way that pressure is delivered. We have focused on studies that compared CPAP machines that automatically vary treatment pressure as the person sleeps (e.g. auto‐CPAP) with machines that deliver pressure at the same level throughout the night (fixed pressure CPAP). 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 64 studies in 3922 people. Thirty‐six studies in 2135 people were relevant to the comparison of auto‐CPAP and fixed pressure CPAP. The studies were from Europe, USA, Hong Kong and Australia. Seventy‐five per cent of people recruited to the studies were men who were recently diagnosed with sleep apnoea and had no experience of using CPAP. 
Compared with fixed pressure CPAP, people starting treatment with auto‐CPAP will probably use their machine by about 13 minutes more per night at around six weeks (moderate‐certainty evidence), although when we looked at the number of people who use the machines for more than four hours per night, we did not have enough information to know whether there was a difference between the different machines (low‐certainty evidence). 
