Treatment of follicular lymphoma
Follicular lymphoma is a malignancy of the lymphatic system and a common type of non‐Hodgkin lymphoma. Follicular lymphoma arises from B‐cells, mainly affects older adults and because of its slow growth it is called an indolent lymphoma. Follicular lymphoma grows unnoticed for a long time and is recognised by lymph node enlargement, fever, weight loss, sweating or fatigue. It is called follicular lymphoma because affected lymph nodes show rounded structures called "follicles". Using computer tomography scans, bone marrow biopsy and blood tests, follicular lymphoma is classified into the early Ann Arbor stages I and II or the advanced Ann Arbor stages III or IV, which are diagnosed in the majority of patients. Prognosis and therapy are related to the extent of the disease at initial diagnosis. The small number of patients in stages I or II may be cured by radiotherapy. In advanced stages III or IV, patients are regarded as incurable. Chemotherapy plus the monoclonal antibody rituximab is considered as current treatment strategy for symptomatic patients in advanced stages. Positive effects of high‐dose therapy with transplantation of patients' own stem cells (autologous) are known for patients in advanced stages, especially for the endpoint progression‐free survival. However, this treatment option could have comparatively more treatment‐related late side effects than chemotherapy, including secondary malignancies. 
With this assumption, we assessed the role of high‐dose therapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation in the treatment of follicular lymphoma in adults. We included five trials with 1093 patients in the main analyses. As a result, the meta‐analyses for previously untreated patients (four trials) show no statistical significant differences in terms of survival, treatment‐related mortality or secondary malignancies between the patients treated with high‐dose therapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation and those treated with chemotherapy only. However, progression‐free survival (tumour control), was significantly improved by the high‐dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation. Adverse events are more common in patients treated with high‐dose therapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation. 
There is an advantage of the high‐dose chemotherapy and stem cell transplantation for patients with a relapse of the disease, both in survival and in tumour control (one trial). No data on adverse events are reported in this trial. 
