Manual lymphatic drainage for lymphedema following breast cancer treatment
Background 
More than one in five of breast cancer patients will develop breast cancer‐related lymphedema (BCRL). BCRL is a swelling that can occur in the arm, breast, or chest wall as a result of breast cancer surgery and/or radiation therapy. BCRL can negatively impact comfort, function, and quality of life 
Manual lymphatic drainage (MLD) is a hands‐on therapy that is commonly used for BCRL and often as part of complex decongestive therapy (CDT). CDT consists of MLD, compression bandaging, lymph‐reducing exercises (LREs), and skin care. 
The Review Questions 
Is MLD safe and effective in treating BCRL?
Study Characteristics 
We found six trials published through May, 2013, totaling 208 participants.
Key Results 
When women were treated with a course of intensive compression bandaging, their swelling went down about 30% to 37%. When MLD was added to the intensive course of compression bandaging, their swelling went down another 7.11%. Thus, MLD may offer benefit when added to compression bandaging. 
Examining this finding more closely showed that this significant reduction benefit was observed in people with mild‐to‐moderate lymphedema when compared to participants with moderate‐to‐severe lymphedema. Thus, our findings suggest that individuals with mild‐to‐moderate BCRL are the ones who may benefit from adding MLD to an intensive course of treatment with compression bandaging. This finding, however, needs to be confirmed by further research. 
When women were given a standard elastic compression sleeve plus MLD and compared to women who received a standard compression sleeve plus a nonMLD treatment, results were mixed (sometimes favoring MLD and sometimes favoring neither treatment.) 
One‐year follow‐up suggests that once swelling had been reduced, participants were likely to keep their swelling down if they continued to use a custom‐made sleeve. 
MLD is safe and well tolerated.
Findings were contradictory for function (range of motion), with one trial showing benefit and the other not. Two trials measured quality of life, but neither trial presented results comparing the treatment group to the control, so findings are inconclusive. 
No trial measured cost of care.
Quality of the Evidence 
Trials were small ranging from 24 to 45 participants. Most trials appeared to randomize participants adequately. However, in four trials the person measuring the swelling knew what treatment the participants were receiving, and this could have biased results. 
