Cognitive training interventions for dementia and mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease 
Review question 
We wanted to know whether cognitive training interventions are effective in improving cognition (thinking) in people with Parkinson's disease dementia or mild cognitive impairment. 
Background 
Approximately 60% to 80% of people with Parkinson's disease (PD) develop some degree of cognitive impairment, meaning that they may have difficulties with thinking and reasoning, memory, language, or perception. If these difficulties are severe enough to affect the person's ability to carry out daily activities, then the person is said to have Parkinson's disease dementia (PDD). If someone has cognitive problems but their daily activities are not significantly affected, then he or she is said to have mild cognitive impairment in Parkinson's disease (PD‐MCI). Cognitive training involves practising cognitive skills such as memory, attention, and language through specific tasks. It may be able to help people with PDD or PD‐MCI maintain better cognitive skills. 
What we did 
This review examined whether cognitive training is effective in improving outcomes such as overall cognitive skills ('global cognition'), memory, attention, or ability to carry out daily activities in people with PD and either dementia or MCI. We searched the medical literature for research studies that compared people receiving a cognitive training intervention to those not receiving the intervention (a 'control group'). We only included studies in which the decision about whether or not someone received the cognitive training intervention was made randomly; such studies are called randomised controlled clinical trials and are considered to be the fairest method to test whether or not a treatment is effective. We did not examine other types of studies. 
What we found 
We found seven studies that randomly allocated a total of 225 participants to cognitive training or to a control group. Treatment lasted from four to eight weeks. All the cognitive training interventions were delivered by computer. The control groups received either no intervention or a control intervention such as language or motor exercises or participation in recreational activities. We found no difference between people who received cognitive training and people in the control groups in global cognition shortly after treatment ended. There was no convincing evidence of benefit in specific cognitive skills and no benefit shown in activities of daily living or quality of life. However, these findings were based on a small number of participants in a small number of studies. The overall certainty of the evidence was low, meaning that the results of further research could differ from the results of this review. 
