The effects of perfusing the pulmonary circuit during open heart surgery in adults
Review question 
During open heart surgery, the heart‐lung machine temporarily takes over the function of the heart and lungs. During extracorporeal circulation (ECC), only the systemic circuit is perfused with oxygenated blood with no blood supply to the lungs. This systematic review assesses the beneficial and harmful effects of additional perfusion of the pulmonary circuit with blood or a preservation solution compared with no blood supply to the lungs during ECC in adults undergoing open heart surgery. We report numbers of deaths, serious adverse events, and pulmonary events (for this version of the review, mechanical ventilation and oxygenation after surgery). 
Background 
Pulmonary complications are often seen after open heart surgery with ECC when insufficient perfusion of the lungs leads to reduced tissue oxygenation. Previous trials have led to different conclusions on whether additional perfusion of the pulmonary circuit during ECC may decrease or increase risks of death, serious adverse events, and pulmonary events. This systematic review follows the Cochrane method for systematic reviews to access evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs). 
We identified four RCTs (210 participants) reporting on risk of death and mechanical ventilation time. Three trials reported on serious adverse events and oxygenation after surgery. All trials were conducted without direct industry funding. The number of participants in each trial ranged from 30 to 89. The mean age of participants was 59 years (range 37 to 70 years), and 65% were women. Types of surgery included coronary artery bypass graft and valve replacement surgery. Only one trial included the intervention pulmonary perfusion with a preservation solution. Therefore, in this version of the review, we report only results of the intervention pulmonary perfusion with blood compared with no perfusion during ECC. 
Key results 
Pulmonary perfusion with blood during cardiopulmonary bypass was not associated with increased risk of death nor with decreased serious adverse events and mechanical ventilation time. Trial results do not prove that a higher oxygenation value after surgery was beneficial or harmful for pulmonary perfusion with blood during ECC. 
Quality and quantity of the evidence 
Only one of the included trials had low risk of bias (except for blinding of personnel during the surgical procedure). Trials randomly assigned 210 participants, and the number of participants required to detect or reject a 100% risk ratio reduction in deaths was not reached; therefore observed results are uncertain. Overall the quality of evidence is low. 
