Identification of nerves using an electrode compared with visual nerve identification for adults undergoing thyroid surgery 
Review question 
To assess the effects of intraoperative neuromonitoring compared with visual nerve identification for the prevention of recurrent laryngeal nerve injury during thyroid surgery in adults. 
Background 
Thyroidectomy is an operation that removes a part or all of the thyroid gland to cure benign disorders (for example multinodular goitre), or cancer. The recurrent laryngeal nerves are responsible for the movement of the vocal cords and they can easily be injured during thyroid surgery, resulting in one‐sided or two‐sided vocal cord paralysis leading to difficulty in speaking (dysphonia), breathing problems, or both. This, in turn may result in decreased health‐related quality of life and may lead to permanent disability. Visual identification of recurrent laryngeal nerves during surgery has long been a standard procedure to prevent their injury. Recently, intraoperative neuromonitoring, which identifies nerves using an electrode, has been introduced to help the surgeon find and protect the recurrent laryngeal nerves. 
Trial characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (trials where the participants are randomly allocated to one, two, or more treatment arms), comparing intraoperative neuromonitoring plus visual nerve identification with visual nerve identification alone. We included only trials that reported data on participants older than 18 years who underwent thyroid surgery. We excluded trials with participants with previous neck surgery or repeated laryngeal nerve paralysis. We included five trials with a total of 1558 participants; 781 participants were allocated to intraoperative neuromonitoring and 777 participants were allocated to visual nerve identification only. Two trials took place in Poland and one study each in Turkey, China and Korea. The average age of participants ranged between 41.7 years and 51.9 years. 
This evidence is up to date as of 21 August 2018.
Key results 
There was no firm evidence of an advantage or disadvantage comparing intraoperative neuromonitoring with visual nerve identification only for permanent or temporary recurrent laryngeal nerve paralysis, side effects and the time the operation lasted. Three of five included trials had data on all‐cause mortality and reported no deaths. None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life or socioeconomic effects (for example costs related to hospital stay). We need well‐designed, executed, analysed and reported trials, with a larger number of participants and longer observation periods after surgery, using the latest intraoperative neuromonitoring technology and applying new surgical techniques. 
