Negative pressure wound therapy for open traumatic wounds
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) (a sealed wound dressing connected to a vacuum pump that sucks up fluid from the wound) is effective for treating open traumatic wounds (injuries such as animal bites, bullet wounds or fractures that result in bone piercing the skin to form open wounds). Researchers from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question and found seven relevant studies. 
Key messages 
We cannot be certain whether NPWT is effective for treating traumatic wounds. We are moderately confident that there is no clear difference in healing rates in open fracture wounds treated with NPWT compared with standard care. We are very uncertain whether people treated with NPWT experience fewer wound infections compared with those treated with standard care. There is moderate‐certainty evidence that NPWT is not a cost‐effective treatment for open fracture wounds. 
What was studied in the review? 
Traumatic wounds are open cuts, scrapes or puncture wounds, where both the skin and underlying tissues are damaged. These wounds may have jagged edges and contain items such as gravel or glass. Injuries caused by road traffic accidents, stab and gunshot wounds, and animal bites are common types of traumatic wound. 
NPWT is a treatment that is used widely on different types of wounds. In NPWT, a machine that exerts carefully controlled vacuum suction (negative pressure) is attached to a wound dressing that covers the wound. Wound and tissue fluid is sucked away from the treated area into a canister. This is thought to increase blood flow and improve wound healing. 
We wanted to find out if NPWT could help open traumatic wounds to heal more quickly and effectively. We wanted to know if people treated with NPWT experienced any side effects or other complications, such as wound infections and pain. We were also interested in the impact of NPWT on people's quality of life. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found seven relevant studies, dating from 2008‐2017, which compared the effect of different strengths of NPWT with standard wound care. The studies involved a total of 1381 participants aged 12 years and over. The participants' sex was not recorded. Not all the studies stated how they were funded. One was funded by an NPWT manufacturer. 
There is no clear difference in healing rates in participants with open fracture wounds treated with NPWT compared with those receiving standard care. There is moderate‐certainty evidence that NPWT is not a cost‐effective treatment for open fracture wounds. We are very uncertain as to whether NPWT may reduce the likelihood of wound infection compared with standard care. There is no clear evidence that NPWT impacts on people's experience of pain, adverse events or their experience of receiving therapy. 
How up to date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to June 2018.
