What are the benefits and risks of anti‐cytokine medicines for ANCA‐associated vasculitis?
Why this question is important 
The body’s defence (immune) system fights injury or infection by sending white blood cells to surround and protect the affected area. This causes redness and swelling, called inflammation. 
Vasculitis is an inflammation of the blood vessels. In vasculitis, instead of reacting to harm, the immune system attacks healthy blood vessels. The reason for this reaction is often unknown. 
One rare type of vasculitis is antineutrophil cytoplasmic antibody (ANCA)‐associated vasculitis (AAV). AAV covers three different conditions that are grouped together because they all affect small blood vessels: 
‐ MPA: microscopic polyangiitis;
‐ GPA: granulomatosis with polyangiitis; and
‐ EPGA: eosinophilic granulomatosis with polyangiitis.
The areas of the body most commonly affected are kidneys, lungs, joints, ears, nose and nerves. It is important to treat AAV early, to prevent serious damage to these organs. 
Currently, the recommended treatment for AAV is to use medicines that control the immune system and medicines against inflammation (steroids). However, this treatment causes serious unwanted effects. Medicines that target cytokines (small molecules that influence the immune system’s reactions) are an alternative option. To evaluate the benefits and risks of anti‐cytokine medicines, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. 
How we identified and assessed the evidence 
First, we searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. We considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorized the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What we found 
We found four studies on a total of 440 adults from the USA and Europe. The average age of people ranged between 48 and 56 years. They received treatment for between 2 and 25 months, and were then followed for between 8 weeks and four years. Three studies compared anti‐cytokine medicines (mepolizumab, belimumab and etanercept) to a placebo (fake medicine) and one study compared two different anti‐cytokine medicines (rituximab versus infliximab). Three studies received at least partial funding from pharmaceutical companies. 
