Fetal movement counting for assessment of fetal wellbeing
Not enough evidence on counting the baby's movements in the womb to check for wellbeing.
Mothers can usually feel their babies moving in their wombs from around 16 to 20 weeks. Babies' activities in the womb can vary considerably, some being very active and some not so active. A decrease in a baby's normal pattern of movements may be a sign that the baby is struggling for some reason and it might be better for the baby to be born early. Hence, it has been suggested that if the mother counts her babies' movements each day, and there are several ways of doing this, she may be able to identify a decrease in her baby's normal movement patterns. It is further suggested that if the mother informs caregivers of this, then the caregivers can do additional tests and some babies can be prevented from dying before birth. However, sometimes fetal movement‐counting tests can cause considerable anxiety for women and may not be easy for some women especially when a mother is busy at work or caring for other small children, so it is important to assess if these tests are helpful in identifying babies in difficulty with time then to intervene. 
The review of trials found five studies, involving 71,458 women, comparing two fetal movement counting methods, fetal movement counting versus hormonal analysis and routine fetal movement counting compared with standard antenatal care, as defined by trial authors. In studies that compared routine counting of baby's movements in the womb with mixed or undefined counting, there was no difference in stillbirths, caesarean sections, birth weight less than 10th centile and mother‐baby attachment; there was reduction in women's anxiety in the group counting the baby's movements. There was a tendency to more antenatal admissions. When counting of baby's movement was compared with hormonal analysis, there were fewer hospital visits among women who were counting and fewer babies in the hormonal analysis group had low Apgar scores, which assess the baby's condition after birth. There was no difference between the groups in terms of caesarean sections done and other outcomes. 'Perinatal death or severe morbidity' was not reported. When different types of fetal movement counting methods (once a day compared to more than once a day) were compared, women were more compliant in using the once a day counting method, citing less interruption with daily activities as one of the reasons; the incidence of caesarean section did not differ and perinatal death or severe illness was not reported. The numbers and the methodological quality of studies were insufficient to assess stillbirths accurately. Further trials are suggested, and it would be very important to assess women's anxiety and views in addition to the ability of the counting to prevent stillbirths. 
