Treatment for mitochondrial disorders
Mitochondria are found within every human cell and are responsible for the majority of each cell's energy production. When the mitochondria do not function properly, they cause diseases affecting many of the body's organs. Usually, these are the organs with the highest energy needs, such as muscle, brain, the eyes, and heart, although these diseases are highly variable. As a group these conditions are referred to as mitochondrial disorders, and they can cause significant disability or early death. We conducted this review of treatment for mitochondrial disorders to determine whether any available treatments are effective. We identified 12 randomised controlled trials that were of high enough quality to be included in the review. Of these, eight were new studies that had been published since the previous version of this review. Two studies which were included in the previous version of this review were excluded because of a high risk that the study results may be biased. 
The included studies are not easily comparable because of differences in the treatment being studied, the dosage of these treatments, the length of study (and other differences in the study methods), and differences in the types of participants included for the research. The studies were generally well designed in order to reduce the possibility of bias, although for most studies the methods describing how participants were randomised were not described in detail. Otherwise, the risk of bias was low for most studies in the other categories. Serious side effects of treatment were uncommon, except for nerve damage in a long‐term trial of dichloroacetate in adults. 
One trial studied high‐dose coenzyme Q10 treatment. This treatment had no clinical benefit. Three trials used creatine monohydrate: one trial reported improved muscle strength and biochemical measurements, but the other two trials reported no benefit (total of 38 participants). One trial studied the effects of a combination of coenzyme Q10, creatine monohydrate and lipoic acid, and reported a statistically significant improvement in biochemical measurements and ankle strength, but no clinical improvement (16 participants). Five trials studied the effects of dichloroacetate: three trials in children showed a statistically significant improvement in biochemical measurements but no clinical benefit on physiological measurements and exercise tests (total 63 participants); one trial of short‐term therapy in adults demonstrated no clinical improvement in physiological measurements (total eight participants), and one longer‐term trial in adults was terminated prematurely due to adverse effects without clinical benefit (using a combined scale of treatment effect, in 30 participants). One trial using dimethylglycine showed no significant effect on biochemical markers in five participants. One trial using a whey‐based supplement demonstrated statistically significant improvement in biochemical markers but no clinical benefit in muscle strength or on health questionnaires (13 participants). 
Further randomised controlled trials of high quality are needed. They should strictly address outcomes which are relevant to patient care and quality of life, and study these in particular subtypes of mitochondrial disease at a time. The current repertoire of nutritional supplements have been not shown to be effective and future trials should study new treatments. 
