Antiviral treatment for chronic hepatitis C in patients with HIV infection
End‐stage liver disease due to chronic hepatitis C is the leading cause of death among patients with stable HIV. The recommended treatment for chronic hepatitis C among patients without HIV is peginterferon plus ribavirin. Based on evidence from trials on HIV‐negative patients with hepatitis C, the viral genotype, dose of treatment and duration of therapy may affect the treatment response. This review is the first to evaluate the antiviral effect of peginterferon, ribavirin or amantadine administered in different combinations for a patient group, which has not previously been treated for hepatitis C. A total of 14 randomised clinical trials with at total of 2269 patients have been included in this review.The present review suggests that peginterferon plus ribavirin may also be considered if patients have HIV. The dose of peginterferon was similar to that assessed in trials on patients without HIV (180 microgram or 1.5 microgram/kg once weekly), but the dose of ribavirin was somewhat lower in most trials (800 mg daily). There were considerable differences between the trials possibly related to the dose and duration of treatment or the proportion of patients with different hepatitis C virus genotypes. The benefit of treatment was seen when assessing the proportion of patients with a sustained loss of the hepatitis C virus from the blood and the proportion with improved liver biopsies. No significant differences were seen in clinical outcome measures, including mortality (1%, irrespective of treatment). There were several adverse events. Fatal lactic acidosis and liver failure occurred. Other adverse events included anaemia and flu‐like symptoms that occurred more frequently among patients receiving peginterferon plus ribavirin. No significant differences were seen regarding the risk of depression, mortality, and progression to cirrhosis or to AIDS. Additional randomised trials are necessary to assess the effect in HIV and HCV co‐infected patients of peginterferon plus ribavirin in relation to the duration of therapy, especially in patients with hepatitis C genotype 2 or 3. Additional trials comparing peginterferon plus ribavirin versus interferon plus ribavirin or peginterferon alone do not seem warranted. 
