Comparing supplemental oxygen with room air for low‐risk pregnant women undergoing an elective caesarean section under regional anaesthesia 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of giving extra oxygen to pregnant women during planned caesarean section under epidural or spinal anaesthesia. (Epidural anaesthesia is when a drug is injected into the epidural space of the spinal cord; spinal anaesthesia is when a local anaesthetic is injected into the subarachnoid space). 
Background 
Oxygen was routinely given to pregnant women to provide an extra supply for the foetus in order for the foetus to cope with any unplanned loss of oxygen during or after the birth. Previous studies have shown that giving extra oxygen provided better oxygenation for the mother and foetus in terms of oxygen saturation (a measure of how much oxygen the blood is carrying), PaO2 (oxygen pressure in the blood) and pH (a measure of acidity or alkalinity). However, clear evidence of foetal clinical outcomes have not been obtained. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to November 2014.We reran the search in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE in February 2016. We found one potential new study of interest which was added to the list of ‘Studies awaiting Classification'. This study will be incorporated into the formal review findings when we next update the review. 
Study characteristics 
This updated Cochrane review included 11 studies involving 753 participants. The studies compared maternal (mother) and neonatal (foetal) outcomes when pregnant women received extra oxygen versus room air. Oxygen was given to the women in different ways (at any flow rate or concentration via any oxygen delivery device). 
Results 
Overall, the results of this updated review reach the same conclusions as the original published review. None of the 11 included trials reported maternal desaturation. No differences were noted in routine measures of foetal wellbeing (Apgar scores) when mothers who received extra oxygen were compared with those who did not. The pregnant women receiving extra oxygen in comparison with room air had significantly higher oxygen saturation (three trials) and partial pressure of oxygen in arterial blood (five trials), as well as a significantly higher partial pressure of oxygen in both the umbilical artery and the umbilical vein (eight and 11 trials, respectively). Two trials reported higher markers of free radicals (perhaps indicating stress from excess oxygen) in mothers and foetuses when extra oxygen was given, but this is of no clinical significance Overall, we found no convincing evidence that giving oxygen in this situation is either beneficial or harmful for either the mother or the foetus. 
