Presurgery exercise‐based conditioning interventions (prehabilitation) in adults with peripheral arterial disease, having leg surgery 
Background 
Lower limb peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a type of cardiovascular disease where the blood vessels that carry the blood to the legs are hardened and narrowed. Its most severe state (critical limb ischaemia (CLI)), results in symptoms of pain when resting, non‐healing wounds and ulceration, gangrene or both. PAD affects more than 200 million people worldwide and approximately 3% to 5% of people aged above 40 have PAD, rising to 18% in people above 70 years of age. Of those who show symptoms of PAD, between 5% and 10% will progress to CLI over a five‐year period. Of those with PAD with no symptoms, 7% will go on to develop symptoms of cramping in the legs when walking and of these patients, 21% will progress to CLI within five years. The treatment options include using a balloon or stent (a device that sits in the artery) to open it up and allow the blood to flow (angioplasty), taking a vein from the opposite leg or arm and attaching it to the artery above and below the blocked artery (bypass), or removal of the limb (amputation), when the life of the patient is at risk due to infection. People with CLI have a high risk of death and worsening health. 
Despite recent advances in surgical technology, anaesthesia, and care during and after surgery, a number of surgical patients have a poor recovery. Presurgery conditioning (prehabilitation) is carried out prior to surgery and includes exercise with a nutritional or psychological intervention or both. Exercise consists of aerobic training, such as walking, running or swimming (ideally three to five times a week) and training to build muscle and strength, using weights or resistance bands (ideally two times a week). The nutritional intervention includes eating or drinking a protein supplement daily, after training or with meals, to improve the effects of any training. Psychological interventions may include breathing exercises, meditation, mindfulness, coping techniques or cognitive behavioural therapy, with an aim to reduce the anxiety of having surgery. 
