Do electronic or robotic gait‐training devices help people walk better after a stroke?
Key messages 
Electronic and robotic devices plus physiotherapy help people walk independently again after a stroke. They may particularly benefit people in the first three months after a stroke, as well as people who are unable to walk. 
We need more research to find out how often, and for how long, these devices should be used. 
What is a stroke? 
A stroke happens when the flow of blood to part of the brain is cut off, blocking the supply of oxygen and nutrients to brain cells. This causes a sudden attack of weakness that usually affects one side of the body. If the supply of blood to the brain is stopped, brain cells begin to die. This can lead to brain injury, disability, and possibly death. 
People who survive a stroke are often left with long‐term problems caused by injury to their brain. They may find physical activities, such as walking, difficult because of weakened leg muscles on one side of their body, stiff joints, or lack of co‐ordination. People may need a long period of rehabilitation, including physiotherapy, before they can recover their former independence. Physiotherapy includes exercise, massage, skills training, and electrical treatment to help people re‐gain movement. 
Walking after a stroke 
Improving walking is one of the main goals of rehabilitation after a stroke. Robotic devices (programmed to move and perform certain tasks automatically) and electrically operated mechanical (electromechanical) devices have been developed to help people improve their gait (the way they walk). People having difficulty walking need lots of walking practice. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
Gait‐training devices allow people who can't walk to have intensive walking practice, without the need for a lot of physical support from their therapist as they practice walking. 
We wanted to find out if gait‐training devices could help people improve their walking after a stroke. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the use of gait‐training devices to help people learn to walk again after a stroke. We were interested in: 
