Ambient air quality – what works to reduce pollution and improve health?
Why did we conduct this review? 
Globally, outdoor air pollution is a serious public health problem. In 2016, approximately 4 million deaths were attributable to air pollution, mostly from cardiovascular and respiratory diseases. Air pollution has also been linked to other health problems, like asthma. It is of much concern both in low‐ and middle‐income countries, where air quality may still be worsening, as well as in high‐income countries, where pollution levels have decreased over several decades. 
Many different policies and programmes have been put into place to reduce air pollution; examples include vehicle restrictions to reduce traffic, fuel standards for cars, buses and other motorized transport, industrial regulations to limit pollution from factories, and the replacement of inefficient heating stoves with more efficient, cleaner burning stoves. So far, no review has investigated systematically whether these measures have impacted air pollution and health as intended. 
What is the aim of this review? 
We investigated whether measures put into place to reduce outdoor air pollution have actually reduced air pollution and improved health. 
What were the main results of this review? 
We found 42 studies evaluating a broad range of measures to reduce air pollution in different countries around the world, although most were from high‐income countries. Most aimed to reduce air pollution from cars and other vehicles. However, we also identified measures addressing heating and cooking, industry, or a combination of different sources. 
We wanted to know whether these measures led to a reduction in the overall number of deaths, and in the number of deaths from cardiovascular and respiratory causes. We also investigated whether the measures led to fewer people going to hospitals for cardiovascular and respiratory problems. We also examined whether there were any changes in outdoor air quality, looking at different pollutants, such as particulate matter, fine particulate matter and other criteria pollutants. 
Studies were very diverse with respect to the policies or programmes they assessed, the settings and contexts in which they were implemented, and the methods used to evaluate them. 
