Regular painkillers in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Background 
About 10% to 15% of the adult western population have gallstones. Between 1% and 4% become symptomatic each year. Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the mainstay treatment for symptomatic gallstones. More than half a million cholecystectomies are performed per year in the US alone. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of gallbladder through a keyhole, also known as port) is now the preferred method of cholecystectomy. 
Laparoscopic surgery is associated with less pain than open surgery for removal of the gallbladder but postoperative pain is one the major reasons for delayed hospital discharge after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Administration of painkillers may be an effective way of decreasing the pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The different types of painkillers include those that decrease the inflammation (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs or NSAIDS), which include drugs that are available over‐the‐counter such as paracetamol and ibuprofen and other drugs that are not available over‐the‐counter such as diclofenac; opium‐like painkillers such as codeine and morphine, and some painkillers that are used to treat fits but also possess the ability to decrease the pain such as gabapentin and pregabalin. The last two classes of drugs are available only as prescription drugs except for low dose codeine in some countries. The benefits and harms of giving painkillers on a regular basis in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy is unknown. We sought to answer these questions by reviewing the medical literature and obtaining information from randomised clinical trials for benefits (where people are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) and comparative non‐randomised studies for treatment‐related harms. We compared the regular use of painkillers with no regular use of painkillers (ie, painkillers were administered as and when required) and the different type of painkillers. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 25 randomised clinical trials involving 2505 people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. Most participants in the trials were low anaesthetic risk people undergoing planned laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The choice of whether the participants received the different painkillers (or not) was determined by a method similar to the toss of coin so that the treatments compared were conducted in people who were as similar as possible. The treatments in all the included trials were aimed at decreasing the pain after laparoscopic cholecystectomy before the participants reported pain. Participants were allowed to take additional painkillers as required in most of the trials. 
Key results 
There were no deaths in either group in three trials (183 participants) that reported deaths. The differences in the serious complications between the groups was imprecise in all the comparisons. None of the trials reported quality of life or the time taken to return to normal activity. The differences in length of hospital stay and the time taken to return to work was imprecise in all the comparisons that reported these. Pain was lower in the participants who received painkillers compared with those who received controls at 4 to 8 hours and at 9 to 24 hours as measured by the visual analogue scale (a chart that rates the amount of pain on a scale of 1 to 10). This is a modest reduction and is comparable to other methods of pain reduction such as administering local anaesthetics (drugs that numb part of the body, similar to the ones used by the dentist to prevent the people from feeling pain) during the operation. In summary, different painkillers reduce pain scores in low anaesthetic risk people undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However, the decision to use these drugs has to weigh the clinically small reduction in pain against uncertain evidence of serious adverse events associated with many of these agents. 
