Treatment of dental complications in sickle cell disease
Review question 
We planned to review the evidence regarding the treatment of dental complications in people with sickle cell disease. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is a blood disorder which affects at least 5.2% of the world population across a large number of countries. In this condition, a genetic defect means that the haemoglobin in the red blood cells is not normal, instead the blood cells become sickle‐shaped and not a normal disc shape. These cells become trapped in blood vessels of various organs, especially during stressful events like a lack of oxygen, dehydration, extreme temperatures, stress, menstruation and infection. Blocked blood vessels lead to sudden episodes of severe pain in the short term and chronic organ damage in the long term. 
Sickle cell disease also leads to changes and complications in the mouth, jaw and facial areas. Management of these dental complications is often neglected as people with sickle cell disease focus all their energy on maintaining their general health due to the serious blood disorder. Neglecting minor dental health issues under these circumstances not only worsens the problem but may also cause a painful sickle‐cell crisis, leading to emergency hospital admissions. Treatment of oral complications in this group of people needs to be tailored around their blood disorder, in order not to cause any further deterioration to their general health. 
There is a lack of information on the appropriate treatment for dental complications in people with sickle cell disease,with no clear guidelines available. This often results in many people being refused treatment by dentists due to a fear of complications. Hence, we planned to investigate this issue and make any evidence in this area available to healthcare providers and people with the disease. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 01 August 2019.
Study characteristics 
We were not able to find any randomised controlled studies assessing treatment for any dental complications in people with sickle cell disease. 
Key results No studies were identified, so we can not draw any conclusions or highlight any implications for practice. Studies are needed to establish the best treatment for dental problems in people with sickle cell disease.  Quality of the evidence 
