Chlorhexidine skin care for prevention of mortality and infection in neonates
Background 
Infections are the single most important cause of neonatal deaths worldwide and are responsible for almost a third of all neonatal mortality. Affordable, feasible and efficacious interventions to reduce neonatal infections and improved neonatal survival are needed. Chlorhexidine, a broad spectrum antiseptic agent, is active against common organisms causing perinatal infections. Use of chlorhexidine on neonatal skin or cord, or both, for prevention of infection is a possible strategy to improve neonatal survival. In this review we assessed the effects of neonatal skin or cord care with chlorhexidine compared to routine care or no treatment on neonatal survival and infections in newborn infants born in the hospital or community. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature for studies done in hospitals and communities that evaluated infections and deaths in newborns randomly assigned to receive either chlorhexidine care or the standard practice. Searches were done up to November 2013. There were 12 relevant studies found: there were seven hospital‐based and five community‐based studies. In four studies maternal vaginal wash with chlorhexidine was done in addition to neonatal skin and cord care. The durations of the included studies ranged from 6 months to 37 months. The number of participants in the included studies ranged from 112 to 29,760. None of the included studies declared any conflict of interest or were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
Key findings 
Newborn skin or cord cleansing with chlorhexidine compared to usual care in hospitals  
Chlorhexidine cord cleansing compared to dry cord care may lead to no difference in neonatal mortality. However, chlorhexidine cord cleansing probably reduces the risk of omphalitis or infections. 
Chlorhexidine skin cleansing compared to dry cord care may lead to no difference in omphalitis or infections (none of the studies in this comparison reported effects of the treatments on neonatal mortality). 
Newborn skin or cord cleansing with chlorhexidine compared to usual care in the community  
Chlorhexidine cord cleansing compared to dry cord care reduces neonatal mortality and omphalitis or infections. There was no difference between chlorhexidine skin cleansing and usual skin care on neonatal mortality (none of the studies in this comparison reported effects of the treatments on omphalitis or infections). 
Maternal vaginal chlorhexidine in addition to total body cleansing compared to no intervention (sterile saline solution) in hospitals  
Maternal vaginal chlorhexidine in addition to total body cleansing compared to no probably leads to no difference in neonatal mortality and infections. Maternal vaginal cleansing in addition to total body cleansing increases the risk of hypothermia. 
