Making improvements to routine health information systems to strengthen the management of health systems 
For health services and systems to function well, managers need a routine information system that produces reliable information about how well these services are working and that supports the use of this information to improve services. The aim of this Cochrane Review was to see if different ways of improving the routine information system could improve the quality and use of this information and the quality and use of health services. The review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found six studies. 
Key messages 
Moving from paper‐based information systems to electronic and digital systems probably allows staff at healthcare facilities to collect some types of routine health information faster and with fewer mistakes. But there are many evidence gaps, and we still need to know more about the effect of different approaches on information quality and use and on the quality of healthcare services and the broader health system. 
What was studied in the review? 
Staff at healthcare facilities usually routinely collect information about the services they provide. This often includes information about their patients’ health and the type of treatments and tests they receive. Managers at different levels of the health system also collect information, for instance about human resources, finances, medicines and supply systems. Managers can then use this information to make decisions about how to organise and improve the services. This is referred to as a “routine health information system”. It is often a paper‐based system, but information can also be gathered through electronic systems. 
In many countries, these routine systems do not work well. This is often because the information is of poor quality or not that useful. Where good quality information is available, managers do not always use the information effectively to improve services. This may be because they have problems accessing the information, they lack the skills to use the information correctly, or they are not encouraged or supported in their use of the information. 
In this review, we looked at different ways of improving routine health information systems and the effect this has on the quality and use of the information and the quality of healthcare services and the broader health system. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found six relevant studies from countries in Africa and South America. Some of the studies assessed whether electronic systems were better than paper‐based systems. Some of the studies also looked at other ways of improving the system, for instance by using SMS mobile‐phone systems to help health workers and other staff notify central systems about supply levels, register patients, or monitor patients’ health. 
What effect do these types of systems have on the quality and use of the information that is collected and on health service and systems quality? 
‐ When healthcare staff use electronic and digital information systems to document and communicate tuberculosis (TB) laboratory test results, compared to paper‐based systems, test results are probably reported faster and with fewer mistakes overall. But we do not know if these new systems lead to fewer serious mistakes (such as giving the wrong test results for a patient when moving information from the laboratory system to the clinic system), because the certainty of the evidence is very low. 
‐ When community health workers are sent frequent text‐messages (SMS) motivating them to collect information about pregnancies, births and newborn deaths, this may make little or no difference to the quality of the information that is reported, compared to less frequent messages. 
