Osteotomy for treating knee osteoarthritis
Researchers from The Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of the effects of an osteotomy in people with osteoarthritis of the knee. Upon searching for all relevant studies until November 2013, they found 21 studies that included up to 1065 people. Their findings are summarised below. 
This review shows that in people with osteoarthritis of the knee:
• osteotomy can improve pain and function, but this is based on changes within a treatment group. No studies compared osteotomy versus conservative treatment; and • no evidence can be found for a preferred osteotomy technique. 
What is osteoarthritis of the knee, and what is an osteotomy?  Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints, such as the knee or the hip. When the joint loses cartilage, the bone grows to try to repair the damage. Instead of making things better, however, the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can become misshapen, and this can make the joint painful and unstable. This can affect physical function or ability to use the knee. Two main types of surgery are used to treat patients with osteoarthritis of the knee: knee replacement and osteotomy. 
Osteotomy is surgery in which the bones are cut and realigned. Osteotomy around the knee changes the alignment of the knee. Weight bearing will be shifted from the diseased part to a healthy part of the knee. By 'unloading' the damaged cartilage of the knee, osteotomy may decrease pain, improve function, slow knee deterioration and possibly delay the need for (partial or) total knee replacement surgery. 
What happens to people after an osteotomy for knee osteoarthritis?  Follow‐up of all studies was too short to allow scoring of treatment failure; this refers to a revision to a knee replacement. 
In all studies, people reported less pain and improved knee function and quality of life after any type of high tibial osteotomy. However this comparison is based on differences before and after an osteotomy, not on comparison with non‐operative treatment. Probably no differences in pain and function scores are noted between different osteotomy techniques. 
Rare complications may include thromboembolism and lesions to nerves and vascular structures. 
The most important reasons for reoperation include hardware removal resulting from pain and pin track infection due to the external fixator. This reoperation rate may be higher in patients undergoing another high tibial osteotomy technique compared with those treated with the closing wedge technique. 
Two studies compared high tibial osteotomy versus partial knee replacement. Benefits did not differ between these types of surgery. 
