Fixed daily dose of a low molecular weight heparin compared with an adjusted dose of unfractionated heparin for treating blood clots in the deep veins 
Background
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) is a condition in which a blood clot forms in the deep veins of the leg or pelvis (DVT) or the clot travels in the blood and blocks a blood vessel in the lungs (pulmonary embolism (PE)). The chances of getting a VTE can be increased if people have risk factors such as previous clots, prolonged periods of immobility (such as travelling on aeroplanes or bed rest), cancer, exposure to oestrogens (pregnancy, oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy), trauma and blood disorders such as thrombophilia (abnormal blood clotting). People with a VTE are treated with an anticoagulant, which prevents further clots from forming. Heparin is an anticoagulant and comes in two forms: low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) or unfractionated heparin (UFH). UFH is an older drug and is given either intravenously or by injection. When administering UFH, clinicians have to monitor blood‐clotting factors carefully and adjust the dose, because of the variability of its effect. LMWH is given by subcutaneous injection once or twice a day and does not need to be monitored as closely as UFH.  Study characteristics and key results 
This review included 29 randomised controlled trials involving 10,390 participants (current to September 2016), which compared LMWH or UFH for treating people with blood clots. Pooling the results of these trials showed that fewer participants treated with LMWH formed further blood clots and that fewer cases of bleeding occurred. Use of LMWH also reduced the size of the original blood clot when compared to the UFH group. There was no difference in number of deaths between participants treated with LMWH and those treated with UFH. 
Quality of the evidence
Results of this review indicate that LMWH may prevent further blood clots and bleeding in people with VTE. However, these findings must be interpreted with caution due to the moderate quality of the evidence as a result of lack of reporting of study methods and problems with study design. Results indicating reduced size of blood clots when taking LMWH also must be interpreted with caution due to the low quality of evidence as results were not similar across the studies. 
