What are the benefits and risks of negative pressure wound therapy for managing the open abdomen in people who are not trauma patients? 
Key messages 
‐ We do not know if negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT, defined as pressure lower than a given reference pressure, generally causing suction) helps abdominal wounds to heal quicker or reduces potential harmful effects compared with using a Bogota bag (a sterilised fluid bag used for closing abdominal wounds). 
‐ We do not know if a Suprasorb CNP system (a type of NPWT) helps abdominal wounds to heal quicker or reduces potential harmful effects compared with using an ABThera system (another type of NPWT). 
‐ We do not know if NPWT increases the risk of bowel perforation. Future research should explore healing time, potential unwanted or harmful effects, all‐cause mortality, length of hospital stay, health‐related quality of life, reoperation rate, wound infection, and pain outcomes. 
What is an open abdomen? 
Sometimes a person's abdomen needs to be left open while it heals after surgery. However, high death rates are associated with leaving the abdomen open after surgery. Managing the open abdomen is a considerable burden for patients and doctors. 
How is this managed? 
NPWT uses a sealed dressing connected to a vacuum pump to drain fluid from a wound. However, the safety and effectiveness of NPWT as a treatment for open abdomen is still uncertain. 
NPWT has been used in recent years to treat non‐trauma patients after abdominal surgery. Non‐trauma patients are people who need surgery for conditions that are not caused by trauma (e.g. abdominal infection, cancer, ischaemia). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out whether NPWT is effective in treating the open abdomen after surgery in non‐trauma patients in any care setting. We wanted to compare NPWT with other treatment methods or other types of NPWT, and we were particularly interested in their effects on the following: 
‐ wound closure (how long it took for wounds to close and how many people had wounds that fully closed); 
‐ if there were any harmful or unwanted effects (e.g. bowel perforation);
‐ death rate;
‐ participant health‐related quality of life or health status;
‐ length of hospital stay;
‐ reoperation rate;
‐ wound infection; and
‐ pain.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared NPWT with any other type of temporary abdominal closure in non‐trauma patients with open abdomen. We also included studies that compared different types of NPWT systems for managing the open abdomen in non‐trauma patients. We had no restrictions with respect to language, date of publication, or where the study was conducted. We rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found one single‐centre study conducted in Turkey, which included 40 adults with open abdomen. Participants were randomly allocated to treatment with either NPWT or a Bogota bag. We cannot tell from the results whether when compared to Bogota bag, NPWT reduces: 
‐ the time needed for wounds to completely close;
‐ harmful or unwanted effects (bowel perforation);
‐ death rate; or
‐ length of hospital stay between the groups.
The study did not report the proportion of people with wounds that were successfully closed, participant health‐related quality of life, reoperation rate, wound infection, or pain. 
We found another single‐centre study, which was conducted in Austria and included 34 adults with open abdomen. Participants were randomly allocated to treatment with either a Suprasorb CNP system or an ABThera system. We cannot tell from the results whether when compared to an ABThera system, a Suprasorb CNP system reduces: 
‐ the proportion of people with wounds that were successfully closed;
‐ harmful or unwanted effects (bowel perforation);
‐ death rate; or
‐ reoperation rate between the groups.
The study did not report the time needed for wounds to completely close, participant health‐related quality of life, length of hospital stay, wound infection, or pain. 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We only found two relevant studies, so we are uncertain about the benefits or harms of using NPWT compared with using a Bogota bag or different types of NPWT systems. We did not find any studies that compared NPWT with other types of temporary abdominal closure. 
How up to date is this evidence? 
The evidence is up to date to October 2021.
