Antibiotic therapy for the treatment of methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA)‐infected or colonised non surgical wounds 
Non surgical wounds include chronic skin ulcers (such as pressure sores or diabetic ulcers), burns and traumatic wounds. Methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) can be present in 7% to 30% of such wounds, and the MRSA may spread into the bloodstream, causing a life‐threatening illness. A proportion of the wounds in which MRSA was present show signs of infection such as redness, pain, and pus discharge. The presence of MRSA without infection is called colonisation. It is not clear whether antibiotics should be used in MRSA colonised non‐surgical wounds. The antibiotic that has to be used in MRSA‐infected wounds is also not clear. We tried to find this out by performing a thorough search of the medical literature for studies that compared different antibiotic treatments for MRSA‐infected or MRSA‐colonised non surgical wounds. We included only randomised controlled trials, as, if they are conducted properly, they provide the best information. We included all relevant randomised controlled trials irrespective of the language in which the study was reported, the year of publication, and the number of people included in them. Two review authors independently identified the trials and extracted the relevant information in order to decrease the chance of an error occurring during this process. 
We identified three trials that provided some information on this topic. A total of 47 people with MRSA‐infected diabetic foot infections were randomised to six different antibiotic treatments (choice of treatment determined by a method similar to coin tossing). The only outcome reported was the eradication of MRSA. The trials reported none of the other outcomes that are important for patients and healthcare funders, such as death, quality of life, length of hospital stay, use of healthcare resources and time to complete wound healing. Each trial compared different antibiotics, and in each comparison there was no difference in the effectiveness of the antibiotics in eradicating MRSA. The three trials were very small and had a number of design faults, so it is still not possible to say which antibiotic is the most effective in eradicating MRSA from non‐surgical wounds. Because there were no trials at all comparing the use of antibiotics with no antibiotic we do not know whether using antibiotics at all makes a difference for people with MRSA‐colonised non‐surgical wounds. Further well‐designed randomised controlled trials are necessary to determine the best treatment for non surgical wounds containing or infected with MRSA. 
