How accurate is chest ultrasonography compared to supine chest radiography for diagnosis of traumatic pneumothorax in the emergency department? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of traumatic pneumothorax important? 
Air that collects between the lung and the chest wall is described as a pneumothorax. Pneumothorax can cause collapse of the lung, change the position of the heart and other structures in the chest, reduce the blood flow back to the heart, and cause life‐threatening shock. Physicians may perform tube thoracostomy — a procedure with risk of complications such as haemorrhage, organ injury, and infection — to evacuate the air trapped. Not recognizing a pneumothorax (false negative (FN)) can lead to heart and lung failure and death. An incorrect diagnosis of a pneumothorax (false positive (FP)) may lead to inappropriate tube thoracostomy. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To determine how accurate chest ultrasonography (CUS) is compared to chest X‐ray (CXR) in diagnosing pneumothorax in trauma patients in the emergency department (ED). Researchers included 13 studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
We compared the diagnostic accuracy of two tests, CUS and CXR. We then compared these two tests to computed tomography (CT) or, if clinically necessary, tube thoracostomy as the reference standard. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The analysis included results from 1271 trauma patients, where 410 had traumatic pneumothorax.
The results of these studies indicate that, in theory, if CUS was used on a group of 100 patients where 30 (30%) have traumatic pneumothorax, then an estimated 28 would have a CUS result positive for pneumothorax (TP) and of these one (3.6%) would be incorrectly classified as having the pneumothorax (FP); of the 72 patients with a result negative for pneumothorax, three (4.2%) would actually have a pneumothorax (FN). 
In theory, if CXR was used on a group of 100 patients where 30 (30%) have traumatic pneumothorax, then an estimated 14 would have a CXR result positive for pneumothorax (TP) and of these none (0%) would be incorrectly classified as having the pneumothorax (FP); of the 86 patients with a result negative for pneumothorax, 16 (18.6%) would actually have a pneumothorax (FN). 
How reliable are the results of the studies in this review? 
The numbers shown in the results are averages across all studies in the review. While CUS results were fairly consistent, CXR results were quite varied; thus, we cannot be sure that CXR will always produce the same results. In the included studies, the diagnosis of traumatic pneumothorax was confirmed by CT or tube thoracostomy. Although there were some problems with how some of the studies were conducted, their results did not differ from the more reliable studies. 
