How do minimally invasive treatments compare to traditional surgery for treating lower urinary tract symptoms in men? 
Background 
Older men often suffer from urinary complaints such as frequent urination or a weak urine stream. If these symptoms can be blamed on an enlarged prostate gland and lifestyle changes and medications don't help enough, there are surgical procedures that may help. One such procedure is called transurethral resection of the prostate (traditional surgery). This traditional surgery has been widely used for a long time, and is known to work well, but it does require anesthesia and has several unwanted effects. Other 'minimally invasive' surgical procedures have become available. These procedures are said to work similarly well, but with fewer unwanted effects. The five minimally invasive procedures are 'prostatic urethral lift', 'convective radiofrequency water vapor therapy', 'transurethral microwave thermotherapy', 'prostatic arterial embolization', and 'temporary implantable nitinol device'. 
Review question 
We performed this review to compare five newer treatment forms for men with lower urinary tract symptoms to traditional surgery or 'sham surgery'. In sham surgery, men thought they were getting surgery but really did not have anything done. 
Methods 
We used recommended Cochrane methods and GRADE to rate the certainty of evidence. We also used a special statistical method called network meta‐analysis to compare different treatments. 
Search date 
The findings of our study are up‐to‐date until February 2021.
Included studies 
We included 27 randomized controlled trials. In this type of study, random 'chance' determined whether men were assigned to receive one of the newer surgical procedures, or traditional surgery (or sham surgery). This method of assigning participants to 'intervention' or 'control' groups helps to reduce bias in research studies. 
Men were mostly over 50 years of age and had severe urinary symptoms. Most studies (16 studies) used transurethral microwave thermotherapy. Eleven studies followed men for less than one year and nine studies followed men for one year. Only seven studies followed men for two years or longer. 
