Indacaterol for the treatment of people with stable COPD
Review question 
1. What is the effect of treatment with indacaterol versus no treatment on stable COPD? 
2. What is the effect of treatment with indacaterol versus twice‐daily beta2‐agonists on stable COPD? 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a progressive lung disease that causes shortness of breath and impairs quality of life. In addition, sudden worsening of symptoms (acute exacerbations) may require additional treatment or hospitalisation and may result in further impairment in quality of life. 
Several different medicines can be used to treat patients with COPD; inhaled long‐acting beta2‐agonists are one example. Until recently, inhaled long‐acting beta2‐agonists required twice‐daily dosing. Indacaterol is an inhaled beta2‐agonist that requires once‐daily dosing. 
We aimed to assess the following.
1. The effect of indacaterol in the treatment of participants with stable COPD.
2. How indacaterol compares with available alternative twice‐daily long‐acting beta2‐agonists. 
Study characteristics 
13 trials with a total of 9961 participants were included in this review. Ten trials with a total of 8562 participants involved an indacaterol versus placebo comparison. Five trials with a total of 4133 participants involved an indacaterol versus twice‐daily beta2‐agonist comparison. Two trials included both indacaterol versus placebo and indacaterol versus twice‐daily beta2‐agonist comparisons. Trials were between 12 and 52 weeks duration and compared doses between 75 mcg and 600 mcg. In most trials, mean forced expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV1) was approximately 50% predicted. 
Key results 
1. Indacaterol is an effective medication for the treatment of patients with stable COPD. It results in improved lung function and quality of life. 
2. Indacaterol led to improvements in lung function that were clinically similar to those seen with twice‐daily long‐acting beta2‐agonists. 
3. No measurable difference was noted between indacaterol and twice‐daily long‐acting beta2‐agonists with respect to quality of life, but important differences cannot be excluded. 
4. No significant difference was observed in the number of participants suffering a serious adverse event or mortality, but the confidence intervals were too wide because very few events could be used to rule out important differences. 
