We updated our search for evidence from randomised controlled studies in July 2019. We included two studies, published in 1989 and 2019. The older study was conducted in the USA and the more recent study was from a number of hospital obstetric units in the UK. A total of 3813 women undergoing operative vaginal delivery were included. The USA study involved 393 women and compared 2 g of intravenous cefotetan after cord clamping with no treatment. The other study involved 3420 women. This study compared intravenous amoxicillin and clavulanic acid with placebo. The certainty of the evidence varied from high certainty to low, with low certainty being downgraded because of concerns relating to imprecise results, with few events and only a single study reporting on a number of the findings.  Prophylactic antibiotics given to reduce or prevent infection halved the number of women with infected episiotomies or lacerations. These findings included superficial and deep perineal wound infections (one study, 3420 women; high‐certainty evidence) or wound breakdown (one study, 2593 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). Serious infectious complications were also reduced (one study, 3420 women; high‐certainty evidence). Due to low‐certainty evidence, prophylactic antibiotics had uncertain effects on endometritis, experienced as fever and uterine tenderness or heavy bleeding (two studies, 3813 women; low‐certainty evidence) and infected episiotomy/laceration presenting with organ or space perineal infection (one study, 3420 women; low‐certainty evidence).  The impact on maternal adverse reactions (one study, 2593 women; low‐certainty evidence) and maternal length of stay in hospital (one study, 393 women; low‐certainty evidence) was also unclear due to the low‐certainty of the study. Perineal pain and health consequences of perineal pain were slightly reduced. Prophylactic antibiotics did not have a clear effect on pain during sex and breastfeeding at six weeks. Maternal hospital re‐admission and maternal health‐related quality of life may be slightly improved. Costs were reduced with use of prophylactic antibiotics. Neither study specifically measured fever, urinary tract infection or adverse reactions in babies. 