Use of computer or robotic technology to assist surgeons in performing gynaecological surgery 
This updated review was originally covered by two separate Cochrane reviews on robot‐assisted surgery for benign and malignant gynaecological disease. 
The question  Laparoscopic (keyhole) surgery is widely used in gynaecology. Robot‐assisted surgery (RAS) is a relatively new type of laparoscopic surgery that allows the surgeon to conduct the operation from a computer console situated away from the patient via remote‐controlled mechanical arms attached to the surgical table. RAS is already in use in several countries for gynaecological surgery, particularly for hysterectomy (removal of the uterus/womb), and it has been reported to be useful for myomectomy (removal of uterine fibroids), tubal re‐anastomosis (joining two ends of one fallopian tube to restore fertility), sacrocolpopexy (designed to repair vaginal vault prolapse, when the uppermost part of the vagina slips downwards), and other procedures for benign (non‐cancerous) disease. It has also been used for treatment of women with gynaecological cancers, especially endometrial (lining of the womb) and cervical cancers. However, the benefits and risks of RAS versus standard surgical approaches have not been clearly established. 
How we conducted the review  We identified studies by searching databases and writing to researchers of registered trials. Two review authors independently assessed studies and collected the data from each study. We included only randomised controlled trials. We pooled data from similar individual studies in the analyses, and we examined different types of operations separately (hysterectomy, sacrocolpopexy, or surgery for endometriosis). 
Findings  We included 12 studies involving 1016 women requiring surgery for gynaecological disease. Studies were at moderate to high overall risk of bias. Operations performed were hysterectomy (eight studies) and sacrocolpopexy (three studies). In addition, one trial examined surgical treatment for endometriosis, which included resection or hysterectomy. We are uncertain as to whether RAS or conventional laparoscopic surgery (CLS) has lower overall complication rates because the evidence gathered was of low certainty. The time taken to carry out the operation varied considerably among studies reporting this outcome, so results are difficult to interpret, and although the evidence suggested slightly shorter hospital stays with RAS (one‐third of a day), we considered the evidence to be very uncertain and studies to be at high risk of bias. 
For sacrocolpopexy procedures, overall evidence shows no clear differences in rates of any complications with RAS compared with CLS, but the evidence was of low certainty. Only one study reported postoperative complications, which were higher in the RAS group (low‐certainty evidence). RAS was associated with an average increase in operating time of 40.53 minutes in the RAS group (low‐certainty evidence), but these results probably are not reliable, as there was a lot of variation between studies. We found very low‐certainty evidence suggesting there was little or no difference between RAS and CLS in terms of duration of hospital stay for this procedure. 
Two small studies looked at hysterectomy using RAS versus open abdominal surgery; however, most findings were assessed as being too uncertain to draw any conclusions. Similarly, a study with data for 73 women looked at RAS versus CLS for surgery for endometriosis; women with endometriosis underwent procedures ranging from relatively minor endometrial resection through hysterectomy; many of the women included in this study had undergone previous surgery for their condition, and the sample size was insufficient to show potential differences between surgical techniques. 
