Alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors for prevention or delay of type 2 diabetes and associated complications in people at increased risk of type 2 diabetes 
Review question 
Can alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors prevent or delay type 2 diabetes mellitus and its associated complications in people at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
People with moderately elevated glucose levels are often said to be at an increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. Therefore, these people are frequently recommended to increase exercise and lower calorie intake to prevent type 2 diabetes. Alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors (acarbose, miglitol, voglibose), are used to lower blood glucose in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus. It is currently not known whether alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors should be prescribed for people with moderately raised blood glucose levels. We wanted to find out whether alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors could prevent or delay type 2 diabetes mellitus in people with moderately elevated glucose levels. We searched medical literature for randomised controlled trials (clinical trials where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), of at least one year's duration, investigating alpha‐glucosidase inhibitors in participants with glucose levels higher than considered normal, but below the diagnostic criteria for type 2 diabetes mellitus. 
Trial characteristics 
We found 10 randomised controlled trials representing 11,814 participants, eight investigating acarbose and two investigating voglibose. The trial duration ranged from one to six years. 
This evidence is up to date as of December 2017.
Key results 
When comparing acarbose with placebo (a substance thought to have no therapeutic effect), 670 out of 4014 participants (17%) receiving acarbose developed type 2 diabetes, compared to 812 out of 3994 participants (20%) receiving placebo. Most data for this comparison came from a trial including people with heart disease. When comparing acarbose with no intervention, seven out of 75 participants (9%) receiving acarbose developed type 2 diabetes, compared to 18 out 65 participants (28%) receiving no intervention. Acarbose treatment did not reduce or increase the risk of death from any cause, death from heart disease, serious side effects, strokes or heart failure. Compared to placebo, acarbose reduced the risk for heart attacks (one out of 742 participants (0.1%) receiving acarbose had a heart attack compared to 15 out of 744 participants (2%) receiving placebo). Acarbose treatment showed an increased risk of non‐serious side effects (mainly gastro‐intestinal events), compared to placebo: 751 of 775 people (97%) receiving acarbose had a non‐serious side effect, compared to 723 of 775 people (93%) receiving placebo. 
One trial compared voglibose with placebo and another trial compared voglibose with diet and exercise. When comparing voglibose with placebo, 50 out of 897 participants (5.6%) receiving voglibose developed type 2 diabetes, compared to 106 out of 881 participants (12%) receiving placebo. 
One trial with 90 participants compared acarbose with diet and exercise and another trial with 98 participants compared acarbose with metformin. There were no important differences for any outcome for these comparisons. 
