Drugs that target abnormal growth protein in high‐grade, aggressive brain tumours
Background 
Glioblastomas are highly aggressive brain tumours. They often appear quickly with devastating effects depending on the part of the brain they are located. They often affect previously well and high functioning individuals without any ‘warning signs’. There are no known risk factors. The impact on people with glioblastomas, their family, friends, and society is highly problematic. Standard therapy involves resection of the tumour, then combined chemotherapy and radiation therapy followed by an additional six months of chemotherapy. This strategy aims only to control and contain the disease and delay its return because at present there is no cure. 
Researchers have investigated and found multiple gene changes in glioblastoma tissue samples, leading to clinical trials testing new drug therapies. The protein epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR), which normally controls cell growth, is abnormal in glioblastomas in about 30% to 60% of cases. This abnormality can lead to unrestrained cell growth, replication, and an increase in the cancer's aggressive potential. It is currently recognised that people with glioblastomas with an abnormal EGFR may have shorter survivals. 
Some clinical trials with drugs targeting this protein have been conducted. This review aimed to collect all available evidence and investigate the risks and benefits for this type of therapy in glioblastomas, and in particular whether anti‐EGFR drugs can improve survival whilst remaining a tolerable therapy without side effects. 
Methods 
We searched medical databases for randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) that used anti‐EGFR therapies in people with glioblastoma up to April 2020. 
Key results 
Overall, no benefits were seen in improving overall survival with the use of anti‐EGFR therapy in newly diagnosed people with glioblastoma or in the recurrent setting. The use of anti‐EGFR therapies was not associated with increased side effects such as low white cells or platelet counts. There were some expected side effects including skin rashes and diarrhoea, but these were not severe and did not seem to impact participant quality of life. Anti‐EGFR therapy did not delay disease worsening in newly diagnosed people with glioblastomas but there was an improvement seen amongst those with recurrent disease. 
