Oral Janus kinase inhibitors (tofacitinib) for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis 
What is ulcerative colitis? 
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic (long‐term) inflammatory bowel disease that affects the large bowel. The most common symptoms of ulcerative colitis include bloody diarrhea, abdominal pain and a sudden almost uncontrollable urge to pass stool. Some people experience symptoms outside of the bowels including sore joints, mouth sores and inflammation in their eyes. When someone is experiencing symptoms of ulcerative colitis, they are said to have 'active' disease. When symptoms of ulcerative colitis improve with treatment, the disease is said to be responding to therapy. When symptoms of ulcerative colitis stop, the disease is said to be in 'remission'. People with ulcerative colitis in remission are often given therapy with drugs to try and prolong (maintain) their remission or response to therapy. 
What are Janus kinase inhibitors? 
Janus kinase inhibitors (including tofacitinib) are a class of medications which reduce inflammation in the body. Tofacitinib is currently being used in autoimmune diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis and ulcerative colitis. These drugs come in pill form and are taken by mouth (oral). 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers investigated whether tofacitinib helps maintain remission in people with inactive ulcerative colitis and whether this medication causes any harm (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to 20 September 2019. 
Key results 
We identified one study (593 participants) that compared tofacitinib versus a placebo (a fake medicine). The participants had moderate‐to‐severe ulcerative colitis that responded to tofacitinib or placebo induction therapy (10 mg twice daily for eight weeks). The study was of high methodological quality. High‐certainty evidence suggests that tofacitinib (5 mg or 10 mg twice daily) is more effective than placebo at achieving clinical remission (stopping of symptoms) and endoscopic remission (i.e. healing of inflamed bowel mucosa) of ulcerative colitis at 52 weeks. The rates of side effects (tofacitinib: 76%; placebo: 75%) and serious side effects (tofacitinib: 5%; placebo: 7%) were similar in participants receiving tofacitinib and placebo. High‐certainty evidence suggests there is no increased risk of side effects with tofacitinib compared to placebo. Commonly reported side effects included worsening ulcerative colitis, nasopharyngitis (i.e. common cold), arthralgia (i.e. joint pain) and headache. The certainty of the evidence for serious side effects was low due to a low number of events. Serious side effects included non‐melanoma skin cancers, cardiovascular events (e.g. heart attack), cancer other than non‐melanoma skin cancer, Bowen's disease (i.e. a type of skin cancer), skin papilloma (i.e. a tumour of the skin) and uterine leiomyoma (i.e. a tumour in the uterus). In addition, there was a higher rate of withdrawal from the study due to side effects in the placebo group compared to the treatment group. Nine per cent of participants taking tofacitinib withdrew due to a side effect compared to 19% of participants taking placebo (moderate‐certainty evidence). The most common reason for study withdrawal due to a side effect was worsening ulcerative colitis. 
Conclusions 
High‐certainty evidence suggests that tofacitinib is superior to placebo for achieving clinical and endoscopic remission at 52 weeks in participants with moderate‐to‐severe ulcerative colitis that responded to tofacitinib induction therapy. The optimal dose of tofacitinib for maintenance therapy is unknown. High‐certainty evidence suggests that there is no increased risk of side effects with tofacitinib compared to placebo. However, we are uncertain about the effect of tofacitinib on serious side effects due to the low number of events. Further studies are required to look at the long‐term benefits and harms of using tofacitinib and other oral Janus kinase inhibitors as maintenance therapy in participants with moderate‐to‐severe ulcerative colitis in remission. 
