Anti‐TNF‐alpha drugs for treating ankylosing spondylitis
Researchers looked at trials done up to June 2014 on the effect of anti‐TNF drugs (adalimumab (Humira®), etanercept (Enbrel®), golimumab (Simponi®), and infliximab (Remicade®)) on ankylosing spondylitis. They found 21 trials with 3308 participants. Most studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
What is ankylosing spondylitis and what are anti‐TNF drugs? 
Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis, usually in the joints and ligaments of the spine, but it may also affect other joints. Pain and stiffness occurs and limits movement in the back and affected joints. It can come and go, last for long periods, and be quite severe. 
Anti‐TNF drugs target a protein called 'tumor necrosis factor' that causes inflammation. These drugs suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation in the joints, with the aim of preventing damage. Even though suppressing the immune system can make it slightly harder to fight off infections, it also helps to stabilize an overactive immune system. 
The review shows that in people with ankylosing spondylitis, using anti‐TNF drugs for up to 24 weeks: 
‐ improves pain, function and other symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis; ‐ may increase the chance of achieving partial remission of symptoms of ankylosing spondylitis; ‐ probably slightly improves spinal inflammation, as measured by magnetic resonance imaging (MRI); and ‐ probably causes slightly more people to drop out of studies because of side effects. 
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications, but in these short‐term studies there was no evidence of an increase in serious adverse events. Possible side effects may include a serious infection (like tuberculosis) or upper respiratory infection.  Rare complications may include certain types of cancer.  
Best estimate of what happens to people with ankylosing spondylitis who take anti‐TNF drugs for up to 24 weeks: 
ASAS40 (40% improvement in pain, function, and inflammation as measured by morning stiffness, and patient overall well‐being)   Compared to 13 people out of 100 who experienced an improvement with a placebo, among people who took: 
‐ adalimumab: 46 people out of 100 experienced improvement (33% improvement); ‐ etanercept: 43 people out of 100 experienced improvement (30% improvement); ‐ golimumab: 38 people out of 100 experienced improvement (25% improvement); and ‐ infliximab: 53 people out of 100 experienced improvement (40% improvement). 
Partial remission (defined as a value of less than 2 on a 0 to 10 scale in each of pain, function, and inflammation as measured by morning stiffness, and patient overall well‐being)   Compared to 3 people out of 100 who experienced an improvement with a placebo, among people who took: 
‐ adalimumab: 19 people out of 100 experienced partial remission (16% improvement); ‐ etanercept: 13 people out of 100 experienced partial remission (10% improvement); ‐ golimumab: 16 people out of 100 experienced partial remission (13% improvement); and ‐ infliximab: 47 people out of 100 experienced partial remission (44% improvement). 
