Is D‐cycloserine effective and safe for social and communication skills deficits in people with ASD? 
What is the aim of this review? 
Autism spectrum disorder (ASD) is a relatively common disorder involving the abnormal development of the brain. It often leads to repetitive behaviours, restrictive activities, limited interests, reduced social functioning and language skills. There are no effective treatments for these features of ASD but recent research suggests that D‐cycloserine might improve social and communication skills in people with ASD. D‐cycloserine is a type of medicine used to treat tuberculosis (a contagious infection that usually affects the lungs) and schizophrenia (a serious mental disorder of thought, emotion and behaviour).  We wanted to know whether D‐cycloserine, alone or in combination with other treatment, was better or worse than placebo (dummy pill) at improving social and communication skills in individuals with ASD. We also wanted to know if there were any harmful side effects from using this medication.  
Key messages 
There appears to be no clear difference between D‐cycloserine plus social skills training and social skills training alone on social and communication skills in individuals with ASD. However, we are uncertain about these results. 
What was studied in the review? 
We searched databases of scientific studies and found one relevant study to include in this review. The study took place in the USA and did not have industry funding. A total of 67 children aged 5 to 11 years were included in the study. One group took a medicine called D‐cycloserine once a week plus social skills training, and the other group took a placebo pill (dummy pill which does not include medicine) plus social skills training. The treatment lasted for 10 weeks. 
What are the main results of the review? 
One week post‐treatment, there was no difference in social interaction, repetitive behaviours and language skills between the D‐cycloserine and placebo groups. Compared to placebo treatment, D‐cycloserine may not increase the number of harmful side effects, the number of people dropping out of the study and treatment responsiveness. 
D‐cycloserine may make little or no difference to social and communication skills deficits in individuals with ASD. These findings may change if more studies are included. We do not know the long‐term effects of D‐cycloserine due to the short duration of the study. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to November 2020.
