Maintenance treatments for opiate‐dependent pregnant women
Review question 
This review summarised research studies comparing different types of pharmacologic maintenance treatments for pregnant women with opioid dependence 
Key messages: 
Methadone and buprenorphine may be substantially similar in efficacy and safety for the treatment of opioid‐dependent pregnant women and their babies. There is not enough evidence to make conclusions for the comparison between methadone and slow‐release morphine. Overall, the body of evidence is too small to make firm conclusions. 
Background 
Some women continue to use opiates when they are pregnant, yet heroin readily crosses the placenta. Opiate‐dependent women experience a sixfold increase in maternal obstetric complications and may give birth to low‐weight babies. The newborn may experience narcotic withdrawal (neonatal abstinence syndrome) and have development problems. There is also increased neonatal mortality and a 74‐fold increase in the risk of sudden infant death syndrome. Maintenance treatment with methadone provides a steady concentration of opiate in the pregnant woman's blood, and so prevents the adverse effects on the fetus of repeated withdrawals. Buprenorphine is also used. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 18 February 2020.
Study characteristics 
Only four randomised controlled trials with 271 participants satisfied the inclusion criteria for the review: two from Austria (outpatients), one from the USA (inpatients) and the fourth a multicentre, international study conducted in Austria, Canada and the USA. The trials continued for 15 to 18 weeks. Three compared methadone with buprenorphine (223 participants) and one compared methadone with oral slow‐release morphine (48 participants). 
Study funding sources 
The National Institute on Drug Abuse funded two studies, one received a grant from the Mayor of Vienna, and in the fourth study Schering Plough provided an educational grant to the first author to employ personnel required to conduct this study. 
Key results 
This review found few differences in newborn or maternal outcomes for pregnant, opiate‐addicted women who were maintained on methadone, buprenorphine or oral slow‐release morphine from a mean gestational age of 23 weeks to delivery. 
