Speech and language therapy for language problems after a stroke
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of the effect of speech and language therapy (SLT) on language problems experienced by people after a stroke (known as aphasia). 
Background 
About a third of people who suffer a stroke develop aphasia. One or more areas of communication can be affected: speaking, oral comprehension, reading, and writing. Speech and language therapists assess, diagnose, and treat aphasia at all stages of recovery after stroke. They work closely with the person with aphasia, families, and other healthcare professionals. We wanted to see whether SLT for aphasia was effective and whether it was better or worse than non‐specialist social support. We also wanted to see which approaches to therapy offered the best recovery. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to September 2015. We found and included 57 studies involving 3002 people with aphasia in our review. We reviewed all SLT types, regimens, and methods of delivery. 
Key results 
Based on 27 studies (and 1620 people with aphasia), speech and language therapy benefits functional use of language, language comprehension (for example listening or reading), and language production (speaking or writing), when compared with no access to therapy, but it was unclear how long these benefits may last. 
There was little information available to compare SLT with social support. Information from nine trials (447 people with aphasia) suggests there may be little difference in measures of language ability. However, more people stopped taking part in social support compared with those that attended SLT. 
Thirty‐eight studies compared two different types of SLT (involving 1242 people with aphasia). Studies compared SLT that differed in therapy regimen (intensity, dosage and duration), delivery models (group, one‐to‐one, volunteer, computer‐facilitated), and approach. We need more information on these comparisons. Many hours of therapy over a short period of time (high intensity) appeared to help participants' language use in daily life and reduced the severity of their aphasia problems. However, more people stopped attending these highly intensive treatments (up to 15 hours a week) than those that had a less intensive therapy schedule. 
