Nasal cannula for breathing support in premature babies
Review question: In preterm infants, is the use of high flow nasal cannulae (HFNC) as effective as other non‐invasive methods of respiratory support in preventing chronic lung injury and death? 
Background: There are a variety of ways in which non‐invasive breathing support can be provided to preterm infants with irregular breathing (apnoea) or lung disease. These include supplemental oxygen given into the incubator, via a head‐box or via a nasal cannula; continuous positive airways pressure (CPAP) given via nasal prongs or mask; and nasal intermittent positive pressure ventilation (NIPPV) where, in addition to CPAP, inflations of a higher pressure are given intermittently. High flow nasal cannulae (HFNC) deliver oxygen or a mixture of oxygen and air via small, thin tubes that sit just inside the nostrils. HFNC have recently been introduced as another potential form of non‐invasive support. 
Study characteristics: This review found 15 randomised studies that compared HFNC with other non‐invasive ways of supporting babies' breathing. The studies differed in the interventions that were compared, the gas flows used and the reasons for respiratory support. 
Results: When HFNC was used as first‐line respiratory support after birth compared to CPAP (4 studies, 439 infants), there were no differences in the rates of death or chronic lung disease (CLD). HFNC use resulted in longer duration of respiratory support, but there were no differences in other outcomes. One study (75 infants) showed no differences between HFNC and NIPPV as breathing support after birth. When HFNC were used after a period of mechanical ventilation (total 6 studies, 934 infants), there were no differences between HFNC and CPAP in the rates of death or CLD. There was no difference in the rate of treatment failure or reintubation. Infants randomised to HFNC had less trauma to the infant's nose. There was a small reduction in the rate of pneumothorax in infants treated with HFNC. We found no difference between the effect of HFNC compared with CPAP in preterm infants in different gestational age subgroups, though there were only small numbers of extremely preterm and late preterm infants. One trial (28 infants) found similar rates of reintubation for humidified and non‐humidified HFNC, and two other trials (100 infants) found no difference between different models of equipment used to deliver humidified HFNC. For infants weaning from non‐invasive respiratory support (CPAP), two studies (149 infants) found that preterm infants randomised to HFNC had a reduced duration of hospitalisation compared with infants who remained on CPAP. 
