Pulmonary artery catheters for adult patients in intensive care
A pulmonary artery catheter (PAC) is a device utilized in intensive care units (ICU) to measure the pressures in the heart and lung blood vessels and to monitor patients. The catheter is inserted into the right side of the heart through a line placed in a large blood vessel in the neck or groin and is positioned into the pulmonary artery. Complications are uncommon and are mainly related to line insertion. Occasionally bleeding inside the lung and changes in heart rhythm have been reported, but death associated with a PAC is rare. The objective of this systematic review was to provide an up‐to‐date assessment of evidence on the effectiveness of PAC on death rates, days spent in ICU, days spent in hospital, and cost of care for adult ICU patients. 
We identified 13 studies comparing patients treated with and without the use of a PAC that studied a total of 5686 patients. These were studies of patients undergoing routine major surgery (eight) and studies of patients who were critically ill and admitted to ICUs (five). We analysed the studies for any trial related risks and performed appropriate statistical analysis to minimize any risk of bias or errors. The quality of evidence is high from this review and further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect except for cost analysis. 
Our review found that there were no differences in the number of deaths during hospital stay, days spent in general ICUs, and days spent in hospital between patients who did and did not have a PAC inserted. Two US studies were analysed for hospital cost associated with or without a PAC and showed no difference in the cost. Neither group of patients studied showed any evidence of benefit or harm from using a PAC. The catheter is a monitoring tool that helps in diagnosis and is not a treatment modality. Insertion of PACs to help make treatment decisions in ICU patients should be individualized and should be done by experts in the field after adequate training in the interpretation of data. Studies need to be conducted to identify subgroups of ICU patients who can benefit, when the device is used in combination with standardized treatment plans, in reversing shock states and improving organ function. 
