What are the benefits and risks of giving corticosteroids to pregnant women at risk of premature birth? 
Why is this question important? 
Babies born prematurely (before 37 weeks of pregnancy) can have trouble breathing if their lungs are not sufficiently developed. Up to half of babies born before 28 weeks, and a third of babies born before 32 weeks, have problems breathing and many babies do not survive. Others may become disabled due to the lack of oxygen they suffer because of the breathing difficulties experienced at birth.    
Women who may be at risk of giving birth prematurely can be given corticosteroids to prevent their babies from having trouble breathing once they are born. Corticosteroids are anti‐inflammation medicines that help the baby’s lungs mature before being born. They are usually given to women at risk of early labour, typically as two injections, though they can also be given before planned preterm birth and in some cases a repeat course can be given.  
To find out about the benefits and risks of giving corticosteroids to women at risk of giving birth early, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
We searched the medical literature for studies that compared the effects of corticosteroids against: 
‐ a placebo (dummy) treatment; or
‐ no treatment.
We compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. We rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What did we find? 
We found 27 studies that involved 11,272 women and 11,925 infants. The studies were set in 21 different countries, which included high‐, middle‐ and low‐income countries.  
Infant health 
Robust evidence shows that corticosteroids:
‐ reduce perinatal deaths (numbers of stillbirths and babies dying in the first 28 days of life); 
‐ reduce neonatal deaths (numbers of babies dying in the first 28 days of life);
‐ reduce serious breathing problems in the first hours of life;
‐ have little to no effect on babies’ birth weight.
Corticosteroids probably reduce the risk of:
‐ bleeding inside the brain;
‐ developmental delay in later childhood.
We are only moderately confident about these two findings, either because:
‐ the infants in the studies may not have been representative of all babies born prematurely; or 
‐ studies may have been conducted in ways that introduced errors into their results. 
Maternal health 
The evidence indicates that corticosteroids probably do not affect the risk of:
‐ mothers dying after giving birth;
‐ developing chorioamnionitis (inflammation or infection of the tissues that surround the baby in pregnancy); 
‐ developing endometritis (inflammation of the lining of the uterus).
We are only moderately confident about these three findings because they are based on few events. Until we have more evidence from more women, we cannot be certain that there is no difference in risk. 
We found little evidence about:
‐ women who were pregnant with multiple babies; women with high blood pressure; or women whose membranes surrounding the baby broke early; 
‐ the effects of corticosteroids in babies born prematurely versus very prematurely;
‐ different doses of corticosteroids.
This means that we cannot be certain that the findings in this review apply to all women and babies at risk of premature birth. Nor can we determine which dose of corticosteroids is best. 
