Interventions that facilitate shared decisions between primary care clinicians and patients about antibiotic use for acute respiratory infections 
Review question  We wanted to see if shared decision making was better or worse than usual care in reducing antibiotic prescribing for an acute respiratory infection in primary care. 
Background  Shared decision making enables health decisions to be made jointly by a clinician and patient. The decision making occurs after the options and their benefits and harms have been discussed together with the patient's values and preferences. 
Acute respiratory infections (such as an acute cough, middle ear infection or sore throat) are one of the most common reasons to see a health professional, and antibiotics are commonly prescribed despite good evidence that they have little benefit for these conditions. Any decision to prescribe an antibiotic should be balanced by any benefits against the risk of common harms (such as rash and stomach upset) and the contribution to antibiotic resistance ‐ now a major threat to human health. 
Shared decision making provides an ideal opportunity within a primary care consultation for greater consideration about the trade‐off between benefit and harm of antibiotics for acute respiratory illnesses. Antibiotic prescribing may decrease as a result. 
Study characteristics  We identified 10 studies (nine trials and one follow‐up study) up to December 2014. In total, the studies involved over 1100 primary care doctors and around 492,000 patients. The intervention was different in each study. Six of the studies involved training clinicians (mostly primary care doctors) in communication skills that are needed to facilitate shared decision making. In three studies, as well as training doctors in these skills, patients were also given written information about antibiotics for acute respiratory infections. All included trials received funding from government sources. No studies declared a conflict of interest. 
