Antibiotics for treating gonorrhoea in pregnancy
What is the question? Gonorrhoea is an infection caused by the Neisseria gonorrhoeae bacteria, and is a major public health challenge. It is most frequently spread during sexual contact (i.e. vaginal intercourse, oral sex, or anal sex), but can also spread from a pregnant woman to her baby during delivery. Women often do not have any symptoms of gonorrhoea. The gonorrhoea organisms can spread (disseminate) from an initial local site into the blood and cause infection of other organs. Symptoms of disseminated gonococcal infection include rash, fever, joint pain, infection of joints, and inflammation of tendons, the inner lining of the heart (endocarditis), and the membranes covering the brain and spinal cord (meningitis). We reviewed the clinical effectiveness and adverse effects of antibiotics for treating gonorrhoea in pregnant women. 
This review updates and replaces an earlier Cochrane Review on this topic.
Why is this important? Gonorrhoea can cause problems for both the pregnant woman and her baby. It is associated with preterm delivery, pre‐labour rupture of the membranes, low birthweight, and inflammation of the inner lining of the uterus (endometritis) after giving birth. Babies can become infected during birth, and occasionally by the spread of the infection before birth, when the membranes rupture too early before birth. This can result in eye infections (ophthalmia neonatorum ‐ an eye infection contracted during birth) as the baby passes through the birth canal. 
What did we find? We searched for evidence in April 2017 and found two randomised controlled trials, conducted in outpatient departments of the same two hospitals in the USA, between 1993 and 2001. One trial was sponsored by a drug company. The trials randomised a total of 514 pregnant women (347 women analysed), at an average gestational age of 22 weeks. Both trials had a follow‐up of 14 days. 
We were unable to pool the results because the trials used different comparisons. One trial compared ceftriaxone (125 mg, intramuscular) with cefixime (400 mg, oral), and the other trial assessed a higher dose of ceftriaxone (250 mg, intramuscular) versus either amoxicillin (3 g, oral) plus probenecid (1 g, oral) or spectinomycin (2 g, intramuscular). We did not include data from the spectinomycin group because this medication is no longer produced. 
We found no clear difference in the rate of cure of gonococcal infection (both genital and unrelated to the genital organs) for the different treatment groups, which was in the order of 89% to 96% (very low‐quality evidence). 
Trials did not report on the incidence of obstetric complications, disseminated gonococcal infection in the mother, or ophthalmia neonatorum in the baby. 
They provided little information on side effects of the antibiotic regimens. One trial reported one case of vomiting in the oral amoxacillin plus probenecid group. Trials reported pain at the injection sites, but did not report numbers or severity. Hyperberbilurrubinemia (where the baby has too much bilirubin in the blood) was more frequent in newborns whose mothers were exposed to ceftriaxone. There was no clear difference between groups for neonatal malformation. 
