Infusion techniques for peripheral arterial thrombolysis
Background 
Abrupt reduction in blood flow to a limb (acute limb ischaemia) usually is caused by a blood clot (thrombus) blocking an artery or a bypass graft. Severe acute ischaemia will lead to irreversible damage to muscles and nerves if blood flow is not restored in a few hours. Once irreversible damage occurs, amputation will be necessary and the condition can be life‐threatening. Infusion of clot‐busting drugs (thrombolysis) can restore blood flow by dispersing the clot; this approach is less invasive than open surgery. 
Is any infusion technique for delivering thrombolysis better than another? 
We wanted to know if any method of delivering clot‐busting drugs offered greater benefit compared to another for important outcomes such as preventing amputation and death, restoring blood flow, and reducing length of time needed to deliver drugs; and if any technique caused greater harm than another (such as stroke or bleeding)? 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
First, we searched the medical literature for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) ‐ clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups. This type of study provides the most robust evidence about effects of treatment. We then compared trial results and summarised the evidence from all studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. To do this, we considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study size, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as very low, low, moderate, or high certainty. 
What did we find? 
We found nine RCTs with a total of 671 participants with varying severity of ischaemia who were randomised to receive thrombolysis by different infusion techniques. These studies used very different trial designs, which prevented pooling of data. Two studies compared intra‐arterial and intravenous drug delivery using different thrombolytic agents. Six studies compared high‐ and low‐dose regimens, or continuous infusion and forced‐infusion (pulse spray) regimens. Studies provided no definition of what high or low dose was, used different agents with or without initial lacing of the clot with a high dose of the agent (bolus), and delivered agents into the artery or the thrombus. One study compared use of additional antiplatelet agents with thrombolysis. 
Limited evidence of very low and low certainty from individual studies may indicate that greater benefit is seen when the thrombolytic agent is delivered into the thrombus: systemic intravenous thrombolysis is less effective than intra‐arterial thrombolysis. 'High‐dose' and 'forced‐infusion' techniques, or use of adjunctive agents such as platelet glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors, may speed up thrombolysis, but these techniques are generally more labour‐intensive and seem to be associated with increased bleeding complications compared to low‐dose regimens, and there is no evidence that they lead to improved outcomes (e.g. lower amputation rates). 'Low‐dose continuous infusion', following initial lacing of the thrombus with a high dose of the thrombolytic agent, is the least labour‐intensive technique. Thrombolysis appears to be an acceptable therapy for patients with marginally threatened limbs (Rutherford grade IIa), but, because of risks of bleeding, stroke, and death, thrombolysis should be used with caution in patients who do not have limb‐threatening ischaemia (Rutherford grade I). Regimens that decrease the time needed to restore blood flow may permit treatment of patients with immediately threatened limbs (Rutherford grade IIb). 
