Interventions for treating intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy (ICP)
What is the issue? 
A liver disorder arising during pregnancy, most often in the last three months, commonly causes itching (pruritus), which can be extremely distressing to the pregnant woman. Bile acids accumulate within the liver and the blood concentration of bile acids is raised, although not always apparent with the symptoms. The signs and symptoms often resolve spontaneously within the first few days after birth, and usually within four to six weeks. Although the condition is poorly understood, there is an association with preterm birth and stillbirth among women with the severest forms of the disease. Many treatments have been suggested. This review is an update of a review first published in 2001 and last updated in 2013. 
Why is this important? 
The itching can be disabling. Stillbirth and preterm birth are serious adverse outcomes which are important to prevent. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in December 2019, and identified 26 trials involving 2007 women. The trials assessed nine different interventions, but for most of them the trials were small and had a high risk of bias; we were therefore unable to draw firm conclusions. However, the most widely‐used treatment, ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA), for which we identified seven trials (1008 women), included two trials at low risk of bias (755 women). There is now evidence that UDCA probably reduces itching (moderate‐certainty evidence). However, the size of the effect is small and for many pregnant women may not be worthwhile. The evidence for an effect of UCDA on stillbirth or fetal distress is unclear, mainly due to limitations in study design and imprecise results (very low‐certainty evidence). 
What does this mean? 
Although UDCA has not been shown to prevent the adverse outcomes of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy, there is no other effective treatment for this condition, and there is a small reduction in maternal itch. 
More high‐quality trials of other treatments are needed in order to identify what is effective for maternal itching and to prevent adverse outcomes. It would also be helpful to identify those women who are mostly likely to respond to UDCA (for example, whether bile acid concentrations affect how women with ICP respond to treatment with UDCA). 
