Pregabalin add‐on for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy
This is an update of a review previously published in 2019.
Background 
Epilepsy is a common chronic neurological disease that affects approximately 1% of people in the UK. Approximately 1 in 400 people with epilepsy have seizures that continue despite antiepileptic drug treatment (drug‐resistant epilepsy). A number of new antiepileptic drugs have been developed to treat epilepsy, of which pregabalin is one. Use of pregabalin in combination with other antiepileptic drugs can reduce the frequency of seizures, but has some adverse effects. 
Aim of review 
This review aimed to assess the effectiveness and tolerability of pregabalin when used as an add‐on antiepileptic drug in treatment‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Study characteristics 
This review examined data from eleven trials, including a total of 3949 participants. Study participants were assigned using a random method to take pregabalin, placebo, or another antiepileptic drug in addition to their usual antiepileptic drugs. 
Key results 
Participants taking pregabalin were more than twice as likely to have their seizure frequency reduced by 50% or more during a 12‐week treatment period compared to those taking placebo, and were nearly four times more likely to be completely free of seizures. Pregabalin was shown to be effective across a range of doses (150 mg to 600 mg), with increasing effectiveness at higher doses. There was also an increased likelihood of treatment withdrawal with pregabalin. Side effects associated with pregabalin included ataxia, dizziness, fatigue, somnolence, headache, nausea and weight gain. When we compared pregabalin to three other antiepileptic drugs (lamotrigine, levetiracetam, and gabapentin), participants taking pregabalin were more likely to achieve a 50% reduction in seizure frequency than those taking lamotrigine. We found no significant differences between pregabalin and levetiracetam or gabapentin as add‐on drugs. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We rated all included studies as being at low or unclear risk of bias due to missing information about the methods used to conduct the trial and a suspicion of publication bias. Publication bias can occur when studies that report non‐significant findings are not published. We suspected publication bias because the majority of included studies showed significant findings and were sponsored by the same drug company. We assessed the certainty of the evidence for the primary outcome of reduction in seizure frequency as low, meaning that we cannot be certain that the finding reported is accurate. However, we rated the certainty of the evidence for the outcomes seizure freedom and treatment withdrawal as moderate, so we can be fairly confident that these results are accurate. There were no data regarding the longer‐term effectiveness of pregabalin, and the use of pregabalin in drug‐resistant generalised epilepsy, which should be investigated in future studies. 
