Do epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) inhibitors, alone or with chemotherapy, improve outcomes for women with epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC)? 
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this review was to find out if medicines that inhibit epidermal growth factor receptors improve the outcomes of women with EOC and to identify the harms of treatment. We sought to collect and analyse results of all relevant studies to answer this question and found seven studies. 
What are the key messages of the review?  Limited evidence suggests that there is little or no benefit from taking anti‐EGFR agents either alongside chemotherapy at relapse, or as maintenance treatment after first‐line chemotherapy for EOC, and that some side effects may be increased. 
What was studied in the review?  Approximately a quarter of gynaecological cancers are of ovarian origin, although they account for half of all deaths related to gynaecological cancers. The annual incidence worldwide is about 6.6 cases per 100,000 women, with an annual mortality rate of four deaths per 100,000 women, as three‐quarters of these cases are diagnosed at an advanced stage. Treatment usually consists of a combination of surgery to remove as much of the visible cancer as possible (debulking surgery) and platinum‐based chemotherapy. Most cases of EOC (70% to 80%) respond to chemotherapy. Unfortunately, most women with advanced disease experience relapse and ultimately die because of resistance to chemotherapy. 
EGFR is involved in controlling cell growth. High EGFR activity is linked to development of EOC and to poor outcomes. Preventing EGFR activity is an attractive target for novel therapeutic agents. Anti‐EGFR agents have been developed and have been tried in combination with chemotherapy or as maintenance treatment after chemotherapy. 
What are the main results of the review?  This review found evidence from seven studies on the effects of an anti‐EGFR antibody or an EGFR tyrosine kinase inhibitor (TKI) (erlotinib and vandetanib) in women treated for EOC. This was given either as maintenance treatment, following completion of first‐line chemotherapy, or for EOC that had grown after initial treatment (recurrent or refractory disease) . 
We found low‐certainty evidence to suggest that following first‐line chemotherapy, maintenance treatment with erlotinib probably makes little or no difference in overall survival, and very low‐certainty evidence that it makes little or no difference in progression‐free survival (time before cancer starts to grow again). Treatment may reduce quality of life compared to no treatment (observation), but minimal data were available, and we have very low‐certainty about these findings. Data on adverse events were not available for inclusion in the meta‐analysis. 
