Preventive use of implantable heart defibrillators in people with poor heart function
What was the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to compare the benefits and harms of using versus not using implantable devices that restore heart rhythm (implantable cardioverter‐defibrillators (ICDs)) in addition to medications in people with non‐ischaemic heart disease. 
Key message 
The use of ICD in addition to medications in people with non‐ischaemic heart disease decreases the rate of death compared to not using the device. 
What was studied in the review? 
Poor cardiac function decreases the capacity of the heart to pump enough blood to the various organ systems in the human body. This can occur due to poor blood supply to the heart muscles (ischaemic) or other causes (non‐ischaemic). Either way, patients are at an increased risk of sudden death. The goal of treatment is to decrease this risk either through medications or through implantation of an ICD. 
The available research shows that preventive use of ICD in the first category of patients (ischaemic) decreases the rate of death. In contrast, recent publication of a large trial showed no overall benefit in the second category of patients (non‐ischaemic). 
What are the main results of this review? 
In this review, we synthesised the results of six major clinical trials that were identified through an extensive search to better understand the efficacy of ICDs in patients with non‐ischaemic heart disease. Our analysis involved 3128 participants. 
We found high‐certainty evidence suggesting that the use of these devices (compared to no such use) in people with non‐ischaemic heart disease decreases the risk of dying from any cause and of dying suddenly. There is moderate‐certainty evidence suggesting that people on such devices probably have more complications than those not on these devices. The current evidence suggests that adding ICD therapy probably has little or no effect on quality of life when compared to not adding it, but electric shocks from ICDs worsen quality of life. 
How up to date is this review? 
We searched for studies that were available up to 10 October 2018.
