Medication for social anxiety disorder (SAnD): a review of the evidence
Why is this review important? 
Individuals with SAnD often experience intense fear, avoidance, and distress in unfamiliar social situations. There is evidence that medications are useful in minimising these symptoms. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ People with SAnD.
‐ Families and friends of people who suffer from anxiety disorders.
‐ General practitioners, psychiatrists, psychologists, and pharmacists.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
‐ Is pharmacotherapy an effective form of treatment for SAnD in adults?
‐ Is medication effective and tolerable for people in terms of side effects?
‐ Which factors (methodological or clinical) predict response to pharmacotherapy?
Which studies were included in the review? 
We included studies comparing medication with placebo for the treatment of SAnD in adults. 
We included 66 trials in the review, with a total of 11,597 participants.
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There was evidence of benefit that selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) were more effective than placebo, although the evidence was of very low quality. There was also evidence of benefit for monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs), reversible inhibitors of monoamine oxidase A (RIMAs), and benzodiazepines, even though the evidence was low in quality. The anticonvulsants gabapentin and pregabalin also showed moderate‐quality evidence of a clinical response. We did not observe this effect for the remaining medication classes. The SSRIs were the only medication proving effective in reducing relapse based on moderate‐quality evidence. There was low‐quality evidence that more people taking SSRIs and SNRIs dropped out due to side effects than those taking placebo, but absolute withdrawal rates were low. 
For the outcome of SAnD symptom severity, there was evidence of benefit for SSRIs, the serotonin and norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor (SNRI) venlafaxine, MAOIs, RIMAs, benzodiazepines, the antipsychotic olanzapine, and the noradrenergic and specific serotonergic antidepressant (NaSSA) atomoxetine, but most of the evidence was of very low quality. SSRIs and RIMAs reduced depression symptoms, and SSRIs reduced functional disability across all domains. 
