Tubal flushing for subfertility
Review question 
Cochrane authors reviewed the evidence about the effect of using different contrast media during the flushing of fallopian tubes in women with subfertility. 
Background 
Blocked fallopian tubes means that sperm cannot reach the egg in the tube. Establishing whether the tubes are open (patent) is important and requires contrast media (dye) to be pushed through the tubes either at the time of an x‐ray (hysterosalpingogram), during ultrasound (hysterosalpingo‐contrast‐sonography) or during keyhole operation (laparoscopy). It has been reported that many women conceive in the first three to six months following tubal flushing although it is unclear why this occurs. There has been debate about whether oil‐soluble contrast medium (OSCM) or water‐soluble contrast medium (WSCM) should be used, as this may influence live birth. An important adverse event during the procedure is the backflow of contrast medium into the blood or lymphatic vessels, which is called intravasation and is generally asymptomatic. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence was current to April 2020. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) looking at the effect of flushing the tubes with OSCM and WSCM with each other or with no treatment in women with subfertility. Such women were those who had not been able to conceive after at least six months of unprotected sexual intercourse. We also looked at the rates of adverse events, including intravasation, infection and bleeding. 
Key results 
Fifteen trials involving 3864 women were included in this systematic review. Compared to no treatment, tubal flushing with OSCM may increase the chance of live birth and clinical pregnancy. This suggests that if the chance of live birth following no treatment is assumed to be 11%, the chance following tubal flushing with OSCM would be between 16% and 46%. We are uncertain whether tubal flushing with WSCM increases live birth or clinical pregnancy compared to no treatment. This suggests that if the chance of live birth following no treatment is assumed to be 21%, the chance following tubal flushing with WSCM would be between 15% and 33%. In the comparison between OSCM versus WSCM, the data were not sufficiently similar to combine in a meta‐analysis. Tubal flushing with OSCM may increase the chance of clinical pregnancy. With regards to adverse events, tubal flushing with OSCM probably increased in the chance of intravasation (asymptomatic) compared to tubal flushing with WSCM. This suggests that if the chance of intravasation following tubal flushing with WSCM is assumed to be 1%, the chance following tubal flushing with OSCM would be between 2% and 9%. Evidence on other adverse events was poorly reported and inconclusive. 
