Question  We aimed to find evidence from randomised studies of people undergoing surgery to demonstrate whether or not microbial sealants make a difference to the number of surgical site infections. Background  Surgical site infection is a serious complication of surgery, where bacteria contaminate the surgical wound, preventing effective healing and in some cases spreading to other parts of the body. Research suggests that for every twenty people who have surgery, one will develop such an infection. Microbial sealant is a liquid applied to the surface of the skin immediately before surgery to seal in any bacteria living on the skin. Before applying the sealant, the skin at the operating site is usually prepared with an antiseptic solution of 10% povidone‐iodine. Characteristics  We found seven trials, which in total included 859 people. Four trials involved heart surgery, one involved inguinal hernia repair, one concerned spinal correction and another looked at surgical repair of arteries in the leg. Findings  When the findings from these trials were added together, they showed that there was no difference in surgical site infection rates following the use of microbial sealants. On average, for every hundred patients who had surgery, there were six fewer surgical site infections when a microbial sealant was used compared to when no such sealant was used. Adverse effects  None of the studies commented on any dangerous side effects or reactions resulting from use of microbial sealants, so we cannot be certain about the risks of using microbial sealants. Limitations  The risk of bias varied across the seven studies we reviewed. In some there was a high risk of bias because the methods used to design the study may have given participants and care providers knowledge of whether patients were in the comparison group or the control group. In others studies, the authors took a number of steps to minimise this risk. Overall we cannot say that any of the studies was completely free from bias. 