Non‐invasive ventilation (ventilators) used at night by people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) 
Background: Non‐invasive ventilation (NIV) is a method to assist or replace spontaneous breathing (or normal breathing) with the aid of a machine called a ventilator, using a mask fitted over the nose or both the nose and mouth. NIV can be used chronically (long‐term) at the person's home if they have levels of carbon dioxide in their blood that are persistently too high. We wanted to discover if using chronic NIV at home during the night alongside standard therapy was better or worse than standard therapy alone in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) who have raised carbon dioxide levels. In 2002 and 2013, we published our original Cochrane Reviews investigating this. It is important to check if new studies have been done that could be added to the existing studies of the original review and would change the findings. 
What is individual participant data: In this review we used individual participant data (IPD). This means that we attempted to collect original research data for each person who had participated in the original studies by requesting these individuals' data from the researcher who performed the study. We used IPD as this offers a greater chance to detect changes between groups of participants and enable the investigation of additional hypotheses. We used the IPD to perform our calculations. 
Review question: What is the effect of chronic NIV in people with COPD on blood gases (oxygen and carbon dioxide), exercise capacity, quality of life, lung function, respiratory muscle function, COPD exacerbations and admissions, and survival? 
Study characteristics: The evidence is current to 21 December 2020. This review update identified 14 new studies in addition to those already in the review, so in total we included 21 studies. Ten of the studies looked at people in a stable phase (stable COPD) and four studies looked at people shortly after a COPD hospital admission (post‐exacerbation COPD). All studies included men and women. For our analyses, we used data from 778 people with stable COPD and 364 people with post‐exacerbation COPD. 
