Sublingual immunotherapy for asthma
Review question 
We assessed the evidence on the use of sublingual immunotherapy (SLIT) for people with asthma compared with placebo (dummy treatment) or with standard asthma care. We focused on whether SLIT is a good treatment for asthma and whether it is safe. 
Background 
Asthma is a long‐term condition that causes breathing problems and cough, which sometimes develop into asthma attacks. This may lead to the need for patients to take extra medication, visit a clinic or a hospital for treatment, or even be admitted to the hospital. Approximately 300 million people worldwide have asthma, and allergies may be an important trigger of asthma symptoms in about half of these people (e.g. house dust mites, pollen). The aim of SLIT is to reduce the body's allergic response that causes asthma symptoms, which is done by giving repeated doses of what the person is allergic to in liquid or tablet form under the tongue. It is currently unclear whether SLIT is more helpful or safer for people with asthma, when compared with placebo or just continuation of normal asthma treatments. 
Study characteristics 
We included 66 studies involving 7944 people, which is 2867 more people than the last time we reviewed the evidence. The included studies lasted between one day and three years, and most people in the studies had mild asthma. Both males and females were included, and about half of the studies included only children. 
Most studies involved people with house dust mites or pollen allergy. The evidence presented here is current to 29 October 2019. 
Key results 
Very few included studies recorded the number of people who had asthma attacks or 'exacerbations' leading to a hospital visit or the need for additional medication, possibly because most people in the studies had mild asthma, so it was difficult to tell if they can be reduced by SLIT. A few studies reported quality of life, but they used different scales, so it was unclear if SLIT had a positive effect. Some studies reported that people taking SLIT had fewer asthma symptoms and a reduced need for asthma medication compared with the control group, but studies measured this information in lots of different ways so that it was difficult to combine or assess for accuracy. 
