Written and personalised action plans to help adults manage their asthma
Review question 
People with asthma may be given a written personalised action plan for managing their asthma. This plan provides information on which medicines they should take and when. Other people may be given education on how they should look after their asthma. This review set out to see if using a plan on its own or with education helps improve outcomes for people with asthma. 
Background 
Asthma is a disease that affects the lungs, which can make it difficult for people to breathe. Some people can manage their asthma very well, and it does not affect them very much, but for other people, asthma can change and sometimes can get worse very quickly and often. When this happens, people may go to see their doctor or may go to the hospital. When their asthma gets worse, people can take medicines or can change the amount of medicine they take to make their asthma better. To know when and how they should change their medicines, adults with asthma can be given a written plan that is designed just for them. This is called a personalised asthma action plan (PAAP). The PAAP will tell people when they need to see their doctor and may include education on how they should manage their asthma. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies up to September 2016. We found 15 studies that provided the information we were looking for in conducting this review. A total of 3062 people had taken part in these studies; 2602 people took part in 11 studies looking at PAAP versus no PAAP, and 460 people were included in four studies looking at PAAP and education versus just education. Fourteen studies lasted six months or longer. The average age of people in these studies ranged from 22 to 49 years. Asthma severity ranged from mild to severe. We were able to use data from 10 of these 15 studies to inform our findings. 
Key results 
PAAP alone compared with no PAAP: People using a PAAP did not show any difference (good or bad) in terms of having to go to the hospital because their asthma worsened compared with people not using a PAAP. This result was the same for changes in asthma symptom scores and number of deaths due to asthma. People with a PAAP showed no improvement in their quality of life compared with those without a PAAP, but the difference was not large enough to be meaningful. 
PAAP plus education compared with education alone: Review authors found no real difference ‐ good or bad ‐ between people using a PAAP and education and those just receiving education. This finding was the same for all outcomes, that is, having to go to the hospital because their asthma worsened and changes in symptom scores and quality of life. 
