Rehabilitation for people with dementia following a hip fracture operation
Background 
Hip fracture is an injury primarily of elderly people, which is usually caused by a fall. It can affect a person's ability to walk, perform activities of daily living, and remain independent. Hip fracture is more common in people with dementia, and these individuals can find it more difficult to recover because they are at greater risk of becoming more confused and developing additional complications such as pressure sores and chest infections after surgery. They may also find it more difficult to express pain and discomfort. 
Review question 
We wanted to learn whether different ways of treating people with dementia following hip fracture might affect how well they recover and what the associated costs of their recovery might be. This is an update of a previous Cochrane Review. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) that compared any model of enhanced care and rehabilitation for people with dementia after hip fracture versus the usual care provided in the trial setting. The latest search was performed on 16 October 2019. 
We identified seven trials that studied a total of 555 people with dementia following hip fracture. Five trials compared an enhanced interdisciplinary rehabilitation and care programme where the various healthcare professionals worked collaboratively across hospital and community settings or just in hospital, to usual hospital care. Two trials compared care in‐hospital led by a geriatrician versus care led by an orthopaedic surgeon. 
Key findings 
People with dementia who receive enhanced care and rehabilitation in hospital after a hip fracture may be less likely to develop delirium. When care is led by a geriatrician, they may have stays in hospital that are three to four days shorter than if care is led by an orthopaedic surgeon. There was no information on the effect of any of the care models on quality of life, and we could not be certain about their effects on other important outcomes such as an individual's ability to manage their daily activities, regaining mobility, cognitive function, pain, death rates, or the likelihood of the person returning to the same place they had been living before the fracture. 
