Single‐dose intravenous diclofenac for short‐term pain after surgery in adults
Bottom line 
There is some evidence that intravenous diclofenac is effective for reducing pain after surgery in adults, but it is less clear how safe it is in this setting. 
Background 
Pain is common in the short term after surgery. Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, aspirin‐like drugs) are often given along with opioids (such as morphine) to treat pain. However, NSAIDs may cause bleeding (e.g. at the site of an incision or wound) and injury to the kidneys and gut. Diclofenac is an NSAID that can be given by injection into a vein (intravenously), which may be useful when patients are not able to take medicines by mouth. 
Study characteristics 
In May 2018, we searched for clinical trials where intravenous diclofenac was used to treat pain after surgery in adults. We found eight studies enrolling a total of 1756 people that met our requirements. The studies were similar in their design, although they were carried out in different surgeries (dental, mixed minor surgeries, abdominal, and orthopedic). The dose of intravenous diclofenac used also varied. Intravenous diclofenac was mostly compared to placebo (a sham treatment, such as a bag of saline administered into a vein) or another NSAID. 
Key findings 
We were most interested in determining the number of participants with at least half the maximum possible pain relief over four or six hours after treatment. Around twice as many participants had at least half the maximum possible pain relief when they received diclofenac versus those who received placebo. When diclofenac was compared with another NSAID, similar numbers of participants had at least half the maximum possible pain relief. Other assessments, such as how quickly and how many participants needed rescue medication (an extra pain medication available to study participants if the study medication is not treating the participant's pain well enough), and how many participants withdrew from a study, also usually showed that intravenous diclofenac was better than placebo and similar to other NSAIDs. 
There was insufficient information in the studies to make a good assessment of side effects and serious side effects, but the rate at which they occurred appeared to be similar among all treatments. Very few participants dropped out of the studies because of side effects. This is usually the case in studies where patients are only in a study for a short period of time. 
