Bed rest with and without hospitalisation for women who are pregnant with twins or triplets for improving outcomes 
What is the issue? 
Twins, triplets or pregnancies with a greater number of babies have a higher risk of preterm births (birth before 37 weeks of gestation) and poor growth of the babies compared with single baby pregnancies. Women with a multiple pregnancy are often advised to rest in bed at home or in hospital to reduce the risk of preterm birth and other pregnancy complications. 
Why is this important? 
Although bed rest is widely used in multiple pregnancies currently there is insufficient evidence to support the routine use of bed rest to reduce the risk of preterm birth. Furthermore, many studies have reported on adverse effects of bed rest. It is important to evaluate bed rest and weigh up the potential benefits and risks for women with multiple pregnancies. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 30 May 2016. We identified six randomised controlled trials involving a total of 636 women and 1298 babies. The women were at 17 to 33 weeks pregnant when they entered the trials. The overall risk of bias of the trials was low and the evidence in general was of low quality. 
Advising women with a multiple pregnancy to either continuously rest in bed (five trials, 495 women and 1016 babies) or rest in bed for several hours during the day but with some physical activity allowed (one trial, 141 women and 282 babies) in hospital did not reduce the risk of very preterm birth (birth before 34 weeks of gestation), infant deaths before or up to one week after the birth or, low birthweight babies (strict bed rest only) compared with women who maintained daily activities at home. Women receiving strict bed rest in hospital were more likely to go into labour normally (four trials, 488 women) and had babies with a higher mean birthweight (three trials, 314 women) compared with women without activity restrictions at home. Partial bed rest in hospital reduced the number of pregnant women developing high blood pressure (one trial, 141 women, low‐quality evidence) but the same benefit was not observed with strict bed rest (five trials, 495 women). 
Adverse effects such as the development of venous thromboembolism or mental, emotional, social and spiritual well‐being (psychosocial) effects, and women’s views and experiences of bed rest were not reported in the included trials. Neither were the costs of the intervention reported on. 
