Approaches for helping children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis to take part in decisions about their healthcare 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on ways to help children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis to take part in decisions about their healthcare. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a genetic condition mainly affecting the lungs and digestive system. In the lungs there is a build‐up of sticky mucus making infection more likely and damaging the airways. Sticky secretions from the pancreas block the flow of digestive juices into the gut, so that food is not digested or absorbed properly. 
Improvements in treatments mean that people with cystic fibrosis are living longer and long‐term management issues have become more relevant. In childhood there is a high burden of complicated treatments which then continues throughout life. Young people with cystic fibrosis need to be included in decisions about their healthcare, so that they can develop skills to manage their condition and assume responsibility for long‐term care. In shared decision‐making, a child or adolescent is actively included in healthcare decisions that affect them. We know from research with children that they want to be involved in healthcare decisions at a level of their choosing with the support of their parents and healthcare provider. We wanted to find out if there were any good techniques for encouraging children and young people with cystic fibrosis to take part in decisions about their healthcare and to identify any adverse effects. 
This review was funded by a Cochrane Fellowship awarded to the main author.
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 19 March 2019.
Study characteristics 
We planned to include studies where the people taking part would be put into groups at random. We wanted to compare approaches to shared decision‐making for children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis aged between four and 18 years. Examples of these would be providing information, checking the young person understood and was prepared to participate in decision‐making about their healthcare, the use of decision‐aids and training or educational programs. We planned to include approaches aimed at children and adolescents, at parents or at healthcare professionals (or any combination of these) where the focus was to promote shared decision‐making for children and adolescents with cystic fibrosis. 
Key results 
We did not find any studies that were eligible to include in the review. We think future research should aim to test models of shared decision‐making for young people with cystic fibrosis, which could be developed from existing models for adults; and also work out which methods young people prefer. It is also important to train health professionals in using shared decision‐making and make sure that training is consistent across all countries. 
