Fibrin glue for pilonidal sinus disease
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence regarding the effectiveness of fibrin glue, used on its own or with surgery, in the treatment of pilonidal sinus disease. 
Background 
Pilonidal sinus disease is a common condition mainly affecting young adults. The condition develops following an infection in the groove between the buttocks. The infection can cause fluid collections or a sinus (a channel under the skin) to form. Young men are more likely to be affected, and other risk factors include obesity, poor hygiene and prolonged sitting. Extensive body hair is also a factor as ingrowing hair follicles are thought to make the condition worse. The condition causes pain and often requires time off work. This affects patients’ quality of life and may cause loss of earnings. 
Pilonidal sinus disease is normally treated with a small operation. Fibrin glue, a naturally‐occurring glue‐like gel, can also be used as an alternative to, or in addition to surgery. We looked for evidence as to whether fibrin glue can speed up the healing time for this type of wound. We also wanted to find out if the treatment affected other outcomes such as pain, infection and return of the pilonidal sinus following the procedure, and whether it had any side effects (fluid collections or allergic reactions). 
Study characteristics 
In December 2016 we searched for randomised controlled trials involving participants of any age or sex, whose pilonidal sinus had been treated with fibrin glue, either on its own or with surgery. We found four studies that included 253 participants, the majority of whom were male. Fibrin glue on its own was compared with surgery in one study. In three studies fibrin glue was applied during surgery and compared with surgery on its own. There were problems with the design and conduct of all four studies which mean that their results are very uncertain. 
Key results 
It is not known whether fibrin glue on its own affects time to healing and adverse events compared with a type of surgery (Bascom's procedure). Fibrin glue may result in less pain on the first day after the procedure compared with Bascom's procedure. 
When fibrin glue is used alongside a type of surgery called the Limberg flap it may reduce the healing time by approximately 14 days compared with the surgery on its own, however this finding is highly uncertain as the evidence is very low‐quality. It is uncertain whether using the fibrin glue alongside the Limberg flap affects the incidence of a complication called seroma (a collection of fluid) but it may reduce postoperative pain (this evidence is low‐quality and therefore quite uncertain) and may reduce time to return to normal activities (low‐quality evidence) and length of hospital stay (this was very low‐quality evidence and therefore very uncertain). 
One study evaluated the effect of adding fibrin glue to a type of surgery called the Karydakis flap. It is not clear from this study whether using the glue affects time to healing or the incidence of seroma. Using the fibrin glue with the Karydakis flap may reduce length of hospital stay compared with surgery alone but again this is low‐quality evidence. 
