Ways to encourage workers to wear protective equipment to stop them breathing in harmful substances 
It is common at many workplaces for the air to contain substances that are harmful to health. These may include bacteria and viruses, various fumes and smoke, and dusts and particles such as asbestos or grain. Depending on what and how much of it is inhaled, the health consequences may vary from mild to life‐threatening. These consequences range from feelings of irritation to short‐ and long‐term illness including cancer. In many work settings respiratory protective equipment (RPE) is used to prevent workers from inhaling harmful substances. Various ways have been introduced to teach workers how to use RPE effectively. However it is unclear how well they work. Therefore, we wanted to find out if there are interventions that can encourage workers to use RPE correctly or more often. 
Studies found  We searched for relevant research studies up to 20 August 2016. We found 14 studies that analysed the effectiveness of behavioural interventions to promote RPE use. We also located one ongoing study. Studies had been conducted with 2052 farm, healthcare, production line, office and coke oven workers as well as nursing students and people with mixed occupations. We did not find any studies where the researchers conducted and assessed an intervention at the level of a whole organization. 
What the research says  All included studies compared different education and training interventions to encourage workers to use RPE correctly or more often. We found very low quality evidence that behavioural interventions such as education and training do not increase the number of workers that use RPE or that use RPE correctly. 
What is the bottom line  We conclude that there is low to very low quality evidence that behavioural interventions do not encourage workers to use RPE correctly or more often. It is likely that our conclusions will change when new studies are published. We need better quality studies that look at the effectiveness of different types of interventions. These interventions should be targeted at both individuals and organisations, to improve effective RPE use. In addition, further studies should consider some of the barriers to the successful use of RPE, such as experience of health risk, types of RPE and the employer's attitude to RPE use. 
