Oral budesonide for treatment of people with active ulcerative colitis
What is ulcerative colitis?
Ulcerative colitis is a debilitating long‐term (chronic), inflammatory bowel disease that affects the large bowel. When people with ulcerative colitis are experiencing symptoms which may include bleeding, diarrhoea and abdominal pain, the disease is said to be 'active'; periods when the symptoms stop are called 'remission'. A common initial treatment of ulcerative colitis is oral steroid therapy. Unfortunately, conventional steroids are usually absorbed into the body and cause significant unwanted side‐effects. These may include but are not limited to weight gain, diabetes, growth retardation, acne, mood instability, and high blood pressure. 
What is budesonide?
Budesonide is a steroid that is quickly metabolised by the liver thereby reducing corticosteroid‐related side‐effects. There are currently three formulations of budesonide: two standard capsules both designed to release the drug in the outer part of the small intestine and right colon; and the newer Budesonide‐MMX® capsule designed to release the drug throughout the entire colon. 
What did the researchers investigate?
The researchers investigated whether budesonide (both standard budesonide and a new specialised formulation called budesonide‐MMX®) produces remission in people with active ulcerative colitis; and whether these medications cause any harm (side‐effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to April 28, 2015. 
What did the researchers find?
We found six studies that included a total of 1808 participants. One study (343 participants) compared standard budesonide to mesalamine (an anti‐inflammatory drug composed of 5‐aminosalicylic acid), one study (72 participants) compared standard budesonide to conventional corticosteroids, four studies (1393 participants) compared budesonide‐MMX® to placebo (a fake medicine with no active ingredients such as a sugar pill) or active comparators including Entocort (standard budesonide), prednisolone (a conventional steroid drug) or mesalamine. Four studies were judged to be of high quality and two studies were judged to be of low quality. 
Evidence from three studies including 900 participants indicates that the newer formulation, budesonide‐MMX® at a dose of 9 mg/day was superior to placebo for induction of remission irrespective of mesalamine use. There is evidence to suggest that budesonide‐MMX® at a dose of 9 mg/day is particularly effective in patients with left‐sided disease as opposed to patients with more extensive disease. One small study (32 participants) comparing standard budesonide to placebo found no difference in remission rates. Evidence from one study (343 participants) comparing standard budesonide to mesalamine suggests that standard budesonide was significantly less effective than mesalamine for induction of remission. However, another study (247 participants) found no difference in remission rates between patients treated with budesonide‐MMX® and mesalamine. One study (212 participants) found no difference in remission rates between patients treated with budesonide‐MMX® 9 mg/day and standard budesonide 9 mg/day. One small study (72 participants) found no difference in endoscopic remission rates between patients treated with standard budesonide and prednisolone, however budesonide patients were less likely than prednisolone patients to experience adrenal suppression, a condition in which the adrenal glands do not produce adequate amounts of steroid hormones. Commonly reported side‐effects in the studies include worsening ulcerative colitis, headache, pyrexia (raised body temperature), insomnia (difficulty sleeping), back pain, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, flatulence and nasopharyngitis (common cold). More studies with larger numbers of participants are needed to allow conclusions regarding the comparative effectiveness of budesonide versus conventional steroid drugs, budesonide‐MMX® versus standard budesonide and budesonide versus mesalamine. 
