What are the benefits and harms of physical activity for people with irritable bowel syndrome 
Key messages 
– Physical activity interventions of between six and 24 weeks may improve symptoms in people with irritable bowel syndrome but the evidence is very uncertain.  
– There is probably little or no difference between physical activity interventions and usual care for quality of life and abdominal pain. 
– There was not enough evidence to assess adverse effects associated with physical activity interventions due to a lack of reporting in trials. 
What are physical activity interventions? 
Physical activity is defined as any bodily movement produced by your muscles that results in energy expenditure. Examples of physical activity include activity performed as part of daily life (housework, shopping), sport and recreational activity, and activity performed as part of work (e.g. travelling to work, manual labour). 
Exercise is a subset of physical activity that is planned, structured and repetitive, and has the aim of improving or maintaining overall fitness. Stretching and activities to improve balance are also considered forms of physical activity and exercise. 
The UK Department of Health and Social Care currently recommends that adults participate in a minimum of 30 minutes of daily physical activity at least five days a week. 
There is strong evidence that physical activity and exercise interventions are effective in helping people prevent and manage long‐term health conditions including coronary heart disease (narrowing of the blood vessels supplying the heart), diabetes and depression. Whether physical activity helps people diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome manage their symptoms is not clear. 
What is irritable bowel syndrome 
Irritable bowel syndrome is a common bowel disorder characterised by symptoms that include episodes of abdominal pain, bloating and changes in bowel habit.  About 10% to 20% of adults in Western countries are diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome. The management of irritable bowel syndrome follows no clear pathway and involves managing individual symptoms including laxatives for constipation, medicines to prevent gut spasms for pain, medicines to slow gut activity for diarrhoea, dietary changes, fluid intake, psychological management, antidepressants for low mood and physical activity. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out whether physical activity intervention improves symptoms, quality of life and abdominal pain in adults diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome. We searched for all available randomised controlled trials to help answer this question. A randomised controlled trial is a type of study in which participants are assigned randomly to one of two or more treatment groups. This is the best way to ensure that a fair comparison is made between new and existing treatments. 
What did we do? 
We searched nine electronic databases and trial registries for all randomised controlled trials involving adults (18 years or older) diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome that compared a physical activity intervention with no physical activity intervention in adults diagnosed with irritable bowel syndrome. We compared and summarised the results of these trials and rated our confidence in the overall evidence, based on factors such as study methods and the amount of information they provided.  
What did we find? 
We found 11 randomised controlled trials involving 622 people with irritable bowel syndrome. The biggest trial was in 102 people and the smallest was in 20 people. Six trials were conducted in high‐income countries worldwide and two were conducted in a low‐ to middle‐income country. One study included people with irritable bowel syndrome where constipation was the main stool pattern, two included people where diarrhoea was the main stool pattern and five included people with a mixed stool pattern. 
Five trials assessed a yoga physical activity intervention, three assessed advice to increase physical activity levels, two assessed treadmill exercise, and one assessed a Qigong (breathing and slow movements) intervention. Seven trials involved a 12‐week intervention period, two involved an eight‐week period and one a six‐week period. The longest trial lasted six months. 
Main results 
Physical activity interventions may improve IBS symptoms compared to usual care but the evidence is very uncertain. The average improvement in symptom score was approximately 69 points but could be as high as 106 and as low as 31 points. A change in symptoms score of 50 points would be considered meaningful for most people. Our findings suggest physical activity interventions may provide both important and non‐important improvements in IBS symptoms. 
Physical activity interventions result in little or no difference in quality of life and abdominal pain. 
We could not draw any conclusions about unwanted effects reported by participants because very few trials reported these. 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We have very little confidence in the evidence. Our confidence was lowered mainly because of concerns about how the trials were conducted, which included that many trials did not report all their results or reported new ones.   
How up to date is this review? 
The evidence is up‐to‐date to 5 November 2021.
