Post‐surgery (adjuvant) chemotherapy for early stage epithelial ovarian cancer
What is the issue? 
The initial treatment of ovarian cancer (OC) is surgery to remove the cancerous tissue. This also serves to stage the disease. Staging surgery in OC is considered optimal (complete) when it includes removal of the womb, fallopian tubes, and ovaries, as well as removal of the fatty apron attached to the gut (omentum), and sampling of the abdominal fluid, pelvic and para‐aortic lymph nodes, the side walls of the pelvis and paracolic gutters, and the diaphragm. OC is also graded 1, 2, or 3 (well‐, moderately‐, or poorly‐differentiated), with well‐differentiated (grade 1) OC associated with the best prognosis. After surgery, most women with OC are offered adjuvant (added) chemotherapy with platinum‐containing drugs. However, in the past women with stage Ia and Ib have not routinely been offered chemotherapy because the risk of treatment complications may outweigh the survival benefits. 
This is an update of a previous version of this Cochrane review, which found that women with early‐stage OC who received adjuvant chemotherapy (AC) lived longer than women who did not, and took longer for their disease to recur after initial treatment. 
What did we do? 
We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of AC versus observation after surgery in women diagnosed with early‐stage OC and pooled study outcome data where appropriate. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the literature up to 24th March 2015 and included five trials involving 1277 women with early‐stage OC in the review, and four good quality trials contributed data. Most women (more than 95%) had stage I OC. For this update, we identified one additional publication of 10‐year follow‐up results from a trial already included in the review, but found no new trials. We found high quality evidence that women diagnosed with early‐stage OC who received AC after surgery to remove and stage the disease had a lower risk of dying within 10 years than women who did not receive AC (observation group), and a lower risk of the cancer returning in the 10 years after treatment (see Cates plot, Figures 4 to 7). Low quality evidence suggested that women with higher risk disease may have more to gain from AC, but we could not exclude a survival benefit for other early stage disease. Chemotherapy can have side effects but we found insufficient data to compare adverse events and long term risks between chemotherapy and observation groups. 
