Feeding support in hospitalised adults at risk of undernourishment
Review question 
We reviewed the benefits and harms of feeding support given to adults in hospital at risk of undernourishment based on different methods, ranging from the formally‐validated to ‘according to the opinion' of the trial investigators. 
Background 
People who are malnourished when they are admitted to hospital might be at increased risk of death or are more likely to experience a serous complication. Delivering feeding support might help them, although being malnourished may be associated with a severe underlying disease. In this case, specific interventions aimed at improving their nutritional status would not help, as it would not be the poor nutritional status in itself that caused the increased risk of death or of experiencing a serious harm. 
Date of search  Feburary 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We included 244 trials, with 28,619 participants. The included trials assessed the effects of different kinds of nutrition support (i.e. dietary advice, enriching regular food with extra protein and calories, protein shakes, feeding through a catheter directly into a vein or through a tube directly into the stomach or gut). The nutrition support was provided to people in the trial who were ill with many different types of diseases and undergoing different procedures. What they all had in common was that they were at risk by at least one measure, including the trialists' clinical opinion. 
Key results 
We found no evidence of a difference between nutrition support and control for risk of death. We found that 8.3% people died at short‐term follow‐up in the control groups compared with 7.8% in those who had been given nutritional support (low quality of evidence). At the longest point of follow‐up 13.2% people in the control groups died compared with 12.2% in those who had been given nutritional support (low quality of evidence). We found no evidence of a difference between nutrition support and control for risk of a serious complications in the short term. People in the control groups had a serious complication rate of 9.9% at short‐term follow‐up compared with 9.2% with nutrition (low quality of evidence). At long‐term follow‐up 15.2% of people in the control groups had a serious complication compared with 13.8% in the nutrition groups (low quality of evidence). These results are based on just over 21,000 participants. Nutrition may increase weight by about 1.32 kg compared with people in the control groups. The increase in weight of 1.32 kg on average is of uncertain benefit. We could not reliably assess the effects on quality of life due to the variation in the reporting of this information. When we looked at the different types of nutrition support, a secondary analysis suggested that tube‐feeding might be beneficial, reducing serious complications at maximum follow‐up, but the strength of this finding is low. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence for our conclusions is of low quality for death and serious complications, and very low quality for weight. All trials had a high risk of bias (i.e. the trials were all conducted in a way that may overestimate the benefits and underestimate the harms of nutrition support). The results were consistent for death and serious complications, but there was a high level of variation in the effects on weight across the studies. 
