Mannitol versus hypertonic saline for intraoperative brain relaxation in patients undergoing surgery for brain tumour 
Review question: We reviewed evidence on the effectiveness of mannitol and hypertonic saline for brain relaxation in people having surgery (craniotomy) for brain tumour. 
Background: People with brain tumour undergo a craniotomy, or opening of the skull bone, for its removal. A relaxed brain allows the surgeon to remove the skull bone easily and to remove the tumour without damaging other brain tissue. Brain relaxation is achieved often by using mannitol, which is a hypertonic fluid. Hypertonic solutions are those that have higher solute concentrations when compared with body fluids and tissue. Some surgeons use hypertonic saline instead of mannitol. We wanted to discover whether using hypertonic saline was better or worse than using mannitol. 
Study characteristics: The evidence is current to October 2013. We included studies in children (age > 28 days and < 18 years) and adult patients (age > 18 years) of either gender who received mannitol or hypertonic saline during craniotomy for brain tumour. We reran the search in January 2017 and found five potential studies of interest which have been added to a list of ‘Studies Awaiting Classification' and will be incorporated into the formal review findings during the review update. 
Key results: We found six studies with 527 participants. 
Three studies reported the level of brain relaxation. Hypertonic saline may provide better brain relaxation than mannitol. 
The length of intensive care unit stay and hospital stay was reported by one study.
No study reported on the effects of mannitol and hypertonic saline on mortality, the condition of the patient three months after the operation or patient quality of life. Based on our results, we would expect that of 100 patients who received hypertonic saline during surgery, around 22 patients would fail to have adequate brain relaxation compared with 36 patients given mannitol. 
