Does daily treatment with formoterol result in more serious adverse events compared to placebo or daily salbutamol? 
Asthma is a common condition that affects the airways – the small tubes that carry air in and out of the lungs. When a person with asthma comes into contact with an irritant (an asthma trigger), the muscles around the walls of the airways tighten, the airways become narrower, and the lining of the airways becomes inflamed and starts to swell. This leads to the symptoms of asthma ‐ wheezing, coughing and difficulty in breathing. They can lead to an asthma attack or exacerbation. People can have underlying inflammation in their lungs and sticky mucus or phlegm may build up, which can further narrow the airways. There is no cure for asthma; however there are medications that allow most people to control their asthma so they can get on with daily life. 
Long‐acting beta2‐agonists, such as formoterol, work by reversing the narrowing of the airways that occurs during an asthma attack. These drugs ‐ taken by inhaler ‐ are known to improve lung function, symptoms, quality of life and reduce the number of asthma attacks. However, there are concerns about the safety of long‐acting beta2‐agonists, particularly in people who are not taking inhaled corticosteroids to control the underlying inflammation. We did this review to take a closer look at the safety of people taking formoterol daily compared to people on placebo or the short acting beta2‐agonist salbutamol. 
There was no statistically significant difference in the number of people who died during treatment with formoterol compared with placebo or salbutamol. Because so few people die of asthma, huge trials or observational studies are normally required to detect a difference in death rates from asthma. There were more non‐fatal serious adverse events in people taking formoterol compared to those on placebo; for every 149 people treated with formoterol for 16 weeks, one extra non‐fatal event occurred in comparison with placebo. There was no significant difference in serious adverse events in people on formoterol compared to regular salbutamol. 
We conclude that regular formoterol should not be taken by people who are not taking regular inhaled steroids due to the increased risk of serious adverse events. Formoterol should not be used as a substitute for inhaled corticosteroids, and adherence with inhaled steroids should be kept under review if separate inhalers are used when formoterol is added to inhaled corticosteroids. 
