Tai Chi for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)
Background 
People with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) frequently experience shortness of breath (dyspnoea). Tai Chi is a systematic callisthenic exercise first developed in ancient China that involves a series of slow and rhythmic circular motions. It emphasises use of the 'mind' or concentration to control breathing and circular body motions to facilitate the flow of internal energy (i.e. 'qi') to sustain equilibrium within the body and improve life expectancy. Its effects on balance and muscle strength in the elderly population have been reported, but its effects on dyspnoea, exercise capacity, pulmonary function and psychosocial well‐being for people with COPD remain inconclusive. This review explores whether Tai Chi is beneficial for reducing dyspnoea and improving exercise capacity and physiological and psychosocial well‐being among people with COPD. 
Study characteristics 
We included a total of 811 participants from 12 studies in the final analysis of this review. The number of participants in each study ranged from 10 to 206, and mean age ranged from 61 to 74 years. The programme lasted for six weeks to one year. Included studies adopted different styles and numerous forms of Tai Chi. The most commonly reported form is the simplified 24‐form Yang‐style Tai Chi. 
Key results 
No unwanted events or side effects were reported throughout the study period. Quality of evidence of all outcomes of interest ranged from very low to moderate. After training was completed, levels of shortness of breath in Tai Chi and control (i.e. usual care) groups were similar. Participants in the Tai Chi group walked farther, by 29.64 metres in six minutes, and had better pulmonary function, than those who received usual care. However, changes in quality of life were not apparent. When the effect of Tai Chi used in addition to another intervention (i.e. breathing exercise or exercise) was examined, we did not find that Tai Chi offered additional benefit in terms of shortness of breath or functional and psychosocial well‐being. Currently, only one study has investigated the beneficial effects of Tai Chi on muscle strength and balance; investigators provided insufficient information to allow comment on the data in this review. Future studies addressing these topics are warranted. 
