Notification and support for people exposed to the risk of Creutzfeldt‐Jakob disease (CJD) (or other prion diseases) through medical treatment 
CJD and variant CJD (vCJD) are rare and fatal diseases with very long incubation periods. While CJD can occur spontaneously or genetically, this review focuses on those forms of CJD and vCJD in which the disease risk has been acquired through one of a small number of specific medical procedures (iatrogenically), such as brain surgery or the use of human pituitary hormone products. 
Routine healthcare sterilisation techniques may not completely destroy the infectious agent responsible for causing CJD or vCJD. If a person is exposed to the disease risk through medical treatment, they may need to be notified of this to prevent them passing the risk to others in healthcare settings, and additional infection control measures may be needed for some procedures. As there is no screening test or effective treatment for CJD or vCJD, communicating this risk information after a healthcare incident where exposure to risk occurred may have a significant impact on the person at risk, their family members or carers, and their healthcare professionals. With no way to test for CJD or vCJD, those exposed to risk can be told only that they are at an increased risk of developing the disease. The seriousness of the disease and the uncertainty of the risk can make notification a highly distressing event, and may cause significant anxiety and psychological harm. Notification of risk and living with at‐risk status may also lead to ongoing problems over time, such as delays or discrimination in accessing routine or other health care. 
For these reasons, communication about CJD and vCJD risk must be considered carefully. The risk information must be conveyed in a way that causes the least harm to individuals and their families. However, the best ways to notify people of their exposure to the risk of CJD or vCJD, and to support them after notification, are not known. These questions were the subject of this review. 
