Supervised exercise therapy vs home‐based exercise therapy vs walking advice for patients with leg pain while walking (intermittent claudication) 
Background 
Intermittent claudication is a cramping leg pain that occurs during walking and is relieved by a short period of rest. It is caused by inadequate blood flow to the muscles of the leg due to atherosclerosis (hardening of the arteries). Exercise therapy provides significant symptomatic benefit for patients with intermittent claudication. Patients are recommended to walk at least three times a week by themselves. However, they can also participate in a formal supervised exercise program that involves walking on a treadmill or complete a structured home‐based exercise program with an observation component (e.g., exercise logbooks, pedometers). 
Study characteristics and key results 
We included 21 trials in which a total of 1400 participants with intermittent claudication (65% male, mean age 66 years) had been assigned to supervised exercise therapy, home‐based exercise therapy, or walking advice (search last run December 2016). The overall methodological quality of included trials was moderate to good. However, some trials had enrolled only small numbers of participants. Trials lasted from six weeks to two years. 
This review shows that patients participating in a supervised exercise program improve their walking ability to a greater extent than those completing a home‐based exercise program or just following walking advice. After three months, the maximal walking distance for participants following the supervised exercise program was 120 or 210 meters farther than the maximal walking distance for those who followed a home‐based exercise program or received walking advice, respectively. To put these increases in context, a US football field is roughly 90 meters (or 100 yards) long. Before participating in the exercise program, the maximal walking distance of participants was 290 meters with a pain‐free walking distance of 140 meters, so this improvement is likely to have a positive impact on their lives. Results of the home‐based exercise program were similar to those reported for walking advice. 
Compared with home‐based exercise therapy, supervised exercise therapy was more beneficial for pain‐free walking distance but had no effect on quality of life measures nor on self‐reported functional impairment. Compared with walking advice, supervised exercise therapy was more beneficial for pain‐free walking distance and self‐reported functional impairment, as well as for some quality of life measures (e.g., physical functioning, pain, and physical component summary after 12 months), and home‐based exercise therapy had no effect. 
Data show no obvious effects on mortality rates. Thirteen of the 1400 participants died, but no deaths were related to exercise therapy. Overall, adherence to supervised exercise therapy was approximately 80%, which was similar to that reported with home‐based exercise therapy. Only limited adherence data were available for walking advice groups. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence of moderate and high quality shows that supervised exercise therapy improves walking distance (maximal and pain‐free) to a greater extent than home‐based exercise therapy and walking advice, respectively. Trials show no clear differences in quality of life measures nor in self‐reported functional impairment between supervised exercise therapy and home‐based exercise therapy. However, evidence is of low and very low quality, respectively. Investigators detected some improvements in quality of life favoring supervised exercise therapy over walking advice, but analyses were limited by small numbers of studies and participants. More research is needed on disease‐specific quality of life and other functional outcomes, such as walking behavior and physical activity, as well as on long‐term follow‐up. 
