Folic acid supplementation in pregnancy
Folate is a naturally occurring vitamin while folic aid is the synthetic replacement of folate used in most supplements and in fortified foods. Folate is essential as its deficiency can be caused by poor dietary intake, genetic factors or the interaction between genetic factors and the environment. Women with sickle cell disease and those women in areas where malaria is endemic have a greater need for folate and in these areas anaemia can be a major health problem during pregnancy. Women need more folate in pregnancy to meet their need for extra blood and to meet the growing baby's need for blood. Without adequate folate intake in a mother's diet, she can become anaemic and this can contribute to her baby being small, anaemic and born too early (preterm birth). Folic acid supplementation taken before conception can reduce the chance of the baby having neural tube defects. This review looked to see if taking folic acid supplements during pregnancy could reduce the chance of the baby being born too early and of low birthweight and to see its impact on the mother’s blood (hematological values), folate levels and on pregnancy complications. 
The review authors found 31 trials (involving 17,771 women) that looked at the impact of providing folic acid supplementation during pregnancy. The data showed that taking folate during pregnancy was not associated with reducing the chance of preterm births, stillbirths, neonatal deaths, low birthweight babies, pre‐delivery anaemia in the mother or low pre‐delivery red cell folate, although pre‐delivery serum levels were improved. The review also did not show any impact of folate supplementation on improving mean birthweight and the mother’s mean haemoglobin levels during pregnancy compared with taking a placebo. However, the review showed some benefit in indicators of folate status in the mother. The evidence provided so far from these trials did not find conclusive results for any overall benefit of folic acid supplementation during pregnancy. 
Most of the studies were conducted over 30 to 45 years ago.
