Opioid treatment for opioid withdrawal in newborn infants
Review question 
To determine the efficacy and safety of using an opioid as compared to a sedative or non‐pharmacological treatment for the treatment of neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS) due to withdrawal from opioids. 
Background 
Use of opioids (prescribed or illicit) by pregnant women may result in their newborn infant experiencing withdrawal symptoms, collectively referred to as neonatal abstinence syndrome (NAS). These symptoms may result in disruption of the mother‐infant relationship, sleeping and feeding difficulties, weight loss and seizures. Treatments for newborn infants that are used to ameliorate NAS and reduce complications include supportive care treatments (such as a pacifier, swaddling, close wrapping, small frequent feeds, close skin contact by carrying in a sling, and other methods), prescription of opioids or sedatives, or both. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to September 2020.
Key results 
We included 16 studies involving 1110 infants with withdrawal symptoms as a result of their mothers’ use of opioids whilst pregnant. Eleven of the 16 included studies have taken place in the USA. Australia, Germany, Iran, Scotland and Switzerland contributed one study each. We considered seven studies likely to produce reliable results (at low risk of bias). All studies were relatively small and most included infants of mothers using opioids as well as other drugs of dependence. Some of the formulations used to treat the infants in the included studies do not meet regulatory guidance for safety in infants. 
There is insufficient evidence to determine the effectiveness and safety of non‐pharmacological interventions alone compared to non‐pharmacological interventions plus a pharmacological agent (drug such as opioid or sedative) for treatment of NAS. A single trial reported that the addition of an opioid (morphine) to supportive treatments, compared to supportive treatments alone, increased duration of hospitalisation and treatment, but reduced the number of days to regain birthweight and the duration of supportive care each day. 
