Impact of food fortification with multiple micronutrients on health
Review question Does multiple micronutrient fortification improve health? 
Background Vitamins and minerals are important for growth and body functioning. Micronutrient deficiencies are common in many populations, and food fortification is one of the interventions to reduce the burden of micronutrient deficiencies and improve health in the general population. Food fortification involves adding micronutrients to processed foods. There have been studies with various single micronutrient fortification, dual micronutrient fortification and multiple micronutrient fortification, including zinc, iron, selenium, vitamin A, vitamin B complexes, vitamin C and vitamin E. We reviewed the evidence about the impact of food fortification with multiple micronutrients (MMNs) on health in the general population. 
Study characteristics We included 43 studies (48 papers) in 19,585 participants (17,878 children) in this review. The evidence is current to August 2018. Most of the included studies assessed the impact of food fortification with MMN compared to placebo or to no intervention; two studies compared food fortification with MMN to iodised salt and one study compared food fortification with MMN to food fortification with calcium alone. Most of the studies (36 out of 43) targeted children. Twenty studies were conducted in developing countries. Food used for fortification included staple foods, such as rice and flour; dairy products, including milk and yogurt; non‐dairy beverages; biscuits; spreads; and salt. A high proportion of studies were funded by commercial sources (e.g. manufacturers of micronutrients), which can be associated with finding more beneficial effects than independently‐funded studies. 
Key results Food fortification with MMN may reduce anaemia by 32%, iron deficiency anaemia by 72%, micronutrient deficiencies (including iron deficiency by 56%, vitamin A deficiency by 58%, vitamin B2 deficiency by 64%, vitamin B6 deficiency by 91% and vitamin B12 deficiency by 58%). MMN fortification may also improve child growth measured as weight for age and weight for height/length. We are uncertain of the effect of MMN fortification on zinc deficiency and child growth measured as height/length for age. The included studies did not report on any side effects associated with MMN fortification, including deaths and diseases. We are uncertain of the effect of food fortification with MMN compared to iodised salt for iron deficiency anaemia and vitamin A deficiency. 
Quality of the evidence The quality of the evidence was low to very low, due to limitations in the study methods that could introduce a risk of bias, high heterogeneity (variation in the results from study to study), and small sample sizes. 
Although the review suggests some positive effects of MMN fortification compared to no intervention, a number of other factors should also be considered. Firstly, there is no information on possible side effects of the MMN fortification. Secondly, we could not perform various subgroup analyses to identify whether MMN fortification is more effective in different population groups, food vehicles, dosage, duration of intervention and geographical region, due to limited number of studies in each subgroup. We performed a subgroup analysis to compare commercial and non‐commercially‐funded studies and did not find a significant difference between their results, although we remain cautious about these findings. Our results are uncertain, due to the low quality of the evidence. 
