Carotid surgery in people who have symptoms with narrowing of the carotid artery
QuestionWhat are the benefits of surgical removal of the fatty deposits and blood clots from inside the carotid artery wall (carotid endarterectomy) for people who have recently (within four to six months) had symptoms due to carotid stenosis (narrowing of the artery that supplies blood to the brain)? 
BackgroundStrokes cause long‐term disability and death. The chances of dying from the first stroke are 15% to 35%, and increase to 69% in subsequent strokes, which often occur within one year of the first attack. Carotid endarterectomy may reduce the risk of subsequent or recurrent stroke, but carries a risk of complications immediately before, after, and during the operation, including disabling stroke and death. There is a 7% risk of stroke and death within 30 days of endarterectomy. 
Search dateWe searched for studies to 23 October 2019. 
Study characteristicsThis review identified three randomised controlled trials (6343 participants randomised), which compared carotid surgery with no carotid surgery (i.e. best medical therapy plus surgery versus best medical therapy alone) in participants with carotid stenosis and recent transient ischaemic attacks (TIA), or minor ischaemic strokes in the territory of that artery. The trials were carried out in centres in Europe, USA, Canada, Israel, South Africa, and Australia. The gender ratio of participants was 2.6:1 (72% men and 28% women); 90% of participants were younger than 75 years old. 
The results of the three trials were initially conflicting, because they differed in how they measured carotid stenosis and how they defined the outcomes. To address this discrepancy, we reassessed the original patient data using the same methods and definitions, so results could be compared. 
Key resultsCarotid endarterectomy reduced the risk of further stroke for people with significant stenosis. Results were particularly striking for older people, male participants, those with a significant stenosis (70% to 99%), and those who were operated on within two weeks of their TIA or stroke. Endarterectomy might be of some benefit for participants with 50% to 69% stenosis. We did not find any benefit of carotid surgery for those in whom the stenosis was minor (less than 50%) or where the carotid artery was almost blocked (near occlusion). 
