Which corticosteroid regimen should be used to prevent bronchopulmonary dysplasia?
Review question: Are the effects of corticosteroids on the outcomes 'mortality, pulmonary morbidity and neurodevelopmental outcome' in preterm infants modulated by the dosage regimen administrated? 
Background: Preterm infants have an increased risk of developing chronic lung disease (CLD) or bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). Inflammation in the lung seems to play a central role in the development of BPD, and for this reason studies have investigated the anti‐inflammatory drugs called corticosteroids. These studies showed that corticosteroid treatment reduces the risk of BPD, but is also associated with serious adverse effects on neurodevelopment outcome. To reduce these side effects, clinicians have looked for alternative regimens such as postponing corticosteroid administration, lowering its cumulative dose, giving pulse rather than continuous doses, or individualizing the dose according to the respiratory condition of the infant. 
Study characteristics: Searching all electronic databases to 21 March 2016 revealed 14 studies investigating two or more different corticosteroid regimens in preterm infants. The investigated regimens differed in the used cumulative dose, timing of initiation and duration of therapy. 
Key results: Those studies comparing a high versus a lower‐dosage regimen showed an increased risk of BPD and adverse neurodevelopmental outcome for infants receiving a lower cumulative dose. Those studies investigating an early versus later administration of steroids did not show any difference in outcome. Furthermore, pulse regimens showed inferior results for the outcome BPD compared with continuous treatment. An individualized dosage regimen showed no differences compared to the standard tapering course. 
Quality of evidence: Most of the studies had important methodological weaknesses, preventing any recommendations on the optimal corticosteroid dosage regimen for preterm infants at risk of BPD. More studies are urgently needed. 
