Psychological interventions to foster resilience in healthcare professionals
BackgroundThe work of healthcare professionals (e.g. nurses, physicians, psychologists, social workers) can be very stressful. They often carry a lot of responsibility and are required to work under pressure. This can adversely affect their physical and mental health. Interventions to protect them against such stresses are known as resilience interventions. Previous systematic reviews suggest that resilience interventions can help workers cope with stress and protect them against adverse consequences for their physical and mental health. 
Review questionDo psychological interventions designed to foster resilience improve resilience, mental health and other factors associated with resilience in healthcare professionals? 
Search datesThe evidence is current to June 2019. The results of an updated search of four key databases in June 2020 have not yet been included in the review. 
Study characteristicsWe found 44 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to either an intervention or a control group by a procedure similar to tossing a coin). The studies tested a range of resilience interventions in participants aged on average between 27 and 52.4 years. 
Healthcare professionals were the focus of 39 studies, with a total of 6892 participants. Four studies included mixed samples (1000 participants) of healthcare professionals and non‐healthcare participants. One study of resilience training for emergency workers examined 82 volunteers. 
Of the included studies, 19 compared a combined resilience intervention (e.g. mindfulness and cognitive‐behavioural therapy) versus unspecific comparators (e.g. a wait‐list control receiving the training after a waiting period). Most interventions (30/44) were performed in groups, with high training intensity of more than 12 hours or sessions (18/44), and were delivered face‐to‐face (i.e. with direct contact and face‐to‐face meetings between the intervention provider and the participants; 29/44). 
The included studies were funded by different sources (e.g. hospitals, universities), or a combination of different sources. Fifteen studies did not specify the source of their funding, and one study received no funding support. 
Certainty of the evidenceA number of things reduce the certainty about whether or not resilience interventions are effective. These include limitations in the methods of the studies, different results across studies, the small number of participants in most studies, and the fact that the findings are limited to certain participants, interventions and comparators. 
Key resultsFor healthcare professionals, resilience training may improve resilience, and may reduce symptoms of depression and stress immediately after the end of treatment. Resilience interventions do not appear to reduce anxiety symptoms or improve well‐being. However, the evidence found in this review is limited and very uncertain. This means that, at present, we have very little confidence that resilience interventions make a difference to these outcomes. Further research is very likely to change the findings. 
