Amniocentesis and placental sampling for pre‐birth diagnosis
What is the issue? 
Many women want to be reassured that their unborn baby is healthy. Second trimester amniocentesis performed around 16 weeks' gestation is the test most often used. A needle is inserted through the abdomen into the uterus to remove a sample of amniotic fluid. Early amniocentesis can be done before 15 weeks. With chorionic villus sampling, a needle is used to withdraw a sample of placental tissue. The needle can be inserted through the abdomen (transabdominal), or vaginally through the cervix (transcervical). 
Why is this important? 
It is important that tests used to indicate high‐risk (screening tests), and tests used to make a diagnosis (diagnostic tests) are safe and accurate. It is also important that diagnostic tests can be done early enough to allow parents the choice of early termination of pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 3 March 2017; we included 16 randomised controlled trials in the review, with a total of 33,555 women. The overall risk of bias was low, with very low to high‐quality evidence supporting the outcomes studied. One study of 4606 women found that a second trimester amniocentesis increased spontaneous miscarriages and pregnancy losses, but the estimate remains quite imprecise, ranging from 0 to 2%. 
Early amniocentesis was not as safe as second trimester amniocentesis because of increased pregnancy loss and spontaneous miscarriages, and higher occurrences of anomalies, particularly deformed or clubfeet (talipes). 
Low‐quality evidence found no clear differences in pregnancy loss or spontaneous miscarriages after transabdominal chorionic villus sampling or second trimester amniocentesis. Transcervical chorionic villus sampling may increase the total risk of pregnancy loss compared with a second trimester amniocentesis, mostly because of increased spontaneous miscarriages. Healthcare staff may have found transcervical chorionic villus sampling more difficult to perform than transabdominal chorionic villus sampling, because there were more failures to obtain a sample, and more repeat testing. 
