Ultrasound guidance versus anatomical landmarks for internal jugular vein catheterization
People who are critically ill sometimes need a catheter in a central vein to help with diagnosis and treatment. The catheter may be placed in a large vein in the neck (internal jugular vein), upper chest (subclavian vein) or groin (femoral vein). However, this procedure carries risks such as arterial puncture (puncturing an artery instead of the vein might result in a haematoma, which can become infected or can lead to compression of the carotid artery) and other complications (thrombosis, embolism, pneumothorax, nerve injury) and should be performed with as few attempts as possible. 
Puncture‐related complications can result from patient‐specific features such as an abnormal weight‐to‐height ratio, variations in anatomical structure (the probability of which is given in the literature as up to 29%), thrombosis‐related changes in wall structure (Caridi 1998; Denys 1991; Ferral 1998; McIntyre 1992), an existing hypovolaemia or a coagulopathy (Bernard 1971). In addition, the experience of the practitioner (Bernard 1971), the environment in which the insertion is effected (Bo‐Linn 1982), the position and the risk inherent in the particular puncture procedure contribute to the occurrence of complications. 
In the past, ‘landmarks’ on the body surface were used to find the correct place to insert catheters, but ultrasound imaging is now available. 
This Cochrane systematic review compared landmark techniques versus ultrasound to guide the insertion of a catheter into the large vein in the neck (the internal jugular vein). In 2013 we included in the review 35 studies enrolling 5108 participants (adults and children). These studies were varied, and their quality was moderate at best. We reran the search in August 2014. We will deal with any studies of interest when we update the review. 
Nevertheless, ultrasound offered some benefits. Using ultrasound reduced the rate of complications (‐71%), including severe bruising (‐73%) and accidental puncturing of an artery instead of the vein (72%). It also increased success rates, including success rates at the first attempt (+57%) and reduced the time taken to perform the procedure. None of the included studies reported on death or patient‐reported outcomes (patient discomfort). 
Based on available data, we conclude that two‐dimensional ultrasound offers improved safety and quality when compared with an anatomical landmark technique, but these findings do not necessarily hold for all users or for patients at high risk of complications. The relative utility of ultrasound when operators are experienced or inexperienced in central line insertion, however, remains unclear for some outcomes. The results for Doppler ultrasound techniques versus an anatomical landmark technique are also uncertain. 
