Blood biomarkers for the non‐invasive diagnosis of endometriosis
Review Question 
How accurate are blood tests in detecting endometriosis? Can any blood test be accurate enough to replace or reduce the need for surgery in the diagnosis of endometriosis? 
Background 
Women with endometriosis have endometrial tissue (the tissue that lines the womb and is shed during menstruation) growing outside the womb within the pelvic cavity. This tissue responds to reproductive hormones, causing painful periods, chronic lower abdominal pain and difficulty conceiving. Currently, the only reliable way of diagnosing endometriosis is to perform keyhole surgery and visualise the endometrial deposits inside the abdomen. Because surgery is risky and expensive, we evaluated whether the results of blood tests (blood biomarkers) can help to detect endometriosis non‐invasively. An accurate blood test could lead to the diagnosis of endometriosis without the need for surgery, or it could reduce the need for diagnostic surgery to a group of women who were most likely to have endometriosis. Separate Cochrane reviews from this series evaluate other non‐invasive ways of diagnosing endometriosis using urine, imaging, endometrial and combination tests. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence included in this review is current to July 2015. We included 141 studies involving 15,141 participants. All studies evaluated reproductive‐aged women who were undertaking diagnostic surgery because they were suspected of having one or more of the following target conditions: ovarian, peritoneal or deep infiltrating endometriosis (DIE). Cancer antigen‐125 (CA‐125) was the most common blood biomarker studied. Seventy studies evaluated 47 blood biomarkers that were expressed differently in women with and without endometriosis, and 82 studies identified 97 biomarkers that did not distinguish between the two groups. Twenty‐two biomarkers were in both categories. 
Key results 
Only four of the assessed biomarkers (anti‐endometrial Abs (anti‐endometrial autoantibodies), interleukin‐6 (IL‐6), CA‐19.9 and CA‐125) were evaluated by enough studies to provide a meaningful assessment of test accuracy. None of these tests was accurate enough to replace diagnostic surgery. Several studies identified biomarkers that might be of value in diagnosing endometriosis, but there are too few reports to be sure of their diagnostic benefit. Overall, there is not enough evidence to recommend testing for any blood biomarker in clinical practice to diagnose endometriosis. 
Quality of the evidence 
Generally, the reports were of low methodological quality, and most blood tests were only assessed by a single or a small number of studies. When the same biomarker was studied, there were significant differences in how studies were conducted, the group of women studied and the cut‐offs used to determine a positive result. 
Future research 
More high quality research trials are necessary to accurately assess the diagnostic potential of certain blood biomarkers, whose diagnostic value for endometriosis was suggested by a limited number of studies. 
