Patient education for neck pain
Neck disorders, such as whiplash‐associated disorders (WAD) and simple mechanical neck pain, are common and mostly resolve on their own but they can be disabling and costly for a small proportion of patients seeking help. A large proportion of direct healthcare costs associated with neck disorders is attributable to visits to healthcare providers, sick leave and the related loss of productive capacity. 
Advice and education are commonly given during the treatment of neck pain. The most common educational approaches are advice (focused on activation, pain and stress‐coping skills, workplace ergonomics, self‐care strategies), neck school, or education concurrent with other treatments. 
Electronic bibliographic databases were searched up to 11 July 2010. Fifteen randomised controlled trials (1660 participants) looking at the effectiveness of patient education strategies for neck disorders were included. Of the 15 selected trials, only one trial depicting moderate quality evidence favoured the educational video for acute WAD. The remaining trials showed that patient education trials did not demonstrate evidence of benefit or favoured the comparison treatment being exercise for pain. Other outcomes were less frequently reported and did not yield results that diverged from those associated with pain. Participants who received advice to stay active reported little or no difference in pain compared with those who received no treatment, treatments focusing on rest, treatments focusing on exercise, physiotherapy and cognitive behavioural therapy. Additionally, stress‐management therapies, when compared with no treatment, did not seem to have an effect on pain intensity in patients with mechanical neck disorders. Finally, self‐care strategies (ergonomics, exercise, self‐care, relaxation) do not seem to have an effect on pain when compared with no treatment. 
No adverse events were reported in the trials. 
In summary, the review authors concluded that there is no strong evidence for the effectiveness of educational interventions in various neck disorders. 
