Use of cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) for monitoring brain oxygenation during or after surgery in adults and children 
The review question 
We assessed the effects of monitoring the brain with cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), and treatments based on it, during and after surgery in adults and children. We aimed to determine whether NIRS detects reduced oxygen supply to the brain, which would allow the use of interventions to improve nervous system, mental process (cognition) and other outcomes that can have an impact on patients' hospital length of stay and costs. 
Background 
The human brain needs a lot of oxygen (has a high oxygen consumption) and is very sensitive to reduced oxygen supply. Successful treatment for low levels of oxygen in the brain during or after surgery relies on early diagnosis of a lack of oxygen. Cerebral NIRS is increasingly used for the early detection of lack of oxygen to the brain. It uses near‐infrared light (700 to 1000 nanometres) to penetrate through the superficial layers of the head, including the scalp and the skull, to show the cerebral tissue. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to December 2016. We updated our search in November 2017, but these results have not yet been incorporated in the review. We included 15 completed randomized controlled trials involving 1822 participants. There are 8 ongoing studies and 12 waiting further assessment. 
None of the completed studies included infants or children. In four studies participants were undergoing abdominal or orthopaedic surgery, one study included participants undergoing a procedure to restore proper blood flow to the brain, and in the remaining 10 studies participants were undergoing large blood vessel or heart surgery with or without heart bypass. The studies all used cerebral NIRS in the operating room, with only two also using cerebral NIRS in the intensive care unit. The control groups were monitored using methods such as heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure, electroencephalogram, transcranial doppler, bispectral index, oxygen saturation in the jugular vein, evoked potentials or cerebral tissue oxygen partial pressure. Overall, the different studies varied in their approach to the review question. 
Key results 
We did not pool (combine) the data for the outcome postoperative neurological injury because of variations between studies. One study with 126 participants having major abdominal surgery reported that 4/66 versus 0/56 participants experienced neurological injury with blinded and active monitoring, respectively. A second study with 195 participants undergoing coronary artery bypass surgery reported that 1/96 versus 4/94 participants suffered neurological injury in the blinded (masked) and active (with active treatments) monitoring groups, respectively. We are unsure whether active NIRS monitoring has an important effect on the risk of postoperative stroke and delirium because there was a low number of events and the result was not precise (2 studies, 240 participants; 1 study, 190 participants, respectively; low‐quality evidence). Based on two studies with 126 participants, we found low‐quality evidence that cerebral NIRS monitoring may reduce the number of participants with mild cognitive impairment at one week after surgery. Based on six studies with 962 participants, we found moderate‐quality evidence that monitoring with cerebral NIRS probably leads to little or no decrease in the number of participants with a decline in cognitive function one week after surgery. We are uncertain whether active cerebral oxygenation monitoring has a crucial effect on intraoperative or postoperative deaths because there was a low number of events and the result was not precise (3 studies, 390 participants; low‐quality evidence). We did not find any detrimental effects of the routine use of NIRS‐based brain oxygenation monitoring. 
