Community‐based intervention packages for preventing maternal and newborn illness and death so that newborn outcomes are improved 
While maternal, newborn and under‐five child death rates in developing countries have decreased in the past two to three decades, newborn death rates have hardly changed. It is now recognised that almost half of newborn deaths can be prevented by tetanus toxoid immunisation of the mothers; clean and skilled care at the birth; newborn resuscitation; clean umbilical cord care; exclusive breastfeeding; and management of infections in the newborns. In developing countries, almost two‐thirds of births occur at home and only half are attended by a trained birth attendant. A large proportion of these maternal and newborn deaths and diseases can potentially be addressed by developing community‐based packaged interventions to integrate with local health systems. 
The review authors found 26 randomised and quasi‐randomised controlled studies evaluating the impact of community‐based intervention packages for the prevention of maternal illness and death and in improving newborn health outcomes. These studies were mostly conducted in developing countries (India, Bangladesh, Pakistan, Nepal, China, Zambia, Malawi, Tanzania, South Africa, Ghana) with one additional study in Greece. Women in areas assigned to receive a community‐based intervention package and with health workers receiving additional training had less illness and fewer complications during pregnancy and birth and there were fewer stillbirths, infant deaths around the time of birth and maternal ill‐health. Community‐based intervention packages were associated with improved uptake of tetanus immunisation, usage of clean delivery kits for home births and institutional deliveries. They also improved early initiation of breastfeeding and health‐care seeking (by the mothers) for illnesses related to (their) babies. Whether these translate into improved newborn outcomes is unclear. This review highlights the value of integrating maternal and newborn care in community settings through a range of interventions which can be packaged effectively for delivery through a range of community health workers and health promotion groups. There is sufficient evidence to scale up community‐based care through packages which can be delivered by a range of community‐based workers. Most of the reviewed studies did not document the complete description and characteristics of the community health workers, especially the initial level of education and training, the level and amount of supervision provided, and the community ownership of these workers. This information would be of great relevance to policy and practice. 
