Injection treatment for painful Achilles tendons in adults
Background and aim of the review 
The Achilles tendon connects the calf muscles to the heel bone. Painful and stiff Achilles tendons are common overuse injuries in people undertaking sports, such as running, but also occur for other reasons in inactive people. The underlying cause is an imbalance between the damage and repair processes in the tendon. Painful Achilles tendons are often disabling and can take a long time to get better. Many treatments exist for this condition and this review set out to find out whether treatment with an injection, with a variety of agents, decreases pain and allows people to return to their previous activities. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to 20 April 2015 for studies that compared injection therapy with a placebo injection or no injection, or with an active treatment such as exercises, or different doses or types of injection therapy. We found 18 studies, which included 732 participants. Seven studies included athletes only. Study participants in the individual studies were mainly young to middle aged adults. 
Key results 
In 15 studies, patients had been assigned randomly to receive an injection therapy (such as a steroid), a placebo injection, or no injection at all. There were several different types of injection agents used and so we separated them into those agents that acted by causing damage to the tendon and those that acted to repair the tendon directly. However, there were not enough data to distinguish between these two types of injection therapies and so we only report the overall results for all injection therapies. 
The review of the evidence from these studies found no clinically important difference between the injection therapy or placebo or no injection groups in patient function scores at six weeks, three months or subsequently. Similar numbers of minor adverse events, such as pain during the injection, occurred in both groups. The only serious adverse event in the injection therapy group was an Achilles tendon rupture, which happened in a study testing steroid injections. There was some evidence that injection therapy may help get patients back to sporting activities and decrease pain in the short term, but there was no evidence indicating a difference between groups in patient satisfaction with treatment. 
The evidence for the other comparisons, such as injection therapy versus exercises, made by single studies was too limited to report here. 
Quality of the evidence 
Most of the studies had some aspects that could undermine the reliability of their results. We decided the evidence was of low or very low quality for all outcomes. Thus, the findings remain uncertain and further research may provide evidence that could change our conclusions. 
Conclusions 
The currently available evidence is insufficient to support the routine use of injection therapies for painful Achilles tendons in adults. Future studies are needed to provide definitive evidence for this potentially important treatment. 
