Intravenous iron for the treatment of non‐anaemic iron deficiency in adults
Background 
Iron deficiency, when the body does not have enough of the mineral iron, is a common, nutritional deficiency. Iron is used by the body to make haemoglobin, a protein in red blood cells that enables them to carry oxygen around the body. Whilst iron deficiency is most commonly associated with a low level of haemoglobin in the blood (anaemia), early, or 'non‐anaemic' iron deficiency can also lead to symptoms such as tiredness and lack of energy. Non‐anaemic iron deficiency is often treated with oral iron, which is medicine taken by mouth, such as iron tablets. However, oral iron is likely to cause side effects, is not effective for certain types of iron deficiency, and takes time to work fully. In addition, newer iron preparations, such as intravenous iron, are more stable, have fewer side effects and have maximum benefit in a shorter time period. 
Aim of the review 
To review the evidence from randomised controlled trials (where people are allocated a treatment at random) on the safety and effects of intravenous iron in the treatment of early, or non‐anaemic iron deficiency. 
Study characteristics 
We found 11 studies with 1074 participants. A broad range of people were included in these studies, including people with heart failure, elite athletes, people with restless legs syndrome and otherwise fit and well women. We excluded studies that looked at children, pregnant women, and people being treated with erythropoietin (a hormone that stimulates the production of red blood cells). 
Key results 
Intravenous iron may lead to a small increase in the level of haemoglobin in the blood. We also assessed the effect of intravenous iron on quality of life, serum ferritin (iron stored in the body), peak exercise capacity, and milder side‐effects of iron administration but we were unable to determine whether or not intravenous iron was of benefit for these outcomes. This is because there were many differences between studies in the types of participants studied, the definition of iron deficiency used, the type of intravenous iron preparation prescribed and the length of the studies. We also tried to collect data on severe side effects and bacterial infection after iron infusion, but we were unable to find any studies that measured these effectively. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Because of the many differences between the relatively small number of studies included in this review, we are uncertain about the effect of intravenous iron in non‐anaemic iron deficiency beyond saying that it might cause an increase in haemoglobin concentration. Furthermore, the starting level of haemoglobin for people included in this review was considered 'normal' prior to their receiving treatment. Therefore, not only is this increase quite small, but the starting level of haemoglobin was considered adequate according to current guidance, and patients may not even notice an improvement in symptoms. We are not suggesting that intravenous iron is not of benefit for adults with non‐anaemic iron deficiency, rather that the current quality of evidence is not good enough to be certain about the effects of these drugs. 
Conclusions 
Overall, the evidence for intravenous iron for the treatment of non‐anaemic iron deficiency is of low or very low quality. Whilst intravenous iron might cause a small increase in haemoglobin concentration from an already normal level, we are uncertain about its effects in other outcomes that we examined as part of this review. Further research examining the effects of intravenous iron for the treatment of adults with non‐anaemic iron deficiency is required to help answer this research question. 
