New monitoring strategies for clinical trials
Our question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of new monitoring strategies on monitoring findings, participant recruitment, participant follow‐up, and resource use in clinical trials. We also summarized the different components of tested strategies and qualitative evidence from process evaluations. 
Background 
Monitoring a clinical trial is important to ensure the safety of participants and the reliability of results. New methods have been developed for monitoring practices but further assessments of these new methods are needed to see if they do improve effectiveness without being inferior to established methods in terms of patient rights and safety, and quality assurance of trial results. We reviewed studies that examined this question within clinical trials, i.e. studies comparing different monitoring strategies used in clinical trials. 
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies which covered a variety of monitoring strategies in a wide range of clinical trials, including national and large international trials. They included primary (general), secondary (specialized), and tertiary (highly specialized) health care. The size of the studies ranged from 32 to 4371 participants at one to 196 sites. 
Key results 
We identified five comparisons. The first comparison of risk‐based monitoring versus extensive on‐site monitoring found no evidence that the risk‐based approach is inferior to extensive on‐site monitoring in terms of the proportion of participants with a critical or major monitoring finding not identified by the corresponding method, while resource use was three‐ to five‐fold higher with extensive on‐site monitoring. For the second comparison of central statistical monitoring with triggered on‐site visits versus regular (untriggered) on‐site visits, we found some evidence that central statistical monitoring can identify sites in need of support by an on‐site monitoring intervention. In the third comparison, the evaluation of adding an on‐site visit to local and central monitoring revealed a high percentage of participants with major or critical monitoring findings in the on‐site visit group, but low numbers of absolute monitoring findings in both groups. This means that without on‐site visits, some monitoring findings will be missed, but none of the missed findings had any serious impact on patient safety or the validity of the trial's results. In the fourth comparison, two studies assessed new source data verification processes, which are used to check that data recorded within the trial Case Report Form (CRF) match the primary source data (e.g. medical records), and reported little difference to full source data verification processes for the targeted as well as for the remote approach. In the fifth comparison, one study showed no difference in participant recruitment and participant follow‐up between a monitoring approach with systematic initiation visits versus an approach with initiation visits upon request by study sites. 
