Anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration
What is the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane review was to compare treatment with anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) agents for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration (wet AMD). This review focuses on two questions: (1) whether using anti‐VEGF agents is better than not using them, and (2) which anti‐VEGF agent works best. 
Key messages Anti‐VEGF agents were better than no anti‐VEGF agents or other types of treatment for patients with wet AMD. When studies compared anti‐VEGF agents, researchers found that ranibizumab and bevacizumab were similar in terms of vision‐related outcomes and numbers of adverse events among participants followed for at least one year. The major difference was cost, as bevacizumab was cheaper. 
What was studied in this review? Wet AMD is a common cause of severe vision loss among people 55 years of age and older. The macula, located in the central retina in the back of the eye, is important for vision. Wet AMD occurs when abnormal growth of blood vessels in the back of the eye damages the macula. Wet AMD causes blurriness, darkness, or distortion in the center of the field of vision, thus reducing the individual's ability to read, drive, and see faces. 
Injection into the eye of medicines like pegaptanib, ranibizumab, and bevacizumab can help block abnormal growth of blood vessels in the back of the eye. These drugs are known as anti‐VEGF agents. We conducted this review to compare benefits and risks of treatment with anti‐VEGF agents versus treatment without anti‐VEGF agents and to compare different types of anti‐VEGF agents. 
What are the main results of the review? We found 16 studies that enrolled a total of 6347 people with wet AMD. Six studies compared anti‐VEGF agents against no anti‐VEGF agent, and ten studies compared bevacizumab versus ranibizumab. Drug companies conducted or sponsored four of the studies. Investigators conducted the 16 studies at various centers on five continents (North and South America, Europe, Asia, and Australia); they treated people and provided follow‐up for at least one year. 
After one year, more people treated with any of the three anti‐VEGF agents (pegaptanib, ranibizumab, or bevacizumab) had improved vision, fewer had vision loss, and fewer were legally blind in the study eye when compared with people who did not receive anti‐VEGF agents. People treated with anti‐VEGF agents also showed structural improvements in the eye, which doctors use to monitor the disease and determine the need for more treatment. People who did not receive anti‐VEGF agents did not show the same kind of improvement. 
Treatment with ranibizumab or bevacizumab yielded larger improvements in vision compared with treatment with pegaptanib in trials comparing anti‐VEGF treatment against treatment not using anti‐VEGF agents. Comparison of bevacizumab versus ranibizumab revealed no major differences with respect to any vision‐related outcomes. The major difference between the two agents was cost; bevacizumab was cheaper. 
Inflammation and increased pressure in the eye were the most common unwanted effects caused by anti‐VEGF agents. Investigators reported endophthalmitis (infection in the inner part of the eye, which can cause blindness) in less than 1% of anti‐VEGF‐treated eyes and observed no cases among those not treated with anti‐VEGF agents. The occurrence of serious side effects, such as high blood pressure and internal bleeding, was low and was similar between anti‐VEGF‐treated groups and groups that did not receive anti‐VEGFs. The number of total side effects was very small, so it is impossible to tell which drug may have caused the most harmful effects. 
