Interventions for the treatment of borderline ovarian tumours
Women with borderline (low malignant potential) ovarian tumours do very well after surgery and recurrences may be cured by further surgery. The ideal form of initial surgical treatment for borderline ovarian tumours is controversial. Furthermore, it is not known if additional treatment after surgery reduces the risk of re‐appearance of tumours or of death. 
In this review, we found six trials which enrolled 340 patients who had undergone surgery for borderline ovarian tumours. These trials compared the number of deaths among women who had various forms of treatment or no additional treatment after surgery. In five of the trials, the women had tumours confined to the ovaries and most were followed up for over 10 years. Only one trial enrolled women with tumours that had spread beyond the ovary, and this trial followed patients up for less than three years, which is not long enough to detect any difference between groups receiving different treatments. None of the trials found any demonstrable benefit from any of the additional forms of treatment. However, all six trials were conducted over 15 years ago and since then platinum‐based chemotherapy has become widely used to treat advanced ovarian cancer. However, only one of the trials in our review assessed this more modern type of chemotherapy. Further trials of platinum‐based chemotherapy and of less toxic treatments are needed, looking at the benefit of reducing the anxiety and distress of further surgery and treatment for relapse. 
One further trial, which recruited 32 women who had borderline ovarian tumours in both ovaries, compared conservative surgery (taking away the most diseased ovary and removing the tumour from the other ovary) with ultra‐conservative surgery (removing the tumours without taking away either ovary). Nearly all the women who had ultra‐conservative surgery became pregnant compared with half of those who had conservative surgery. Although about two thirds of the women in the trial developed similar tumours again, most women got pregnant before the disease recurred, all had their recurrences treated by further surgery, none developed invasive ovarian cancer nor died of their tumour. This small study suggests that ultra‐conservative surgery by an experienced surgeon with careful follow up for recurrence may be recommended for women with bilateral borderline ovarian tumours who still intend to have children but, ideally, this approach should be evaluated in other independent trials. Despite rigorous searches, we did not find any trial directly comparing conservative surgery with radical surgery (surgery to remove all of the female reproductive organs) or comparing keyhole surgery (laparoscopy) with open surgery (laparotomy) for women with borderline ovarian tumours. 
