Steroids inserted into the eye versus observation for macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion 
Review question 
We aimed to examine the benefits and harms of inserting steroids into the eye for treating macular edema secondary to central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO‐ME). 
Background 
Central retinal vein occlusion (CRVO) is a common abnormality of the blood vessels in the retina (back portion of the eye which receives visual images). CRVO usually presents as a painless loss of vision in one eye of people over the age of 40 who often have other health issues such as high blood pressure, diabetes, glaucoma, and blood diseases. Macular edema (ME) is the swelling of the macula (central area of the retina responsible for detailed vision, such as reading and seeing colors). ME is a complication of CRVO and is the primary reason for loss of vision in this condition. Steroids inserted into the eye, either by injection or an implanted device, have been used to treat ME caused by eye disorders other than CRVO. While steroids can lead to improvements in vision, the effect usually lasts only a few months and there is a risk of developing glaucoma, cataracts, and other complications. 
Study characteristics 
The review authors searched the medical literature up to 13 November 2014 and included two randomized controlled trials (GENEVA and SCORE) that had evaluated steroids in 708 participants with CRVO‐ME. Both trials included participants with similar baseline characteristics with respect to age, gender, and co‐morbidities. GENEVA was conducted in 24 countries across the world and SCORE was conducted in the US. Both trials compared two different doses of steroid, but the investigators of the two trials used different steroidal agents and different methods of delivery (implant versus injection). Both trials received full or partial sponsorship from the manufacturer of the drugs. 
Key results 
Neither trial provided sufficient evidence to determine whether steroids had improved visual acuity after six months of treatment. Due to the limited evidence, we are unable to determine reliably whether steroid implants improved vision in eyes with CRVO‐ME. Although the SCORE trial showed that more eyes in the steroid injection groups had improvement in vision compared with eyes in the observation group, participants treated with steroids and those not treated with steroids both lost vision on average at eight months. The GENEVA investigators reported no difference in vision outcomes between participants treated with steroids and those not treated with steroids after six months of treatment; however the GENEVA study was not limited to participants with only CRVO‐ME and included participants with other retinal disease. Both trials showed that patients treated with steroids were at increased risk for high eye pressure ‐ requiring additional medications to lower the eye pressure ‐ and developing cataracts. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was low due to clinical differences between studies, incomplete information available to assess outcomes, and lack of masking which may lead to biased study results. 
