What are the benefits and risks of ocrelizumab for multiple sclerosis?
Key messages 
– Ocrelizumab is a recently approved medicine to treat people with multiple sclerosis (MS). In relapsing‐remitting MS (where people experience flare‐ups of symptoms), ocrelizumab probably substantially reduces flare‐ups, may substantially reduce worsening of symptoms, and probably makes little or no difference to unwanted effects compared with interferon beta‐1a (a standard treatment for MS), 96 weeks after treatment starts. 
– Compared to placebo (a dummy medicine) after 120 weeks of treatment for primary progressive MS (where people's symptoms worsen gradually), ocrelizumab may reduce worsening of symptoms. Ocrelizumab probably increases unwanted effects but makes little or no difference to the number of serious unwanted effects. 
– We need more, better‐designed studies to test the effectiveness of ocrelizumab and measure unwanted effects.  
What is multiple sclerosis? 
MS is a condition where the body's immune system mistakenly attacks the nerves in the brain and spinal cord (the central nervous system). This damage prevents messages travelling from the central nervous system to other parts of the body. It causes a range of potential symptoms from pins and needles to difficulties with balance and walking.  
There are several types of MS. In relapsing‐remitting MS, people have 'flare‐ups' of disease followed by periods of recovery. In primary progressive MS, people's symptoms gradually worsen over time.  
What is ocrelizumab? 
Ocrelizumab is a medicine that has been recently approved to treat relapsing‐remitting MS and primary progressive MS. It is a disease‐modifying therapy, which is a type of medicine that treats the underlying symptoms of MS. Ocrelizumab targets white blood cells in the body's immune system. It sticks to a type of these cells called B cells, and stops them attacking the central nervous system. This prevents inflammation and nerve damage, reducing the number and severity of relapses and slowing the worsening of symptoms. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if ocrelizumab is more effective than any other medicine or placebo in people with relapsing‐remitting MS and primary progressive MS. 
