Zonisamide add‐on for focal epilepsy that does not respond to other medication
Background 
Around 70% of people with epilepsy can become seizure‐free with antiepileptic drug treatment. The remaining 30% of people with epilepsy may not respond to antiepileptic drugs, and may still experience seizures. Older drugs do not prevent seizures for everyone, and they have side effects. New drugs have been developed to try to treat people who do not respond to the older drugs, and to try to limit the side effects. These newer drugs may be taken along with the person's existing medication, as an 'add‐on' treatment. 
Key results 
Searches of six databases found eight randomised controlled trials (1636 participants), which compared the addition of the antiepileptic drug zonisamide to one or more antiepileptic drugs to a placebo, for a period of 12 weeks, in people with uncontrolled focal epilepsy. 
Taking all the evidence of the trials into account, we found that seizure frequency was reduced for people with focal epilepsy if zonisamide was added to their usual treatment. Participants treated with 300 mg to 500 mg/day of zonisamide were twice as likely as people given placebo tablets in addition to their usual treatment, to experience at least a 50% reduction in the frequency of their seizures. However, adding zonisamide to their usual treatment was associated with an increase in side effects, such as problems with co‐ordination (ataxia), drowsiness (somnolence), agitation, and poor appetite (anorexia). 
Certainty of the evidence 
We assessed that the risk of bias within the individual trials was low, or we did not have enough information to decide. Five of the eight studies were sponsored by the drug companies that produce zonisamide. We rated the certainty of the evidence for the main outcomes as moderate. Further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. More research is needed that concentrates on examining the response of different doses of zonisamide. 
The evidence is current to September 2019.
