Ventriculo‐peritoneal valves for hydrocephalus
Review question 
What are the effects (benefits and harms) of different types of shunt devices for people being treated for hydrocephalus? 
Background 
Hydrocephalus, known as 'water on the brain' is a disorder caused by the accumulation of cerebrospinal fluid in the cavities (ventricles) deep within the brain. This causes an increase in the size of the ventricles and pressure on the brain that leads to brain damage. Ventriculo‐peritoneal valves are devices that drain the extra fluid from the brain into the peritoneal cavity,in the abdomen, where the fluid can be absorbed (a ventriculo‐peritoneal shunt). There are different types of valves and the different effects are unknown. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for the evidence up to February 2020. We included six studies with 962 participants evaluating: anti‐syphon valves, different types of standard valves, self‐adjusting cerebrospinal fluid flow‐regulating valves and programmable valves. Most of the studies included children with hydrocephalus with a follow‐up between two to six years. Four studies did not specify their funding sources. One study was funded by the manufacturer of the device and another study was funded by a foundation. 
Key results 
We are uncertain about the differences in treatment failure between standard valves and anti‐syphon valves, however, the incidence of adverse events, mortality, ventricular size and head circumference may be similar. None of the included studies reported the quality of life of participants. 
We are uncertain about the differences in treatment failure and mortality in participants with different types of standard valves. The included studies did not report the effects of these interventions on quality of life, ventricular size and head circumference. 
The incidence of treatment failure and adverse events may be similar in those with standard valves and self‐adjusting cerebrospinal fluid flow‐regulating valves. The included study reported no deaths in either group early after the operation; we are uncertain about effects beyond this period. The included studies did not report the effects of these interventions on quality of life, ventricular size reduction or head circumference. 
