Treatments for pruritus (itching) of unknown cause in children and adults
Review question 
We wanted to investigate the effects of treatment for chronic (lasting longer than six weeks) pruritus (itching) of unknown cause in children and adults. We assessed all treatments, as long as they were compared against each other, placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), a sham procedure, or no treatment (or equivalent, e.g. waiting list). We were particularly interested in assessing safety and itch intensity as reported by the patient or the parent. 
Background 
Pruritus, or itching, is an unpleasant sensation that provokes a desire to scratch. It can be caused by diseases of the skin or other parts of the body. We searched the medical literature up to July 2019 to determine the effects of drug and non‐drug therapies (e.g. phototherapy) used for treatment of itching of unknown cause. 
Study characteristics 
We included one study (257 participants) that investigated the safety and efficacy of three different doses of a drug called serlopitant (5 mg, 1 mg, and 0.25 mg, taken by mouth once daily for six weeks) versus placebo for severe chronic pruritus (participants had a score of 7 cm or higher on the visual analogue scale (VAS)). The age of included participants ranged from 18 to 65; 60.6% were women; 55% suffered from itching of unknown origin; and approximately 45% presented a dermatological diagnosis (atopic dermatitis/eczema 37.3%, psoriasis 6.7%, acne 3.6%, among other diagnoses). A pharmaceutical company funded this study, which was undertaken across 25 centres in the United States (clinical research centres and universities). The study lasted 10 weeks in total (six weeks of treatment plus four weeks of post‐treatment follow‐up). 
We found no eligible studies for the main treatments we sought to assess, which included emollient creams, cooling lotions, topical corticosteroids (a class of steroid hormones) or antidepressants, systemic antihistamines (medicines used to relieve symptoms of allergies) or antidepressants, anticonvulsants (antiseizure drugs), and phototherapy. 
Key results 
Participants who received serlopitant at doses of 0.25 mg, 5 mg, and 1 mg may be more likely to experience reduced itch intensity, as reported by the patient, when compared with participants given placebo (low‐certainty evidence). However, for serlopitant 1 mg and 0.25 mg, the range of possible results indicates there may be little to no difference between groups. 
We are uncertain of the effects of serlopitant (in the three doses) on side effects, health‐related quality of life, and sleep disturbances due to very low‐certainty evidence. 
The most commonly reported side effects were sleepiness, diarrhoea, headache, and upper respiratory tract infection, among others. 
All outcomes were measured at the end of treatment (six weeks from baseline) with the exception of adverse events, which were monitored throughout the study. 
The included study did not report the effects of this drug on depression and patient satisfaction. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Certainty of the evidence was low for patient‐reported itch intensity because 45% of participants had an identifiable skin disease and 55% had itch of poorly defined cause. Additionally, the number of study participants was small and there were few occurrences of the outcomes, or results were imprecise or were not meaningful; therefore, the study was at risk of random errors. 
Certainty of the evidence was very low for three outcomes (adverse events, quality of life, and sleep disturbances) due to additional concerns that measurement of these outcomes was not pre‐planned. Also, no information was available to assess bias from missing data for the outcome of sleep disturbances. 
