Brain imaging for diagnosing schizophrenia in people with first episode psychosis
Background 
Schizophrenia is a psychiatric disorder which involves psychotic symptoms such as distortions in thought and perception, blunted affect, and behavioural disturbances. It is important for patients who have a first episode of psychosis to be correctly diagnosed as soon as possible. The earlier schizophrenia is diagnosed the better the treatment outcome. However, other diseases sometimes have similar psychotic symptoms as schizophrenia, for example bipolar disorder. This review looks at how accurate a type of brain imaging technique called voxel‐based morphology (VBM) is at diagnosing schizophrenia in people who have a first episode of psychosis. VBM is used to measure differences in the structure of the brain in people with different types of psychosis. These differences could be used to make a diagnosis. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to December 2013. We found four studies that used VBM in 275 adolescents and adults with first episode psychosis. One study recruited participants from a hospital, one from an outpatient clinic and one from inpatient and outpatient psychiatric services, and the fourth study did not report setting. Participants' mean age ranged from 18.6 to 27.1 years. Only two studies reported on participants' gender and included both males and females. 
Quality of the evidence 
Study quality was found to be fairly good overall. In some instances it was unclear, mainly due to three of the studies that did not sufficiently describe method of VBM image processing. We were concerned about all of the studies' applicability because VBM was not used to diagnose schizophrenia in any of the studies, instead VBM was used to characterise differences in the brain's grey matter. 
Key results 
The four studies we identified used VBM on adolescents and adults with first episode psychosis, but VBM was used to describe brain structure and not to make a diagnosis. There is no evidence to support the use of VBM to diagnose schizophrenia in patients with first episode psychosis. 
