Sound reduction management in the neonatal intensive care unit for preterm or very low birthweight infants 
Background: Infants in the neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) are subjected to stress, including high intensity sound. The sound environment in the NICU is louder than most home or office environments and contains disturbing noises of short duration and at irregular intervals. There are competing sound signals that frequently challenge preterm infants, staff, and parents. The sound levels in NICUs range from 7 dB to 120 dB, often exceeding the maximum acceptable level of 45 dB, recommended by the American Academy of Pediatrics. Hearing impairment is diagnosed in 2% to 10% of preterm infants versus 0.1% of the general paediatric population. Noise may cause apnoea, hypoxaemia, alternation in oxygen saturation, and increased oxygen consumption secondary to elevated heart and respiratory rates and may, therefore, decrease the amount of calories available for growth. Elevated levels of speech are needed to overcome the noisy environment in the NICU, thereby increasing the negative impacts on staff, newborns, and their families. High noise levels are associated with an increased rate of errors and accidents, leading to decreased performance among staff. The aim of all interventions considered for inclusion in this review is to reduce the sound levels that reach the individual neonate to 45 dB or less. This can be achieved by lowering the sound levels in an entire unit, treating the infant in a section of a NICU or in a 'private' room, or in incubators in which the sound levels are controlled, or reducing the sound levels that reaches the individual infant by using earmuffs or earplugs. By lowering the sound levels that reach the neonate, the resulting stress can be diminished, thereby promoting growth and reducing adverse neonatal outcomes. 
Results: This review identified only one small, high quality study that used earplugs to reduce the sound level that reached the newborn infant. There was a trend for better growth at 34 weeks postmenstrual age (PMA). The Mental Developmental Index at 18 to 22 months was higher in the silicone earplug group that included six infants compared to the control group that included six infants. 
