Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for treating tennis elbow pain in adults
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effects of non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) on lateral elbow pain, also known as tennis elbow. The review, which included 13 trials involving 664 participants, shows the following: 
In people with lateral elbow pain: 
‐ Topical NSAIDs (applied to the skin in a gel) may improve treatment success.
‐ We are uncertain whether topical NSAIDs improve pain because of the low quality of the evidence. 
‐ NSAIDs applied to the skin may result in a skin rash.
‐ We are uncertain whether NSAIDs taken orally in tablet form improve pain or function because of the low quality of the evidence. 
‐ NSAIDs in tablet form probably result in increased stomach pain and diarrhoea, but we are not certain of the precise estimates because of the low quality of the evidence. 
Function and quality of life were not reported.
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications, particularly for rare but serious side effects. NSAIDs may cause stomach, kidney or heart problems, and NSAIDs applied to the skin may cause rash. 
What is lateral elbow pain and what are NSAIDs? 
Lateral elbow pain, or tennis elbow, can occur for no reason or can be caused by too much stress on the tendon at the elbow. This condition can cause the outside of the elbow (lateral epicondyle) and the upper forearm to become painful and tender to touch. Pain can last for 6 months to 2 years, and may get better on its own. Many treatments have been used to treat elbow pain, but it is not clear whether these treatments work, or if the pain simply goes away on its own. 
Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) (e.g. ibuprofen, diclofenac, celecoxib) can be used to manage the pain. NSAIDs can be applied directly to the skin in the form of a gel, or can be taken in tablet form. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with lateral elbow pain who use NSAIDs 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain):  ‐ People who used NSAID gel compared with a placebo gel rated their pain 1.6 points lower on a scale of 0 to 10 after 4 weeks (16% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who applied NSAID gel rated their pain to be 2.14 on a scale of 0 to 10 after 4 weeks. 
‐ People who applied placebo gel rated their pain to be 3.78 on a scale of 0 to 10.
Successful treatment: 
‐ 24 more people out of 100 reported improvement in their condition with topical NSAIDs (24% absolute improvement). 
‐ 73 out of 100 people who applied NSAID gel improved.
‐ 49 out of 100 people who applied placebo gel improved.
Side effects:  ‐ 1 more person using NSAID gel out of 100 had minor side effects such as skin rash at the site of application (0% absolute difference, ranging from 5% fewer to 6% more). 
‐ 2 out of 100 using NSAID gel had side effects,
‐ 1 out of 100 people using placebo gel had side effects.
