Perineal techniques during the second stage of labour for reducing perineal trauma
What is the issue? 
Vaginal births are often associated with some form of trauma to the genital tract, and tears that affect the anal sphincter or mucosa (third‐ and fourth‐degree tears) can cause serious problems. Perineal trauma can occur spontaneously or result from a surgical incision (episiotomy). Different perineal techniques are being used to slow down the birth of the baby's head, and allow the perineum to stretch slowly to prevent injury. Massage, warm compresses and different perineal management techniques are widely used by midwives and birth attendants. The objective of this updated review was to assess the effect of perineal techniques during the second stage of labour on the incidence of perineal trauma. This is an update of a review that was published in 2011. 
Why is this important? 
Trauma to the perineum can cause pain and other problems for women after the birth. The damage is described as first‐, second‐, third‐ and fourth‐degree tears – first‐degree tears being the least damage and fourth‐degree tears being the most. Third‐ and fourth‐degree tears, affect the anal sphincter or mucosa, thus causing the most problems. Reducing the use of episiotomies will reduce trauma to the perineum. Also, different perineal techniques are being used to slow down the birth of the baby's head. Massage, warm compresses and different perineal management techniques are widely used by midwives and birth attendants. It is important to know if these do indeed reduce trauma and pain for women. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies in September 2016. Twenty two trials were eligible for inclusion in this updated review but only twenty studies (involving 15,181 women), contributed results to the review. The participants in the studies were women without medical complications who were expecting a vaginal birth. The studies varied in their risk of bias, and the quality of the studies was very low to moderate. 
Hands off (or poised) compared to hands on  
Using 'hands off' the perineum resulted in fewer women having an episiotomy (low‐quality evidence), but made no difference to numbers of women with no tears (moderate‐quality evidence), first‐degree tears (low‐quality evidence), second‐degree tears (low‐quality evidence), or third‐ or fourth‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence). There were considerable unexplained differences in results between the four studies. None of the studies provided data on the number of tears requiring suturing. 
Warm compresses versus control (hands off or no warm compress)  
Fewer women in the warm‐compress group experienced third‐ or fourth‐degree tears (moderate‐quality evidence). A warm compress did not affect numbers of women with intact perineum (moderate‐quality evidence), tears requiring suturing (very low‐quality evidence), second‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence), or episiotomies (low‐quality evidence). It is uncertain whether warm compresses increase or reduce the incidence of first‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence). 
Massage versus control (hands off or routine care)  
There were more women with an intact perineum in the perineal massage group (low‐quality evidence), and fewer women with third‐ or fourth‐degree tears (moderate‐quality evidence). Massage did not appear to make a difference to women with perineal trauma requiring suturing (very low‐quality evidence), first‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence), second‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence), or episiotomies (very low‐quality evidence). 
Ritgen's manoeuvre versus standard care  
One small study found that women who had Ritgen's manoeuvre had fewer first‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence), but more second‐degree tears (very low‐quality evidence). There was no difference between groups in terms of the number of third‐ or fourth‐degree tears, or episiotomies (both low‐quality evidence). 
