Follow‐up strategies for participants treated for non‐metastatic colorectal cancer
What is the issue? 
Colorectal cancer affects about 1 in 20 people in high‐income countries. Most patients (about two thirds) have curable disease. Follow‐up after surgical resection +/‐ chemotherapy treatment usually means visits to the doctor as well as having some tests. Many people believe that follow‐up saves lives, but we are not sure how often the patient should see the doctor and what tests they should have, and when. 
Why is it important? 
Follow‐up is expensive, it can make patients anxious around the time of their visit, and can be inconvenient. Tests are expensive and can have side effects. If tests find that cancer has come back in a person who feels well, but treatment cannot cure them, finding the recurrent cancer may not have helped that person or their family. 
We asked... 
We asked if follow‐up (i.e. tests and doctor visits) after colorectal cancer has been treated curatively is helpful. We looked at all different kinds of follow‐up: some versus none; more tests versus fewer tests; and follow‐up done by surgeons, general practitioners (GPs), or nurses. 
We found... 
We found 19 studies, including 13,216 participants. Our results are presented along with a judgement of quality which reflects how certain we are about the results. We found that follow‐up did not improve overall survival (high‐quality evidence), colorectal cancer‐specific survival (moderate‐quality evidence), or relapse‐free survival (high‐quality evidence). If patients have follow‐up, they are much more likely to have surgery if the cancer is detected again (high‐quality evidence). With follow‐up, more asymptomatic 'silent' cancer relapses are likely to be found at planned visits (moderate‐quality evidence). Harmful side effects (harms) from tests were not common, but more intensive follow‐up may increase harms (reported in two studies; very low‐quality evidence). Costs may be increased with more intensive follow‐up (low‐quality evidence). More intensive follow‐up probably makes little or no difference for quality of life (moderate‐quality evidence). 
This means... 
The information we have now suggests that there is little benefit from intensifying follow‐up, but there is also little evidence about quality of life, harms, and costs. We do not know what is the best way to follow patients treated for non‐metastatic (no secondaries) colorectal cancer, or if we should at all. We know little about the costs of follow‐up in this setting. Consumer needs and concerns with respect to the value of follow‐up require further research. 
