Valproate preparations for the treatment of agitated behaviour in people with dementia
Background 
Agitated behaviour is very common in the later stages of dementia. It can include verbal behaviours, such as shouting, and physical behaviours, such as wandering or physical aggression. It has been shown to worsen the stress experienced by family carers, increase the risk of injury, and increase the need for people with dementia to move into institutional care. 
A type of medication that has been used to treat agitated behaviour in people who have dementia is valproate, which is available in several different preparations (valproic acid, divalproex sodium, sodium valproate, and valproate semi‐sodium). These medications are not recommended in current guidelines (e.g. from the National Institute for Health and Care Excellence), but are sometimes still given to people with dementia to treat agitated behaviour. 
Purpose of this review 
We wanted to review the evidence about how effective and safe it is to give valproate preparations to people with dementia to treat agitation. 
Studies included in this review 
We searched medical databases up to December 2017 for studies that compared any preparation of valproate with a placebo (dummy tablet) to treat agitated behaviour in people diagnosed with dementia. 
We included five studies with 479 participants who had various types of dementia and agitated behaviour. Most studies lasted for six weeks, although one was only three weeks long. The studies were generally well conducted, but the methods were not always fully reported and one study was at high risk of bias because of the high number of people who dropped out from the valproate‐treated group. 
Key findings 
Studies measured agitated behaviour with various scales and the reliability of the evidence for the different scales ranged from moderate to very low. Overall, we found no evidence that valproate preparations improved behaviour, or specifically, agitated behaviour. We found that valproate preparations probably had little or no effect on participants' ability to perform daily activities. We could not be sure whether they had an effect on cognition (thinking and remembering) because the reliability of the evidence was very low. 
We found low‐reliability evidence from three studies that participants taking valproate may be more likely than those taking placebo to experience harmful effects. We could not be as certain about differences in serious harms, such as serious illness or admission to hospital, but data from two studies suggested that these may be more common in the participants taking valproate. Some of the side effects associated with valproate were sleepiness, feeling sick, being sick, watery stools, and urinary tract infections. 
