Which is the best treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding?
Key results 
Evidence suggests that the levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) is the best first‐line option for reducing menstrual bleeding, while antifibrinolytics are probably the second best, and long‐cycle progestogens are the third best. Because of some limitations in the evidence, we are not sure what the true effect of these first‐line treatments is for the perception of improvement and satisfaction. 
For second‐line treatments, evidence suggests any type of hysterectomy is the best treatment for reducing bleeding, even though this is a major surgery, and resectoscopic endometrial ablation (REA) and non‐resectoscopic endometrial ablation (NREA) are second and third best. We are uncertain of the true effect of the second‐line treatments on amenorrhoea (absence of menstrual blood loss). Evidence suggests that minimally invasive hysterectomy results in a large increase in satisfaction, and NREA increases satisfaction, but we are uncertain of the true effect of the remaining interventions. 
What is heavy menstrual bleeding? 
Heavy menstrual bleeding is defined as excessive menstrual blood loss that interferes with the quality of life of people who menstruate. It is very common and can affect 20% to 50% of people who menstruate during their reproductive years. There are different treatments available, each with their own pros and cons. The best treatment depends on the person's age, whether they have or want to have children, their personal preferences, and their medical history, among other things. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to get an overview of all the published evidence on different treatments for heavy menstrual bleeding. We were most interested in finding out if the treatments were effective for reducing menstrual bleeding and for improving women's satisfaction. We also wanted to know how the treatment affected quality of life, what side effects it caused, and whether women required further treatment. 
