High‐dose chemotherapy and haematopoietic cell transplantation for children, adolescents, and young adults with metastatic Ewing sarcoma at diagnosis 
Review question 
We were looking for evidence on whether high‐dose chemotherapy plus autologous haematopoietic cell transplantation (intravenous infusion of stem cells collected previously from the patient to re‐establish bone marrow) improved event‐free survival, overall survival, quality‐adjusted survival, and progression‐free survival better than conventional chemotherapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with primary metastatic Ewing sarcoma (cancer that has spread to other parts of the body at time of diagnosis). We were also looking for adverse effects that occurred because of these treatments. 
Background 
Ewing sarcoma is a tumour that usually occurs in the bone and soft tissue of children and young adults. People with metastatic Ewing sarcoma at diagnosis have a poor chance of survival. Less than 30% of affected people survive after five years. People with solitary lung metastases have a better chance of survival (50% survival after five years). Current treatment consists of multidrug chemotherapy combined with surgery, radiotherapy, or both. Improved therapy is essential for these people. 
We conducted this review to find out whether high‐dose chemotherapy, combined with autologous haematopoietic cell transplantation can help to improve survival in children, adolescents, and young adults with metastatic Ewing sarcoma at diagnosis, compared to conventional chemotherapy. 
Study characteristics 
We identified one study (267 participants, who were included over a 15‐year period, from 144 international centres) that compared high dose chemotherapy plus autologous haematopoietic cell transplantation with conventional chemotherapy and whole lung irradiation in children, adolescents, and young adults with Ewing sarcoma with pulmonary metastases at diagnosis. 
Key results 
In young people with pulmonary metastatic Ewing sarcoma at diagnosis, low‐certainty evidence from one study found no clear difference between treatment groups in event‐free survival. There were no data available for overall survival, quality‐adjusted survival, adverse effects, or progression‐free survival. We did not find any studies that addressed children, adolescents, and young adults with Ewing sarcoma that had metastasised to locations besides the lungs at diagnosis. We need high‐quality research before definite conclusions can be made. 
