Is it safer to deliver a baby immediately or wait if the mother has high blood pressure after 34 weeks of pregnancy that is not persistently severe? 
What is the issue? 
Women who have high blood pressure (hypertension) during pregnancy or who develop pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure with protein in the urine or other organ systems involvement, or both) can develop serious complications. Potential complications for the mother are worsening of pre‐eclampsia, development of seizures and eclampsia, HELLP syndrome (haemolysis, elevated liver enzymes and low platelet count), detachment of the placenta, liver failure, renal failure, and difficulty breathing because of fluid in the lungs. 
Delivering the baby usually stops the mother’s high blood pressure from getting worse, but a baby who is born prematurely may have other health problems, such as difficulty breathing, because the lungs are still immature. Induction of labour can lead to overstimulation of contractions and fetal distress. The alternative is waiting to deliver the baby while closely monitoring both the mother and her baby. 
Why is this important? 
As there are both benefits and risks to planned early delivery compared with waiting when the mother has high blood pressure toward the end of pregnancy, we wanted to know which is the safest option. We looked for clinical trials that compared planned early delivery, by induction of labour or by caesarean section, with a policy of delayed delivery of the baby. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 12 January 2016 and found five randomised studies, involving 1819 women. Two of the studies were large, high‐quality studies, in women with gestational hypertension, mild pre‐eclampsia or deteriorating existing hypertension at 34 to 37 weeks (704 women) or with gestational hypertension or mild pre‐eclampsia at 36 to 41 weeks (756 women). Fewer women who received planned early delivery experienced severe adverse outcomes (1459 women, high‐quality evidence). There was not enough information to draw any conclusions about the effects on the number of babies born with poor health, with a high level of variability between the two studies (1459 infants, low‐quality evidence). There was no clear difference between planned early delivery and delayed delivery for the number of caesarean sections (four studies, 1728 women, moderate‐quality evidence), or the duration of the mother’s hospital stay after the birth of the baby (two studies, 925 women, moderate‐quality evidence) (or for the baby (one study, 756 infants, moderate‐quality evidence)). More babies who were delivered early had breathing problems (respiratory distress syndrome, three studies, 1511 infants), or were admitted to the neonatal unit (four studies, 1585 infants). Fewer women who delivered early developed HELLP syndrome (three studies, 1628 women) or severe kidney problems (one study, 100 women). 
Two studies compared women who had labour induced at 34 to 36 weeks and at 34 to 37 weeks with a comparison group who were monitored until 37 weeks, when induction was begun if labour had not started spontaneously. Three studies compared induction of labour at term or closer to term, at 37 completed weeks and at 36 to 41 weeks, with women who were monitored until 41 weeks when induction was begun if labour had not started spontaneously. Other inclusion and exclusion criteria also differed between the five studies. 
No studies attempted to blind the women or their clinicians to which group they were in. Women and staff were aware of the intervention and this may have affected aspects of care and decision‐making. Most of the evidence was of moderate quality, so we can be moderately certain about the findings. 
