What is the evidence for stopping long‐acting beta2‐agonists for adults with stable asthma using combination therapy? 
Stopping long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABA) for adults whose asthma is stable with LABA and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) treatment may increase the number of asthma attacks that require treatment with extra corticosteroids, but this remains uncertain. Stopping LABA may also slightly reduce quality of life and asthma control. We could not tell whether stopping LABA changed serious side effects or the likelihood of having to go to the hospital for an asthma attack. 
Why is the question important? 
Poorly controlled asthma often leads to attacks that require additional medications, hospital stays or treatment in the emergency department. Long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABA) are inhaled drugs that can be added to inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) to improve symptoms and reduce asthma attacks for adults whose asthma is not well controlled by ICS alone. However, some drug authorities have issued warnings for LABA in asthma because of safety concerns and now recommend that they be used for the shortest duration possible, then stopped once control of asthma symptoms is achieved. We believed it was important to assess evidence provided by high‐quality studies. 
How did we answer the question? 
We looked for studies at least 8 weeks' long that compared a group of people with stable asthma who stopped taking LABA versus a group who continued taking ICS+LABA together. We were mainly interested in determining whether stopping LABA had an effect on asthma attacks, asthma control or side effects. 
What did we find out? 
We included in the data analyses five studies of people with stable asthma. We rated the overall quality of evidence as moderate for most outcomes, meaning that additional studies are likely to change our confidence in what we found. It looked as though people who stopped LABA might be more likely to have asthma attacks needing treatment with oral steroids, but this is uncertain. Over 17 weeks, 19 of 1000 people continuing their LABA had an attack, compared with 32 of 1000 who stopped taking LABA. This means that 13 more people in 1000 would have an attack if they stopped their LABA, but the uncertainty meant that between 3 fewer and 46 more could be affected. 
Asthma control and asthma‐related quality of life were a bit worse among people who stopped taking LABA, and we could not tell whether stopping LABA increased serious side effects or admission to the hospital. 
