Using a vitamin and mineral powder, mixed into complementary foods, to improve health and nutrition in children under two years of age 
Review question 
Does using a vitamin and mineral powder, mixed into complementary foods, improve health and nutrition in children under two years of age? 
Background 
Deficiencies of vitamins and minerals, particularly of iron, vitamin A, and zinc, affect more than two billion people worldwide. Young children are highly vulnerable because of rapid growth and inadequate dietary practices. Exclusive breastfeeding until six months of age, followed by complementary feeding combined with continued breastfeeding for at least two years, is recommended to maintain children's adequate health and nutrition. After six months of age, infants start to receive semi‐solid foods, but the quantities of vitamins and minerals can be insufficient to fulfil all of their requirements for growth and development. Multiple micronutrient powders (MNPs) are single‐dose packets of powder containing iron, vitamin A, zinc, and other vitamins and minerals that can be mixed into any semi‐solid food at home or at any other point of use, to increase the content of essential vitamins and minerals in the diet of infants and young children during this period. This is done without making any other changes to their usual diet. 
Study characteristics 
We searched up to July 2019 for all studies that assessed the use of MNP for improving the health and nutrition of children under two years of age. We included 29 studies that involved 33,147 infants and young children from low‐ and middle‐income countries in Asia, Africa, Latin America, and the Caribbean. Twenty‐six studies with 27,051 children contributed data. Of these 26 studies, 24 compared the use of MNP versus no intervention or placebo, and 2 compared the use of MNP versus an iron‐only supplement (iron drops) given daily. We found that a variety of MNP formulations containing between 5 and 22 vitamins and minerals were given for 2 to 44 months to infants and young children aged 6 to 23 months. Most studies were funded by government programmes or foundations; only 2 were funded by industry. 
Key results 
The use of MNP containing at least iron, zinc, and vitamin A for home fortification of foods was associated with reduced risk of anaemia of 18% and iron deficiency of 53% in children aged six months to two years compared with no intervention. Also, haemoglobin concentration and iron status improved. Studies did not find any effects on growth. There was no additional benefit in reducing risk of anaemia and improving haemoglobin concentration compared to usually recommended iron drops or syrups; however, only two studies compared these different interventions. No trials reported death attributable to the intervention. Information on deaths, side effects, and morbidity, including malaria and diarrhoea, was scarce. The use of MNP was beneficial for young children 6 to 23 months of age, independent of whether they lived in settings with different anaemia and malaria backgrounds and regardless of the length of the intervention. 
