Should radiofrequency ablation be used in patients with liver colorectal metastases? 
Colorectal cancer is one of the most common malignant tumour worldwide and approximately 50 % of patients will develop liver metastases (liver is the first site of metastatic disease). Hepatic resection is the only curative option, but only 15‐20% of patients with liver metastases from colorectal cancer are suitable for surgical standard treatment. Besides chemotherapy, several minimally invasive treatment techniques have been developed to treat patients with CRLMs: hepatic arterial infusion, cryotherapy, microwave ablation, selective internal radion treatment, radiofrequency ablation. During the past decade radiofrequency ablation has superseded other ablative therapies, due to its low morbidity, mortality, safety and patient acceptability. Radiofrequency ablation is a minimally invasive technique in which a needle is inserted into the tumour (liver metastases) either getting access by way of the skin (percutaneously) or via open approach (surgically). Alternating current is generated using radio waves and, through needle, create local tissue temperatures of 50‐100˚C temperature, that causes “coagulation” and tumour necrosis. According to several studies RFA is technically feasible and safe for the treatment of CRLMs, however little is known about its efficacy in terms of overall survival (OS), disease free survival (DFS) and local recurrence. The aim of this review was to see if the treatment of CRLMs with RFA provides more benefit in terms of overall survival, disease free survival and local recurrence. This review include 18 studies (10 observational studies, 7 CCTs and an additional 1 RCT) comparing radiofrequency ablation with any other treatment. The heterogeneity regarding interventions, comparisons and outcomes rendered the data unusable and unsuitable for drawing conclusions. There is insufficient evidence to recommend the use of radiofrequency ablation for a radical treatment of liver metastases from colorectal cancer. High quality randomised clinical trials are required to answer on the potential benefit and harms associated with the use of radiofrequency ablation in the treatment of liver metastases from colorectal cancer. 
