Morning versus evening induction of labour for improving outcomes for women and their babies 
Getting labour started artificially (induction) is a common intervention in obstetric practice. In the Western world, labour is induced for one in every four pregnant women, mostly for reasons related to increased risk for the mother such as high blood pressure, diabetes or increased risk for the infant such as suspected growth retardation or prolonged pregnancy. Traditionally, in most hospitals, induction of labour starts early in the morning, with the start of the working day. In human and animal studies however, spontaneous onset of labour is proven to have a circadian rhythm with preference for start in the evening. Moreover, when spontaneous labour starts in the evening, total duration of labour shortens and less obstetric interventions are needed. Based on these observations one might assume, that starting induction of labour in harmony with the circadian rhythm of natural birth is more beneficial. This review found three studies that were of high quality with a total of 1150 women randomly allocated to induction in the morning or the evening. One trial used intravenous oxytocin in women who had a dilated cervix or rupture of membranes and two trials used prostaglandins to induce labour. Prostaglandins are hormones used when the cervix is not ripe, intravenous oxytocin is mostly needed afterwards to really get labour started. Therefore, these two different methods, prostaglandins and intravenous oxytocin, rely on a different mechanism and were assessed separately. This review found no differences in effect between starting induction in morning or evening on outcomes for mother or child. The risk of a vaginal birth using instruments, or risk of a caesarian section and use of epidural anaesthesia did not clearly differ between groups. One study reported that women had a preference to start induction of labour with prostaglandins in the morning, and more women in the evening admission group did not like the interruptions to sleep that were associated with the induction protocol. This review, with only three studies with two different comparisons, concludes that induction of labour in the evening is as effective and safe as induction in the morning. However, given the preference of most women, administration of prostaglandins should preferably be done in the morning. 
