Approaches to help people with COPD who have one or more long‐term conditions
What is COPD and comorbidity? 
COPD is a common condition caused mainly by smoking and can lead to long‐term breathing problems. Symptoms include shortness of breath, and cough with sputum production due to airways and lung damage. People with COPD may have one or more other long‐term conditions (comorbidities) such as heart disease, hypertension, diabetes, asthma and lung cancer which can lead to poor health. People living with two or more comorbidities can also be known as living with multimorbidity. 
Why did we do this review?  
Because many people with COPD live with multimorbidity, naturally people in clinical trials will have multimorbidities. However, the results of those trials are usually not reported broken down by multimorbidity. People with comorbidities may need to adapt interventions to take account of their comorbidity — for example taking exercise in water instead of on land so that their bodies are better supported. Historically, Cochrane Airways Reviews have not taken into account people's comorbidities, and this review is a first step to addressing this. We decided to complete a review that centres on people with COPD and comorbidities following a meeting with our COPD patient group, who highlighted concerns over comorbidities. After some deliberation, we decided to include the following two sorts of trials. 
1. Any single intervention for COPD delivered to people with COPD adapted to or targeting their comorbidity compared to routine care or any other intervention. 
2. Any intervention aimed at changing the management of people with COPD and comorbidities, which could be simple (e.g. scheduling COPD and heart clinics on the same day) or more complex (e.g. developing a new care package for management of people with COPD across a local health service), compared to routine care. 
We wanted to know which treatments improve quality of life and reduce exacerbations for people living with COPD and one or more comorbidities. 
We also wanted to find out about how people with COPD, carers and health professionals felt about those treatments. 
What information did we find? 
We carried out a search for studies in January 2021. We found seven  eligible randomised controlled trials (RCTs) including 1197 people, and one qualitative study which was part of one of the randomised trials and provided information about people's opinions and experiences of using telehealth equipment. People included in the trials were aged between 64 and 72 years, and their COPD severity ranged from mild to very severe. The trials either included people with COPD and a specific comorbidity such as cardiovascular disease or lung cancer, or they included people with COPD and one or more other conditions of any sort. 
Results and conclusions 
There is not enough evidence on people with COPD and other comorbidities to draw firm conclusions about interventions aimed at COPD that are adapted for the comorbidity. The available evidence indicated the following:  
‐ Quality of life as measured by the St George's Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ) total score may improve with tailored pulmonary rehabilitation compared to usual care (note that there is a strong evidence base for pulmonary rehabilitation in people with COPD). 
‐ Pulmonary rehabilitation is likely to improve quality of life as measured by the COPD assessment test (CAT) scores compared with usual care at 52 weeks and with a multicomponent telehealth intervention.  
‐ Evidence is uncertain about the effects of pharmacotherapy optimisation or telemonitoring interventions on CAT improvement compared with usual care. 
‐ There may be little to no difference in the number of people experiencing exacerbations, or mean exacerbations with case management compared with usual care.  
‐ For secondary outcomes, the distance walked by participants in six minutes may improve with pulmonary rehabilitation, water‐based exercise or multicomponent interventions. A multicomponent intervention may result in fewer people being admitted to hospital, although there may be little to no difference in a telemonitoring intervention.  
‐ There may be little to no difference between intervention and usual care for deaths across several studies. 
‐ One study compared water‐based exercise with land‐based exercise. We found no evidence for quality of life or exacerbations. There may be little to no difference between water‐ and land‐based exercise on the distance walked by participants in six minutes. 
‐ One qualitative study explored perceptions and experiences of people with COPD and long‐term conditions, and of researchers and health professionals who were involved in an RCT of telemonitoring equipment. Several themes were identified, including health status, beliefs and concerns, reliability of equipment, self‐efficacy, perceived ease of use, factors affecting usefulness and perceived usefulness, attitudes and intention, self‐management and changes in healthcare use.  
