Membrane sweeping for induction of labour
What is the question? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review is to find out if membrane sweeping is a safe and effective way of inducing labour at or near term and if it is more effective than the formal methods of induction. 
Why is this important? 
Most commonly, formal induction of labour is offered to women when continuing with a pregnancy is considered probably more harmful for the mother or baby than the adverse effects of induction. The most common reason for formal induction of labour is post‐term pregnancy (pregnancies that continue past 42 weeks' gestation). 
Membrane sweeping is a relatively simple, low‐cost procedure that seeks to reduce the use of formal induction of labour and it can be performed without the need for hospitalisation. It involves the clinician inserting one or two fingers into the lower part of the uterus (the cervix) and using a continuous circular sweeping motion to free the membrane from the lower uterus. Formal induction of labour involves artificially stimulating the uterus with drugs such as prostaglandins or oxytocin or by breaking the amniotic sack that holds the baby (breaking the waters). 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 25 February 2019. We included 44 randomised studies that reported findings for 6940 women from a wide range of countries including high‐, middle‐ and low‐income countries. 
Studies compared membrane sweeping with no intervention or sham intervention, and also compared membrane sweeping with vaginal or intracervical prostaglandins, oral misoprostol, oxytocin and repeated membrane sweeping. 
Of the seven studies that reported financial funding, two studies reported funding from pharmaceutical companies. Overall, the certainty of the evidence was found to be low. 
Key results 
Compared with no intervention or a sham sweep (40 studies involving 6548 women), allocated to membrane sweeping may be more likely to have spontaneous onset of labour, but we found no clear difference in unassisted vaginal births. Women may also be less likely to have formal induction of labour. We also found no clear differences between the groups for caesarean section, instrumental vaginal births or serious illness or death of the mother or baby. 
Compared with vaginal or intracervical prostaglandins (four studies involving 480 women), we found no difference in any outcomes although data were limited. 
We found insufficient data to draw any conclusions in the studies comparing membrane sweep with intravenous oxytocin, with or without breaking the waters, or with vaginal/oral misoprostol. Similarly for the comparison between different frequencies of membrane sweeping. 
What does this mean? 
Membrane sweeping appears to be effective in promoting labour but current evidence suggests this did not, overall, follow‐on to unassisted vaginal births. Membrane sweeping may reduce formal induction of labour. Only three studies reported on women’s satisfaction with membrane sweeping. Women reported feeling positive about membrane sweeping. While acknowledging that it may be uncomfortable, they felt the benefits outweighed the harms and most would recommend it to other women. Further research is needed to confirm our review findings and to identify the ideal time for membrane sweep and whether having more than one sweep would be beneficial. Further information on women’s views is also needed. 
