Opioid maintenance medicines for the treatment of dependence on opioid pain medicines
Key messages 
1. Methadone may keep more people in treatment than buprenorphine.
2. People reported less opioid use with methadone than buprenorphine, although when testing urine for opioid use there was no difference between groups.  
3. Buprenorphine maintenance probably keeps more people in treatment and may be better at helping people reduce opioid use than non‐opioid treatments. 
What is dependence on opioid pain medicines? 
Use of pharmaceutical opioids (medicines that are used to treat pain) has increased dramatically in some parts of the world since the mid‐1990s. With the increased use, there has been increasing numbers of people seeking treatment for dependence (addiction) on pharmaceutical opioids. Currently, most treatment guidelines are based on research that was conducted in people who were dependent on heroin (a highly addictive opioid). People who use pharmaceutical opioids may differ from people who use heroin in important ways, such as having a higher prevalence of chronic pain and mental health symptoms.  
What did we want to find out? 
This review sought to compare different opioid agonist maintenance treatments (i.e. treatments such as methadone or buprenorphine that are given for at least 30 days to help the person to reduce their unsanctioned medicine use) for the treatment of pharmaceutical opioid dependence. We also compared results from maintenance treatment to short‐term treatments such as detoxification (removal of the drug from the body) or psychological treatments (e.g. talking therapy, counselling). 
What did we do? 
We examined the scientific literature up to January 2022. We identified eight randomised controlled trials (studies where people were allocated at random to one of two or more treatment or control conditions) involving 709 adults and adolescents who were dependent on pharmaceutical opioids. Seventy percent of the people in the studies were male, and had an average age of 32.0 years. The average duration of the studies comparing different opioid maintenance treatments (four studies that compared methadone to buprenorphine) was 21 weeks, and the average duration of studies comparing a maintenance treatment (four studies with buprenorphine maintenance) to detoxification, an opioid antagonist, or psychological treatment was 14 weeks. Seven of the eight studies were conducted in the USA, with one study from Iran. 
The main outcomes we examined were opioid use and leaving treatment early.
The National Institutes of Health (USA) funded seven studies, with one study not reporting the funding source. Five studies reported that a pharmaceutical company provided the medicine. 
What did we find? 
We found that when comparing methadone with buprenorphine maintenance treatments, methadone may keep more people in treatment than buprenorphine. People on methadone may report less opioid use than people on buprenorphine, although when testing urine for opioid use there was no difference between methadone and buprenorphine. When comparing buprenorphine maintenance to other non‐opioid treatments such as detoxification, opioid antagonists like naltrexone, or psychological treatments, buprenorphine probably keeps more people in treatment, and may be better at helping people reduce opioid use. 
What were the limitations of the evidence? 
Overall, the evidence was of low to moderate quality. All studies put people into treatment groups randomly, but the participants and researchers knew which medication the participants were taking, which could bias the results and lower the quality of the evidence. In some studies, many people did not finish the study, leading to a meaningful amount of missing data which may bias the results. In some studies, there were more missing results in one arm of the study than the other. Most of the studies were similar in design and results were collected in a way that allowed them to compare the main outcomes of opioid use and number of people completing the study.  
How up to date is this evidence? 
The evidence is current to January 2022.
