Infection risk after surgery in patients using medications for inflammatory bowel disease 
Background  
More than 1.2 million individuals in North America are affected by inflammatory bowel disease (IBD). It is a condition that involves inflammation in the large and/or small intestine(s), resulting in symptoms such as diarrhea and abdominal pain. Many of the medications used to treat IBD suppress the immune system. As a result, use of these medications increases the risk of infection. This increased risk of infection is particularly concerning in patients undergoing surgery. 
Review Question  
This systematic review examined the combined data from 68 previously published studies to determine whether patients using IBD medications around the time of surgery had more infections compared to those not using the same medications. 
Study Characteristics  
This systematic review is current up to 29 October 2019. It included 68 studies in patients with IBD who underwent surgery. Most participants were 18 years or older and both men and women were included. Five IBD medication groups were examined within our study. Infections were tracked up to 30 days after surgery. 
Key Results  
Analyses of this large set of data revealed that infection risk around the time of surgery varied depending on which type of IBD medication the patients were on. Patients being treated with corticosteroids or anti‐TNF agents seemed to have more infections after surgery, while those on 5‐ASA, immunomodulators or anti‐integrin agents did not seem to have more infections after surgery. These findings should be taken with caution as our review included studies which were of limited quality, and therefore we were not able to draw any firm conclusions.These findings could help doctors choose which medications to treat IBD patients with before surgery. Decisions should be tailored to each patient's unique health needs. In addition, this study suggests the need to carefully monitor for infections after surgery in patients who are on certain types of IBD medications.  
