Which drug combinations are best for prevention of nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy in adults with cancer? 
The burden of nausea and vomiting caused by chemotherapy and what helps to prevent it? 
In about 70% to 80% of adults with cancer, chemotherapy induces nausea and vomiting (CINV). Depending on the type of chemotherapy, treatment can cause strong or moderate sickness (hereafter referred to as HEC (highly emetogenic chemotherapy) and MEC (moderately emetogenic chemotherapy)). Multiple drug combinations have showed high benefit for CINV among adults receiving HEC or MEC. 
What was the aim of our review? 
Using a network meta‐analysis, we aimed to compare the benefits and harms of different drug combinations for prevention of CINV among people receiving HEC or MEC, and to identify treatment ranking. A network meta‐analysis is a technique used to compare different treatments described in already published trials, even when the original individual trial does not describe such comparisons. 
What studies did we look at? 
We searched selected medical databases and trial registries until February 2021. We included studies comparing multiple drug combinations for prevention of CINV among adults with any type of cancer receiving HEC or MEC that is commonly used in clinical practice. In particular, we looked at drugs inhibiting two specific biochemical receptors (neurokinin receptor and serotonin receptor) that trigger nausea and vomiting after chemotherapy. We looked at the preventative effects of these treatments over five days. This is the period during which the maximum intensity of CINV and further peaks of intensity are expected, after the start of chemotherapy.  
Our key results... 
...for people receiving HEC  
We found 73 studies that reported on the experience of 25,275 participants and compared 14 treatment combinations of our interest.  
Benefits.  Over five days, investigated treatments helped to prevent any vomiting in 60% to 81% of people on average. Those individuals also had no need for rescue medicines, which are used in case nausea and vomiting occur even though prophylactic treatment has been given. The results of our analysis suggest some differences in effectiveness of different treatments, but overall we had little confidence that those differences would be reflected in real‐world observations.  
Harms.  We estimated that 1% to 4% of people experience serious side effects. The differences between treatments were small.  
...for people receiving MEC  
We found 38 studies that reported on the experience of 12,038 participants and compared 15 treatment combinations of our interest. 
Benefits. Over five days, investigated treatments helped prevent any vomiting in 43% to 72% of people on average. Those individuals also had no need for rescue medicines. The results of our analysis suggest some differences in the effectiveness of different treatments, but overall, we had little confidence that those differences would be reflected in real‐world observations.  
Harms.  Few studies reported serious side effects. The ones that did suggest that on average 15% to 18% of people experience such events. Differences between treatments were small. However, we think that future research is needed to rule out potential differences between treatments.  
Our confidence in the findings 
We assessed how confident we were that there are differences between compared treatments. We had low or very low confidence that one treatment is better or worse than another in preventing CINV. Our confidence in differences between statistical results was mainly limited because measures of variation were wide apart and included both potential advantages and disadvantages, although measures of precision showed no or little effect. We also identified limitations in some of the included studies, which further limited our confidence in the effects. This was mainly the case when study personnel and participants knew which treatments were given and therefore may not adhere to the planned intervention, or may perceive or report effects differently.  
Our conclusions 
The results of our analysis suggest that there is no superior drug combination for prevention of CINV for people receiving HEC or MEC. However, results suggest that the choice of drugs targeting the serotonin receptor may impact effectiveness, irrespective of whether given with or without a drug targeting the neurokinin receptor. However, when interpreting these results, it is important for the reader to understand that these kinds of multiple‐comparison analyses are no substitute for head‐to‐head comparisons, and that the results do not necessarily rule out differences that could be clinically relevant for some individuals. 
How up‐to‐date is this evidence? 
Evidence is up‐to‐date to 2 February 2021.
