Milrinone to prevent reduced heart function and death after heart surgery in children
Background: Children who are born with heart defects often undergo heart surgery at a young age. They are at risk for reduced heart function and death after surgery. Milrinone is a medication that may be used in this situation to make the heart stronger and make it easier for the heart to pump blood into the body. 
Review question: We wanted to examine if the prophylactic use of milrinone prevents reduced heart function or death in babies and children from birth up to 12 years of age having had heart surgery. We planned to consider the number of children who died during the first 30 days after surgery as well as how many days they lived after surgery, followed up for three months. We searched a number of medical literature databases electronically which collect information about planned, ongoing, or finished studies, in order to find trials of this medication published by September 2014. Trials where children had received milrinone and another group of children had received another drug instead after heart surgery were considered. Data were collected by two review authors independently who had to use a pre‐prepared work sheet. 
Study characteristics: We found five studies, and we asked the study authors for more information. Three studies compared milrinone versus levosimendan, one study compared milrinone versus placebo, and one compared milrinone versus dobutamine. The patients were given the study drugs for 24 to 48 hours and were watched for six to 78 days. A total of 393 participants were included. 
Quality of evidence: Thus, the data are from a limited number of small trials and therefore must be viewed with caution. In addition, it was not always clear that the patient groups were formed and treated in a way that would make them completely comparable, that patients stayed in the trial for complete assessment, or that all study results were reported conscientiously. 
Key results: In one study comparing two doses of milrinone and placebo, milrinone was better than placebo to prevent reduced heart function within 36 hours after surgery, but there was not enough information about long‐term heart function beyond the first postoperative days. It was not shown whether milrinone was better than placebo or than any of the other medications to prevent death, or whether the intensive care unit stay or hospital stay or time on mechanical ventilation was shorter if patients received milrinone. Similarly, when examining the studies regarding side effects of milrinone, we could not prove that milrinone caused more heart rhythm disturbances than dobutamine or placebo, or how it affected heart rhythm compared with levosimendan. We could not generate other useful information from comparing the trials regarding other harms which had been previously ascribed to milrinone, such as high heart rate, low blood pressure, bleeding into the brain's ventricular fluid, low potassium level in the blood, narrowing of the airways, low numbers of platelets in the blood, altered liver function tests, or low measurements of heart function by ultrasound. This was in part due to the different trial designs. 
