Alternative agents instead of platelet transfusions to prevent bleeding for people who have bone marrow disorders and low platelet counts 
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence about whether giving agents that can replace, or reduce platelet transfusion (artificial platelets, platelet‐poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa), recombinant factor XIII (rFXIII), recombinant interleukin (rIL)6 or rIL11, desmopressin (DDAVP), thrombopoietin (TPO) mimetics or antifibrinolytic drugs), to people with a low platelet count prevents bleeding and whether these alternative agents are associated with side effects. Our target population was people with bone marrow disorders which prevent them from producing enough platelets. We excluded people undergoing intensive chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation. 
Background 
People with low platelet counts due to bone marrow disorders are vulnerable to bleeding which may be severe or life‐threatening. In order to treat, or prevent bleeding, they are often given platelet transfusions. However, platelet transfusions are associated with risks such as infection and transfusion reactions. Consequently, there is interest in whether it is possible to use alternative treatments to prevent bleeding. These treatments include: man‐made platelets (artificial platelets); stimulating the person's body to produce more platelets (recombinant interleukin (rIL)6, rIL11, TPO mimetics); increasing the levels of proteins in the blood that help the body to form a clot (platelet‐poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII (rFVIIa), recombinant factor XIII (rFXIII)); and preventing a blood clot from breaking down (antifibrinolytics) There may be risks associated with agents that prevent bleeding; the most important being an increased risk of forming unwanted blood clots, which could be potentially life‐threatening. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to April 2016. We identified 11 randomised controlled trials, of which seven had been completed. Of the seven completed trials, five trials (456 participants) assessed TPO mimetics, one trial (eight participants) assessed tranexamic acid and one trial (eight participants) assessed DDAVP. The trial of DDAVP only assessed the bleeding time: the time taken for bleeding to stop after a small cut is made in the participant's forearm. It did not assess any of the outcomes of interest to this review. The trial of tranexamic acid had significant methodological flaws in the way bleeding was reported. No randomised trial of artificial platelet substitutes, platelet‐poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, rFVIIa, rFXIII, rIL6 or rIL11 was identified. Consequently, quantitative analysis was only performed on the five trials assessing TPO mimetics. Four of these trials included adults with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS) and one trial assessed adults with MDS or acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). We assessed all five trials of TPO mimetics included in this review to be at high risk as the manufacturers if the TPO mimetics were directly involved in the design and publication of the trials. 
Differences in severity of disease and number of participants undergoing chemotherapy between trials meant that network meta‐analysis could not be performed. A requirement of network meta‐analysis is that participants in each trial should meet the eligibility criteria for each trial that is included. 
The four ongoing trials are all comparing TPO mimetics versus placebo; they are expected to recruit 837 participants in total and are due to be completed by December 2020. 
