Baclofen for alcohol use disorder
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of baclofen for treating people with alcohol use disorder (AUD), who are currently drinking, in order to achieve and maintain abstinence (stopping drinking), or to reduce alcohol consumption. 
AUD and alcohol‐related impairments belong to the most widespread psychiatric disorders, leading to specific physical, mood, learning and memory problems and consequences for overall well‐being and health. The misuse of alcohol is one of the biggest risks to health worldwide, causing 20% to 30% of oesophageal cancer, liver disease, epilepsy, motor vehicle accidents, homicide and other intentional injuries. 
For many years, the main treatments for AUD have been psychosocial strategies, but using only psychosocial treatments has limited success. A high proportion of people with AUD do not respond to the treatment at all, and those who do respond do not stay alcohol‐free in the long‐term. Drugs, such as baclofen, could play an important role in treating people with AUD. 
Search date The evidence is current to January 2018. 
Study characteristics 
We found 12 randomised controlled trials (studies where people were allocated at random to one of two or more treatment or control groups), with 1128 participants. On average, the interventions lasted about five months, while investigators followed up participants from between 4 to 52 months. Five studies took place in the USA and one each in Australia, France, Germany, India, Israel, Italy, and the Netherlands. 
The studies considered baclofen at different doses (ranging from 10 mg a day to 150 mg a day), and in some cases, the doses were increased during the treatment. None of the studies added other drugs or other treatments to the baclofen treatment. All the studies compared baclofen to placebo, except for one study that compared baclofen to acamprosate at a dose of 666.66 mg three times a day for three months. 
Key results Compared with placebo, baclofen makes little or no difference to participants who dropped out from treatment, dropped out due to adverse events (side effects), or the number of participants with at least one adverse event. Baclofen probably makes little difference to the number of participants who start drinking again, nor to how much or how often they drink. Baclofen may make little or no difference in the percentage of days people remain alcohol‐free. 
Baclofen may increase the amount of use measured by number of drinks per drinking days. 
We found that baclofen increased adverse events like depression, vertigo, somnolence, numbness and muscle rigidity but we did not find significant differences between baclofen and placebo for other adverse events. 
