Cervical stitch for preventing preterm birth in women with a multiple pregnancy
Background  Carrying more than one baby increases a woman's risk of delivering preterm. The risks increase with the number of babies being carried. Babies born prematurely are more likely to experience poor outcomes including serious ill health and death. Cervical cerclage is a surgical procedure carried out during pregnancy to try to prevent preterm birth by limiting shortening and opening of the cervix. It is performed by placing suture material around the cervix, which is accessed either by the vagina or through the mother’s abdomen. The effectiveness and safety of this procedure for multiple gestations remains uncertain. The likelihood of spontaneous preterm birth can be assessed by looking at the mother’s obstetric history, a physical examination, or transvaginal ultrasound examination in the second trimester. 
Review question To assess whether the use of a cervical stitch in women with multiple gestations at high risk of pregnancy loss improves obstetrical and perinatal outcomes. 
Study Characteristics  We included five trials, which involved a total of 1577 women, comparing cerclage with no cerclage in women with either singleton and multiple gestations. After excluding singletons, our final analysis included 128 women, of which 122 were pregnant with twins, and six were pregnant with triplets. Cerclage was indicated by obstetric history in two trials (n = 73 women) and transvaginal ultrasound in three trials (n = 55 women). 
Main findings  When cerclage was compared with no cerclage in women with multiple gestations, there was no difference in perinatal deaths or neonatal ill health, or preterm birth rates. However, the number of women included in the five studies was insufficient to provide meaningful conclusions. 
The long‐term effect of cerclage on neurodevelopmental outcomes in the surviving infants and maternal infection and side‐ effects could not be estimated. It was therefore unclear if cerclage for women with multiple pregnancies puts the health of either the mothers or the infants at risk in any way. 
Quality of the evidence The five included studies were generally considered to be of average to above average quality, but three of the studies were difficult to assess fully because of missing methodological information. 
