Assisted reproductive technology: an overview of Cochrane Reviews
Review question 
What is the evidence on effectiveness and safety of procedures and treatment options available to couples with subfertility undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART) procedures. 
Background 
As many as one in six couples encounter problems with fertility, defined as failure to achieve a clinical pregnancy after regular intercourse for 12 months. Increasingly, couples are turning to assisted reproductive technology (ART) for help with conceiving and ultimately giving birth to a healthy live baby of their own. Fertility treatments are complex and costly, and each assisted reproduction cycle consists of several steps. If one of the steps is incorrectly applied, the stakes are high as conception may not occur. With this in mind, it is important that each step involved in ART is supported by good evidence from well‐designed studies. Cochrane reviewers examined the evidence from Cochrane systematic reviews on ART published in the Cochrane Library. 
Study characteristics 
We included 68 Cochrane systematic reviews on various stages of the ART cycle. All were of high quality. We included in the overview reviews of in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). We did not include reviews of intrauterine insemination (placing sperm inside a woman's uterus to facilitate fertilisation) or ovulation induction (stimulation of ovulation by medication). This overview provides the most up‐to‐date evidence from randomised controlled trials on ART cycles. The overview is up‐to‐date to May 2018. 
Key results 
The reviews identified 38 interventions that were effective (n = 23) or promising (n = 15), and they identified 19 interventions that were ineffective (n = 2) or possibly ineffective (n = 17). For 15 interventions, the reviews were unable to draw conclusions owing to lack of evidence. Use of evidence from this overview to guide clinical practice should help to improve live birth rates and reduce rates of multiple pregnancy, cycle cancellation, and ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. 
Quality of the evidence 
All included reviews were of high quality. The quality of the evidence for specific comparisons ranged from very low to high. 
