Exercise interventions for improving activity, participation and quality of life in people with cerebral palsy 
Review question 
Does exercise improve activity, participation in life situations and quality of life in people with cerebral palsy (CP)? 
Background 
Cerebral palsy (CP) is caused by an injury to an infant's brain that interrupts normal development. People with CP have reduced muscle strength and aerobic fitness, which may impact their ability to perform activities such as standing, walking, running and to participate in everyday life. Exercise is defined as a planned, structured and repetitive activity that aims to improve fitness. Aerobic exercise aims to improve aerobic fitness, while strength training aims to improve muscle strength. Health professionals often prescribe exercise to people with CP, primarily to improve function, but there has been no comprehensive evaluation of the evidence for the effectiveness of these interventions in people with CP. 
Study characteristics 
In June 2016 we searched for all studies that investigated the effectiveness of exercise for people with CP. We included 29 trials with a total of 926 participants with CP, 53% of whom were male. Five trials were conducted in the USA; four in Australia; two in Egypt, Korea, Saudi Arabia, Taiwan, the Netherlands, and the UK; three in Greece; and one apiece in India, Italy, Norway, South Africa. 
One trial included only adults with CP and three trials included adolescents and young adults. Most trials included children with CP who could walk independently, with or without a walking aid. Four trials also included people who used wheeled mobility devices (e.g. wheelchairs) in most settings and one trial included people who used wheeled mobility devices only. Three trials did not clearly report participants' functional ability and only two trials reported participants' manual ability (use of hands when handling objects). Eight trials compared aerobic exercise to usual care (i.e. the care a patient usually receives in practice), 15 trials compared resistance training (a type of exercise to improve muscular strength) to either usual care or no treatment, 4 trials compared mixed training (aerobic exercise and resistance training) to usual care or no treatment, and 2 trials compared aerobic exercise to resistance training. 
Key results 
Aerobic exercise may improve activity as indicated by motor function but does not appear to improve gait speed, walking endurance, participation or aerobic fitness among children with CP in the short or intermediate term. There is no research regarding the effect of aerobic exercise on participation or quality of life. 
Resistance training does not appear to improve motor function, gait speed or participation in the short or intermediate term, or quality of life in the short term, in children and adolescents with CP but may improve muscle strength. 
Mixed training does not improve motor function or gait speed but does improve participation in children and adolescents with CP in the short term. 
We found no difference between aerobic and resistance training on motor function but a difference in muscle strength in the short term. 
