Talking therapies and physical therapies for medically unexplained physical symptoms: a review of the evidence 
Who may be interested in this review? 
People with unexplained physical symptoms (somatoform disorders) and their family and friends. 
Professionals working with people with somatoform disorders or working in chronic pain services. 
General practitioners.
Why is this review important? 
Up to one in three people consulting their doctor about physical symptoms have medically unexplained physical symptoms (MUPS) that have no clear cause. MUPS are a key feature of health problems called somatoform disorders. MUPS and somatoform disorders often cause significant distress and cause people spending a lot of time consulting doctors and health professionals to try to find the cause of their symptoms and the correct treatment. 
Talking therapies for MUPS are recommended to help with mental health problems that exist alongside the physical symptoms, and to help people change the way they think about their physical symptoms. Physical therapies for MUPS aim to help people improve their physical functioning through various types of exercise. This review aimed to examine the evidence for talking therapies and physical therapies for MUPS and somatoform disorders. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
What is the quality of current research on talking therapies and physical therapies for MUPS? 
Are talking therapies an effective treatment for MUPS compared with usual treatment or waiting list? 
Which types of talking therapies are most effective?
Are physical therapies an effective treatment for MUPS?
How acceptable are talking therapies and physical therapies to people with MUPS?
Which studies were included in the review? 
We used search databases to find all studies of talking therapies and physical therapies for people with somatoform disorders published to November 2013. To be included in the review, studies had to compare talking therapies or physical therapies with either usual treatment, waiting list, enhanced or structured care (where a doctor offered structured appointments to the person but no specific therapy for MUPS), or other talking or physical therapies. We included studies if they had adults aged over 18 years with a clear diagnosis of somatoform disorders or main presenting problem of MUPS. 
We included 21 studies in the review with 2658 participants.
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We rated the quality of current research as low to moderate. Fourteen out of the 21 studies focused on cognitive behavioural therapy, which is a specific form of talking therapy based on the idea that thoughts and thinking can influence emotions and behaviours. 
