The role of iron in the management of chemotherapy‐induced anemia in cancer patients receiving erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents 
Review question: Is iron alone or iron as a supplement to erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents (ESAs) superior to ESAs alone in the management of people diagnosed with chemotherapy‐induced anemia (CIA)? 
Background: The current treatment of CIA is ESAs, which increase the production of red blood cells (erythropoiesis), and in some cases ESAs and iron. In some cases, strategies such as no therapy or wait and watch with clinical oversight and red blood cell transfusion may be safe and suitable options. We conducted a systematic review to evaluate the benefits and harms of iron in the management of CIA. 
Search date: The evidence is current to February 2016. 
Study characteristics: We included eight industry‐funded randomized controlled trials (RCTs) comparing ESAs plus iron versus ESAs alone enrolling 2087 participants. We did not find any trial comparing iron alone versus ESAs alone. 
Study funding source: All the included trials were industry funded. 
Key results: Adding iron to ESAs improves the hematopoietic response in people with CIA. Use of iron with ESAs might reduce the risk of blood transfusions and improve hemoglobin. We found no improvement in quality of life with addition of iron. We found no evidence for a difference in time to hematopoietic response and risk of development of blood clot in veins of people with CIA treated with iron and ESAs compared with ESAs alone. There were zero treatment‐related deaths among 997 participants in the four trials that reported this outcome. Other harms included constipation, vomiting, and diarrhea, and were similar with ESAs and iron compared with ESAs alone. None of the trials reported data on survival. 
Quality of evidence: The quality of evidence for hematopoietic response was high. The quality of evidence for red blood cell transfusion was moderate, as the pooled estimate had large variation. The quality of evidence for change in hemoglobin and time to hematopoietic response was low, as the pooled estimates had large variation and results were not similar across studies. The quality of evidence for quality of life was high. The quality of evidence for risk of blood clots in veins was moderate due to variation in pooled estimate. Since the included RCTs had shorter follow‐up duration (up to 20 weeks), the long‐term effects of iron supplementation are unknown. 
