Can health care providers who are not doctors perform abortions as well as doctors?
Unsafe abortion causes death and disability and remains a major public health concern in developing countries. Most of these deaths and disabilities could be prevented if safe and legal abortion were provided by trained people. This review looked at whether using mid‐level providers (health care providers who are not doctors) to perform abortions is safe. It also looked at whether the abortions provided by mid‐level providers worked as well as those provided by doctors. 
We carried out searches for studies that compared medical abortion (using pills) or surgical abortion provided by either mid‐level providers or doctors. We also wrote to researchers to find more studies. The studies could compare how safe the abortions were or how effective they were (whether they actually worked). The evidence we found is up to date as of the 15th of August 2014. 
We found eight studies with a total of 22,018 participants. Five studies compared surgical abortion provided by doctors or mid‐level providers and three studies compared medical abortion provided by doctors or mid‐level providers. Of the five surgical abortion studies only one had a high‐quality study design. Of the three medical abortion studies, two had a high‐quality study design. Three of these studies were carried out in America, two in India, one in was carried out in both South Africa and Vietnam the remaining two were from Sweden and Nepal. 
The results from the analyses of the medical abortion studies showed that there does not seem to be an advantage when these are provided by doctors. The results from most of the analyses of the surgical abortion studies showed that we cannot be sure that there is a difference in how safe and how effective mid‐level providers are compared to doctors. One analysis of three low‐quality studies of surgical abortion showed that there was more chance of the abortion being ineffective if it was provided by mid‐level providers. 
