Colonoscopy‐based prophylactic therapy for postoperative Crohn’s disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disorder that can affect any segment of the gastrointestinal tract. Symptoms include abdominal pain, non‐bloody diarrhoea and weight loss. CD is characterised by periods of clinical relapse when people experience symptoms and periods of clinical remission when the symptoms stop. Despite the available therapies, about half of patients require surgery and resection of the affected segment within 10 years of diagnosis. This surgery is highly effective, however, the majority require a second surgery after 10 years. 
What is colonoscopy? 
Colonoscopy is a procedure whereby a physician inserts a viewing tube (colonoscope) into the rectum for the purpose of inspecting the colon. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
Most patients that experience a clinical relapse of CD have inflammation of the intestinal mucosa weeks or months before starting with symptoms. This asymptomatic inflammation can be detected by colonoscopy and it is usually called endoscopic recurrence. The researchers investigated whether the initiation or intensification of prophylactic‐therapy guided by the detection of endoscopic recurrence may improve the prognosis of postoperative CD. 
What are the issues related to start prophylactic‐therapy in asymptomatic patients? 
The drugs usually used as prophylactic‐therapy in CD are 5‐aminosalicylates, antibiotics, thiopurines, methotrexate and/or anti‐tumour necrosis factor antibody (anti‐TNFα) drugs. The main issues related to these drugs are costs and adverse effects. The most frequent adverse events are alopecia, gastrointestinal intolerance, infections, sensory symptoms, lupus, vasculitis, leukopenia, pancreatitis, skin lesions and less frequently skin and haematological cancer. 
How was this study performed? 
A systematic review of the current literature was performed to assess the efficacy of prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy in reducing the postoperative recurrence of CD. An electronic search of several databases was performed and studies that met our inclusion criteria were selected for further evaluation. 
What did the researchers find? 
The researchers identified three strategies of management of CD after surgery: prophylactic‐therapy guided by clinical symptoms, prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy and full‐treatment immediately after surgery. 
Five studies compared prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy versus prophylactic‐therapy guided by clinical symptoms. In these studies, all patients received the same prophylactic therapy immediately after surgery. In the colonoscopy‐based management group, therapy was intensified in the case of asymptomatic mucosal inflammation, and in the control group, therapy was intensified only in case of clinical symptoms. According to these studies, intensification of therapy guided by colonoscopy may reduce postoperative clinical recurrence and endoscopic recurrence when compared to intensification guided by symptoms. Data from the study with the highest methodological quality showed that 378 patients in the colonoscopy‐guided management group experience clinical recurrence compared to 462 patients in the group where the management was guided by symptoms, assuming 18 months of follow‐up and a population of 1000 patients underwent intestinal resection due to CD in each group. At 18 months the benefit is greater in terms of endoscopic recurrence, which is a good predictor of clinical recurrence. Studies of lower methodological quality but longer follow‐up also supported the benefit in terms of clinical recurrence. Additionally, there may be little or no difference in the risk of adverse events in colonoscopy‐guided management compared to intensification guided by symptoms. We are uncertain whether intensification of prophylactic therapy guided by colonoscopy compared to therapy guided by symptoms impacts surgical recurrence as the certainty of the evidence is very low. 
Three studies compared prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy versus full‐treatment immediately after surgery. In the colonoscopy‐based management group, the therapy was delayed up to the detection of asymptomatic mucosal inflammation, while in the other group the drugs were started immediately after surgery. Unfortunately, these studies had many limitations, hence the certainty of the evidence was judged as very low. Considering this, we are uncertain about the effect of initiation of therapy guided by colonoscopy on postoperative recurrence and adverse effects when compared to therapy immediately after surgery. 
Conclusions 
Prophylactic‐therapy guided by colonoscopy may decrease the risk of clinical and endoscopic recurrence compared to prophylactic‐therapy guided by symptoms with little or no difference the risk of adverse events. We are uncertain whether initiation of therapy guided by colonoscopy compared to initiation immediately after surgery impacts postoperative recurrence and adverse events. 
