Are tiotropium plus combination inhalers better than tiotropium or combination inhalers alone for the treatment of COPD? 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a lung disease that includes the conditions chronic bronchitis and/or emphysema. COPD is characterised by narrowing of the airways and lung tissue destruction. Symptoms include breathlessness and long‐term cough. Symptoms of COPD are treatable, but the condition cannot be reversed or cured. It is usually brought on by airway irritants, such as smoking or inhaled dust. 
Inhalers with bronchodilators (which allow the airways in the lungs to relax and expand) and/or anti‐inflammatory agents are commonly used to ease symptoms and minimise the long‐term decline in health caused by COPD. Examples of these treatments are tiotropium, which is a bronchodilator, and combination inhalers, which contain another type of bronchodilator (long‐acting beta‐agonists) together with anti‐inflammatory agents (steroids). These treatments work in different ways and therefore might be more beneficial if used together. 
Study characteristics 
This review found six studies, involving 1902 participants, comparing the long‐term efficacy and side effects of tiotropium combined with combination inhalers for treatment of patients with COPD. Not all of the people included in these studies had COPD that was severe enough to be recommended for combined therapy according to current guidelines. 
Key results 
Current evidence shows potential benefits of treatment with tiotropium in addition to inhaled corticosteroid and long‐acting beta2‐agonist combination therapy through increased health‐related quality of life and a small improvement i n lung function in patients receiving this combined therapy. However, this evidence does not allow us to draw conclusions about the effects of these treatments on mortality, hospitalisation for all causes and exacerbations. The frequency of serious and non‐serious adverse events was not increased in either of the two groups. 
