What is the best method for maintaining the correct position of teeth after orthodontic treatment? 
Review question 
Which approach is most effective at maintaining teeth in their new position after the end of treatment with orthodontic braces? 
Background 
Once people finish having their teeth straightened with orthodontic braces, the teeth will tend to get crooked again. Orthodontists try to prevent this by using different retention procedures. Retention procedures can include either wearing retainers, which fit over or around teeth, or stick onto the back of teeth, or by using something called 'adjunctive procedures'. Adjunctive procedures either change the shape of the contacts between teeth, or involve a very small procedure to cut the connection between the gum and the neck of the tooth. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases to find all the new evidence up to 26 January 2016. This review updates a previous one published in 2006. We included 15 studies that compared different types of fixed and removable retainers and different durations of wear. There were 1722 participants including adults and children. Nine studies took place in a hospital or university setting, five studies in specialist practice and one in a National Health Service Clinic. 
The studies evaluated four comparisons: removable retainers versus fixed retainers (three studies); different types of fixed retainers (four studies); different types of removable retainers (eight studies); and one study compared a combination of removable and fixed retainers, use of an adjunctive procedure and a positioner. 
We also found four ongoing studies and four studies await classification.
Key results 
Most of the evidence was of low quality. One small but well conducted study that compared full‐time and part‐time wear of thermoplastic retainers did not find evidence of a difference in stability (moderate quality evidence). 
Quality of the evidence 
There is not enough high quality evidence to recommend any one approach to retention over another. Further high‐quality studies are needed. 
