Prophylactic antibiotics for preventing gram‐positive infections associated with long‐term central venous catheters in adults and children receiving treatment for cancer 
The issuePeople undergoing anti‐cancer treatment (chemotherapy) often have a catheter (tube) inserted into a large vein, through which their chemotherapy is given. This is known as a central venous catheter (CVC). As chemotherapy is usually administered over several months to years, long‐term CVCs are used. Despite sterile insertion and care afterwards, these CVCs often become infected by a type of bacteria called gram‐positive bacteria. Giving antibiotics as a preventive (prophylactic antibiotics) before the catheter is inserted, or using the antibiotics as a lock or flush solution, or both, may prevent these infections. A lock/flush solution is instilled in the catheter when it is not in use. This solution often contains heparin, saline, or both, to prevent a clot forming in the catheter.  
The aim of the reviewThe aim of this review was to determine whether giving antibiotics before catheter insertion or as a lock/flush solution can prevent gram‐positive CVC‐related infections. 
What are the main findings?We searched databases to identify randomised controlled trials (RCTs ‐ clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups). We identified 12 relevant studies, which included a total of 1244 adults and children with cancer. 
We included six studies (756 people) that compared giving antibiotics before the insertion of the CVC against not giving antibiotics. We found that giving an antibiotic before CVC insertion did not prevent infections. The studies authors' did not describe side‐effects.  
We included six studies (488 people) that compared an antibiotic solution with a heparin‐only solution to flush/lock a CVC. We found that an antibiotic lock/flush solution reduced the number of CVC‐related infections. People in one study reported an unpleasant taste after flushing, and one study found there were fewer CVC obstructions (e.g. a clot) in people who received the combined antibiotic and anticoagulant solution.  
Certainty of the evidenceWe have moderate confidence in the evidence for giving antibiotics prior to CVC insertion and antibiotic lock/flush solutions since the studies were done in different people, used different types of catheters and antibiotics, and measured their results in different ways.  
What are the conclusions?We did not observe any benefit of giving antibiotics before the insertion of long‐term CVCs to prevent gram‐positive CVC‐related infections. Flushing/locking long‐term CVCs with an antibiotic appeared to reduce gram‐positive CVC‐related infections in people with cancer. It must be noted that the use of an antibiotic flush/lock solution may increase microbial antibiotic resistance, therefore it should be reserved for high‐risk people or if baseline CVC‐related infection rates are high.  
This review updates our previous review. The evidence is up to date to 19 November 2020. 
