Vitrectomy with internal limiting membrane (ILM) peeling versus vitrectomy with no peeling for idiopathic full‐thickness macular hole (FTMH) 
A full‐thickness macular hole (FTMH) affects the centre of the macula, the area responsible for detailed vision and reading. It is believed to occur because of changes in the jelly that fills the inside of the eye, the vitreous. The vitreous is stuck to the macula but, at some point in life, it may detach from around the macula but remain attached to its centre. With the daily eye movements, the vitreous pulls where it remains attached (at the centre of the macula) and if pulling is strong enough it may break the macula causing a macular hole. To date, the treatment for macular hole has involved the removal of the vitreous by doing surgery (‘vitrectomy'). However, not all holes were closed with this surgery and new techniques were investigated. Among these is the 'peeling' (removal) of the internal limiting membrane (ILM) of the retina.  
The purpose of this review was to find out whether peeling the ILM around the macular hole could achieve better results after surgery than leaving it in place.  
This review found four studies in which people who had undergone macular hole surgery with no ILM peeling were compared with those in whom the ILM was removed during the first surgery they had received. As well as reviewing published data from these four studies, we undertook an 'individual patient data (IPD) meta‐analysis'. To undertake IPD meta‐analysis one needs to collect all the raw data for each participant included in each of these RCTs before and after surgery and then combine all data together and analyse them. We were able to obtain data for each individual participant included in three of these four studies, which we then analysed and present in this review.  
Our results showed that at six and 12 months after the initial surgery to treat the macular hole the vision was no different between participants that received ILM peel and those who did not. At three months, however, the vision was better in those participants that received ILM peeling. More macular holes were closed and less re‐operations had to be performed in participants who received ILM peeling with no differences in the number of complications between patients receiving ILM peeling or no peeling in the first surgery. There were no differences in the way participants perceived the benefits of the surgery. ILM peeling was found to be highly likely cost‐effective, i.e. the cost of the treatment was justifiable by the benefits obtained from it. 
We conclude that ILM peeling compared with no peeling increases the chance for a macular hole to close with a single surgery and reduces the chances of people requiring additional surgery without unwanted side effects; as ILM peeling is very likely cost‐effective, it may be considered the best available option for people with idiopathic FTMH. 
