Non‐clinical interventions for reducing unnecessary caesarean section
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether non‐clinical interventions, which aim to reduce unnecessary caesarean sections, such as providing education to healthcare workers and mothers, are safe and effective. This review was first published in 2011. This review update will inform a new WHO guideline, and the scope of the update was informed by WHO’s Guideline Development Group for this guideline. 
Key messages 
We studied a wide range of non‐clinical interventions that aim to reduce unnecessary caesarean sections, mostly in high‐income countries. Based on high‐quality evidence, few interventions have been shown to reduce caesarean section rates without adverse effects on maternal or neonatal outcomes. These interventions are mainly aimed at healthcare professionals (nurses, midwives, physicians) and involve using: clinical guidelines combined with mandatory second opinion for caesarean section indication; clinical guidelines combined with audit and feedback about caesarean section practices; and opinion leaders (obstetrician/gynaecologist) to provide education to healthcare professionals. 
What was studied in this review? 
Caesarean section is an operation used to prevent and reduce complications of childbirth. While it can be a life‐saving procedure for both the mother and baby, caesarean section is not without harm and should only be carried out when necessary. Caesarean sections increase the likelihood of bleeding, maternal infections and infant breathing problems, among other complications. The number of caesarean sections performed has been increasing worldwide. Whilst there may be medical reasons for this increase, other factors, such as clinician convenience and maternal fears, may also be responsible. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included 29 studies in this review. Most of the studies (20 studies) were conducted in high‐income countries; none in low‐income countries. 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low‐quality means that we are very uncertain about the results. High‐quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. 
Overall, we found eight of the 29 interventions included in the review to have a beneficial effect on at least one of our main outcomes with low‐, moderate‐ or high‐quality evidence, and no moderate‐ or high‐quality evidence of harm: 
Interventions aimed at women or families: providing childbirth training workshops for mothers and couples; relaxation training programmes led by nurses; psychosocial couple‐based prevention programmes; and psychoeducation. The interventions were compared to routine practice. The quality of evidence from the studies was low. 
Interventions aimed at healthcare professionals: using clinical guidelines combined with mandatory second opinion for caesarean section indication; using clinical guidelines combined with audit and feedback about caesarean section practices; and having opinion leaders (obstetrician/gynaecologist) provide education to healthcare professionals. The interventions were compared to routine practice. The quality of evidence was high. 
Interventions aimed at healthcare organisations or facilities: collaborative midwifery‐labourist model of care (in which the obstetrician provides in‐house labour and delivery coverage, 24 hours a day, without competing clinical duties) compared to a private model of care. The quality of evidence was low. 
