Drugs for reducing stomach acid for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for using drugs to reduce stomach acid in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis causes damage to the lungs and the pancreas. The pancreas produces enzymes which are needed for the body to digest and absorb food. If the pancreas is damaged this can affect how people can absorb food. It can also increase acidity in the stomach, which may lead to heartburn and peptic ulcers. There are drugs that can reduce the amount of acid in the stomach. Trials of these drugs have shown that they can improve problems in the stomach and digestive system and in the absorption of fat. This is an updated version of the review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 26 April 2021.
Study characteristics 
The review included at 17 trials with a total of 273 children and adults. Seven of the trials were limited to children and four trials enrolled only adults, while the remainder enrolled people of any age. All the trials were run in single centres and lasted from five days to six months. 
Most trials compared an intervention to placebo (a dummy treatment with no active medication). Six trials compared proton pump inhibitors (drugs which reduce the amount of acid made in the stomach, e.g. omeprazole and esomeprazole) to placebo and seven trials compared a H2 receptor antagonist (a second group of medicines that reduce the amount of acid made in the stomach, e.g. ranitidine and cimetidine) to placebo. One of the trials had three arms and compared a proton pump inhibitor to both a H2 receptor agonist and a placebo. In the remaining five trials, one compared pancrelipase (a combination of three enzymes (lipase, protease, and amylase) normally produced by the pancreas) to a combination of pancrelipase and misoprostol (a drug which protects the lining of the gut from stomach acid); one compared misoprostol to placebo and one trial compared enprostil (similar drug to misoprostol) to ranitidine. Two trials used sodium bicarbonate ‐ one compared to placebo and the second compared to calcium carbonate. 
Key results 
We were not able to combine the results from these trials due to their design. Individual trials reported some improvements in abdominal pain and fat absorption. However, the trials did not report improvements for other outcomes such as lung function, quality of life, or survival. The different drugs studied caused some adverse events; mainly diarrhoea (two people withdrew from one trial because of this) and bloating due to wind. As we could not combine the results from these trials, we were not able to reach firm conclusions about whether people with cystic fibrosis would benefit from taking these drugs. New long‐term trials are needed to examine the benefits and possible adverse effects for people with cystic fibrosis taking drugs to reduce stomach acid. 
