Treatments for sexual problems following stroke
Background 
One of the most common but least talked about effects of stroke is sexual dysfunction, with 50% or more of stroke survivors experiencing a degree of sexual decline post stroke. This is not always well recognised, and it is often poorly managed. Management options are very broad and can include medications, counselling, and physical therapy. 
Review question 
We wanted to find out whether some treatments are better or worse than alternatives.
Search date 
The evidence is current to 27 November 2019.
Study characteristics 
Population: we included studies in which participants were adults who had had a stroke. 
Intervention: interventions included medications or other treatments, such as rehabilitation, used to manage sexual problems following stroke. 
Comparison: we compared interventions such as medications against 'fake' medications, which do not contain active substances that affect sexual function. We compared interventions such as rehabilitation, education, or therapy to usual care or alternative treatment. 
Outcome: we divided outcomes into primary and secondary outcomes. Primary outcomes focused on sexual function or sexual satisfaction in stroke survivors and their partners. Secondary outcomes focused on quality of life, psychological well‐being (anxiety, depression, stress), satisfaction with intervention, sexual knowledge, and marital/relationship satisfaction (including partner satisfaction) in stroke survivors and their partners. We also reported adverse events. 
Time/duration: we included studies of all durations: short (≤ 6 months), medium (between 6 and 18 months), and long (≥ 18 months). 
Key results 
We found three trials designed to reduce sexual dysfunction after stroke. One trial compared a medication called sertraline to methylcobalamin (vitamin B12) to help with premature ejaculation. A second trial compared a structured rehabilitation programme (which had face‐to‐face counselling and written education) to written education alone and found no clear difference in terms of sexual function, mood, stress, or quality of life. A third trial compared pelvic floor training (exercises to strengthen pelvic floor muscles) to standard rehabilitation and found no clear differences in terms of erection and quality of life. We were uncertain of the results because all three trials were small and of low or very low quality. Also, each trial compared different treatments, which meant that results could not be combined. 
Side effects (mostly nausea or diarrhoea) were reported for sertraline (20 of 58 participants). No harmful events were reported with pelvic floor training, and no information was provided on harmful events related to sexual rehabilitation. 
Study funding sources 
The study that compared the medication (sertraline) to vitamin B12 did not describe any funding sources. The study that compared pelvic floor training to standard rehabilitation was funded through grants from the Association of Danish Physiotherapists Research Foundation, the Association of Danish Physiotherapists Practise Foundation, the Foundation of 12.12.1981, Lykkefeldts Grant, the Foundation of Lundbeck (UCSF), and the Department of Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy Glostrup Hospital, University of Copenhagen. The study that compared a structured rehabilitation programme to written education alone was funded by the Victor Hurley Medical Research Grant‐in‐Aid and by the AFRM Ipsen Open Research Fellowship. 
