Hydrogel dressings for treating pressure ulcers
Background 
Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores, decubitus ulcers and pressure injuries, are areas of injury to the skin or the underlying tissue, or both. Pressure ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and affect quality of life. Those at risk of pressure ulcers include those with spinal cord injuries and people who are immobile or who have limited mobility such as some elderly people and people with acute or chronic conditions. In 2004 the total annual cost of treating pressure ulcers in the UK was estimated as being GBP 1.4 to 2.1 billion, which was equivalent to 4% of the total NHS expenditure. Pressure ulcers have been shown to increase length of hospital stay and the associated hospital costs. Figures from the USA suggest that 'pressure ulcer' was noted as a diagnosis for half a million hospital stays in 2006; for adults, the total hospital costs of these stays was USD 11 billion. 
Dressings are one treatment option for pressure ulcers. There are many types of dressings that can be used; these can vary considerably in cost. Hydrogel dressings are one type of available dressing. Hydrogel dressings contain a large amount of water that keeps ulcers moist rather than letting them become dry. Moist wounds are thought to heal more quickly than dry wounds. In this study we investigated whether there is any evidence that pressure ulcers treated with hydrogel dressings heal more quickly than those treated with other types of dressings or skin surface (topical) treatments. 
What we found 
In June 2014 we searched for as many relevant medical studies as we could find that had a robust design (randomised controlled trials) that had compared hydrogel dressings with other treatments for pressure ulcers. We found 11 studies involving a total of 539 participants. From the results of these studies we could not tell whether hydrogel wound dressings heal pressure ulcers more quickly or slowly than other types of dressing or topical treatments. 
