Assessment of changes in memory and everyday function in older people using a structured questionnaire, the IQCODE 
Improving how we assess people who may have dementia is a health and social care priority, recent initiatives to increase dementia diagnosis rates have attracted considerable attention. At present we do not have an agreed approach to dementia testing. There are many tests which can help us identify people with the memory and thinking problems suggestive of dementia, but there is no agreement on which tests are best. It is possible that some tests may be better suited to certain healthcare settings than others. 
Our review was interested in the accuracy of a questionnaire‐based assessment for dementia, called the IQCODE (Informant Questionnaire for Cognitive Decline in the Elderly). We describe how useful the IQCODE is when used in a hospital setting. Under the umbrella term 'hospital' we include specialist memory clinics and old‐age psychiatry units as well as general hospital clinics and wards and the older people's services within them. 
We searched electronic databases of published research studies, looking for all studies of IQCODE in a hospital setting. We searched from the first available papers in scientific databases up to and including January 2013. 
We found 13 relevant studies which had results suitable to be combined in a single analysis. Of these papers, six (1352 participants) described studies conducted in “specialist” services such as memory clinics or wards. Three papers (566 participants) described studies conducted in general older adult services and four studies (827 participants) included both specialist and general services. 
Summarising the available papers, we found that IQCODE was useful for 'ruling out' possible dementia in the general hospital setting. This means if a person has a low score on IQCODE testing they probably do not have dementia. IQCODE was less useful in specialist memory clinics and psychiatry wards. We also found that a short version of the IQCODE gave similar results to the traditional longer version. 
As part of our assessment we looked at whether the design of the available studies was suitable for the study question. We found several instances where the design of the study could be improved. For example, seven of the thirteen studies only included a selection of all the people attending the service who could have been assessed with IQCODE. We also looked at how well researchers reported the conduct and results of their studies. Again, there were many instances where the reporting could be improved. A common issue was not describing the severity of memory and thinking problems in those thought to have dementia, only reported in three of the included studies. 
In summary, IQCODE may be a useful tool for assessing adults for possible dementia. There are still a number of unanswered questions around how useful IQCODE may be in hospital settings. For example, before we start using IQCODE routinely we need to describe if it is practical and acceptable to hospital staff, to patients and to their carers. 
