Anabolic steroids for improving recovery after hip fracture in older people
Why anabolic steroids might help after a hip fracture 
Hip fracture occurs mainly in older people, many of whom are frail. After surgery for their hip fracture, most patients suffer a loss of muscle mass and strength. Despite rehabilitation, most patients experience a long‐term decline in mobility and function. Anabolic steroids, the synthetic derivatives of the male hormone testosterone, have been used in combination with exercise to improve muscle mass and strength in athletes. This review considers the evidence for the use of anabolic steroids aimed at improving outcomes after hip fracture in older people. 
Description of the studies included in the review 
We searched the medical literature until September 2013 and found three relevant studies that included a total of 154 women over the age of 65 years who had had hip surgery. Two studies were conducted in Sweden and one in Canada. The studies tested two comparisons. One study had three groups and contributed data to both comparisons. 
Quality of the evidence  There were only three studies available and all three were small and at high risk of bias. We therefore judged the quality of the evidence to be very low, which means that we are uncertain how reliable the evidence is. 
Summary of the evidence 
Two very different studies compared anabolic steroid versus control (no anabolic steroid or placebo). One study conducted in the hospital ward compared weekly anabolic steroid injections versus placebo injections in 29 "frail elderly females". This study found no evidence that anabolic steroid resulted in better function, as measured by numbers discharged to a higher level of care or dead, or the time to mobilisation. The second study compared steroid injections given every three weeks for six months plus daily protein supplementation versus daily protein supplementation alone in 40 "lean elderly women". This study provided some evidence that anabolic steroids may result in better function, but they may also make no difference or result in worse function. Neither study found a difference in the incidence of individual adverse events in the two groups. 
