Magnesium for muscle cramps
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of magnesium supplements on muscle cramps, and included the widest possible range of studies. This meant including studies on anyone suffering muscle cramps, regardless of why they suffered them. It also meant including studies where magnesium was given in any of the ways available. This includes being swallowed as a pill or liquid, being injected slowly over a number of hours directly into the blood ('intravenous infusion'), and being injected into muscle ('intramuscular injection'). We included studies comparing magnesium to placebo, comparing magnesium to no treatment, and comparing magnesium to other existing cramp treatments. We found a total of 11 studies. To assess benefit, we examined the effect of magnesium on cramp frequency, cramp pain, and cramp duration, and we examined the number of participants whose cramp rate reduced by 25% or more. To assess for potential harm, we examined how often major and minor adverse health events occurred. 
Background 
Muscle cramps are common and occur in a wide range of settings. Older adults and pregnant women commonly complain of leg cramps while they are resting, athletes can cramp when they are pushing the limits of their endurance, and some people develop muscle cramps as a symptom of other medical conditions. One potential treatment that is already being marketed to prevent muscle cramps is magnesium supplementation. Magnesium is a common mineral in our diets and extra oral supplements of this mineral are available either over the Internet or in health food stores and pharmacies (usually in the form of tablets or powders to be dissolved in water). We wanted to combine studies to get the best estimate of magnesium's effect on cramping. We also wanted to examine the effect of magnesium in different categories of cramp sufferers, in case it might work in one setting, and not another. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for all high‐quality published studies evaluating the effectiveness of magnesium to prevent muscle cramps and found five studies in older adults, five studies in pregnant women, and one study in people with liver cirrhosis. The studies in older adults included 271 participants (61.6 to 69.3 years of age) and the studies in pregnant women included 408 participants. The single study in people with liver cirrhosis enrolled only 29 people, not all of whom experienced cramping. There were no studies of people who cramp while exercising. Magnesium was compared to placebo in nine of 11 studies, and compared to calcium, vitamin E, vitamins B₁ and B₆, and no treatment, in two studies of pregnant women. The included studies ranged from 14 to 56 days of treatment. Magnesium was given orally in 10 of 11 studies, and by four‐hour intravenous infusion on five consecutive days in one study. Funding for included studies came from a manufacturer of magnesium tablets in two studies, independent sources in three studies, and was not reported in six studies. 
