Population‐based programmes for the prevention of fall‐related injuries in older people
Injuries caused by falls are common in older people and can cause serious medical problems. Older people who live in institutions, such as assisted care facilities and nursing homes, and people over 80 years old are particularly likely to fall and injure themselves. Serious injuries include bone fracture, a head injury or tears to the skin (lacerations) that often require hospital treatment. Hip fractures almost always require hospitalisation and many community‐dwelling individuals do not recover their ability to walk or carry out daily activities of living, which impacts greatly on their ability to live independently and their quality of life. Population (epidemiological) studies show that hip fractures are the most serious fall‐related injury in older people, with 15% dying in hospital and a third not surviving beyond one year afterwards. A number of countries have prepared guidelines to prevent falls in the elderly. Effective interventions are available to prevent falls and include increased physical activity and hip protectors. Strategies targeted at fall prevention include regulation, education, environmental change and population or community‐based coordinated programmes. A population‐based intervention programme shares ownership of the injury problem with the whole community, experts and community members. Joint responsibility is taken for determining priorities and appropriate interventions are widely promoted. 
The review authors could not find any randomised controlled trials on prevention of injuries from falls that involved whole communities. Six evaluation studies (prospective, controlled community trials) with well‐matched control communities consistently reported reductions in fall‐related injuries across the programmes used. This provides support for a population‐based approach as a basis of public health practice. The relative reduction in fall‐related injuries ranging from 6% to 75%, in studies conducted in Australia, Denmark, Norway, Taiwan and Sweden over up to eight years. Three of the studies were based on the World Health Organization Safe Communities model of safety and injury prevention.  Limitations were the exact nature of the population‐based intervention used, how it could be generalised to other communities and trial methodologies. 
