Bias due to selective inclusion and reporting of outcomes and analyses in systematic reviews of randomised trials of healthcare interventions 
A systematic review summarises evidence from multiple studies to answer a specific research question (e.g. what are the benefits and harms of a particular intervention for a particular health condition?). Often, there are many outcomes that systematic review authors could report to address their research question (e.g. pain, disability and quality of life for patients with musculoskeletal conditions) and many different results available for a particular outcome (e.g. a study might measure pain using three different scales at four time points). If the decision about which outcomes to investigate in a systematic review is made based on the results for those outcomes in the eligible studies, this may lead to bias. While, if the decision about which outcomes to report in a systematic review and the ways to report them is based on the results, this may mislead users of the systematic review. 
This methodology review summarises the findings of studies examining the inclusion of results and reporting of outcomes in systematic reviews. We searched for studies indexed in electronic bibliographic databases up to May 2013. We included seven studies and found that outcomes investigated and reported in systematic reviews were often changed between the protocol and published systematic review. We also found that it was unclear whether the decision to make these changes was related to how statistically convincing the treatment effect for that outcome was. More studies are needed to confirm if this relationship exists. Also, one study found that some systematic reviews did not report all of the most important outcomes in the abstract of the review. Another study found that outcomes with a more statistically convincing result were more likely to be completely reported in the abstract than other outcomes. The studies that we included were limited to systematic reviews published before 2009. New studies are needed to examine the inclusion of results and reporting of outcomes in more recent systematic reviews. 
