Can users of waterpipes be helped to quit through smoking cessation interventions?
Background 
Waterpipe smoking is a traditional method of tobacco use, especially in the Eastern Mediterranean Region, but its use is now spreading worldwide. It is smoked socially and often shared between friends or family at home, or in bars and cafes that provide waterpipes to patrons. In the absence of relevant data, many waterpipe tobacco smokers believe this form of tobacco use is less lethal and addictive than other methods of tobacco smoking, because the smoke passes through water on its way to the user. At least in some cultures, women and girls are more likely to use a waterpipe than other forms of tobacco, and it is popular among younger smokers. Current evidence suggests that waterpipe smoking may be as addictive as other forms of tobacco use, that some users have difficulty quitting on their own and that they may experience similar risks to health as cigarette smokers. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for controlled trials in the Cochrane Tobacco Addiction Review Group specialized register, in June 2015. We also searched a number of electronic databases, including MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO and CINAHL, using a variety of names and spellings for waterpipe use ('waterpipe' or 'narghile' or 'arghile' or 'shisha' or 'goza' or 'narkeela' or 'hookah' or 'hubble bubble'). We searched for published and unpublished trials in any language, and especially in areas where waterpipe use is widespread. We identified three studies that tested behavioural methods to help waterpipe smokers to quit. Two were waterpipe‐specific interventions and one was a non‐specific tobacco intervention.One small, pilot study was set in the USA, and delivered a Powerpoint presentation online to 91 college students who were using waterpipe. One study was a secondary analysis of data from 264 waterpipe smokers who were part of a trial that enrolled people suspected of having tuberculosis from 33 healthcare clinics in Pakistan. Clinics were randomly assigned to deliver a behavioural intervention versus control (usual care), or a behavioural intervention plus medication (bupropion) versus control (usual care). The third study, set in Egypt, targeted both cigarette and waterpipe smokers, and was a community‐based programme. 
Key results 
In all three trials, the percentage of participants who stopped smoking waterpipe was higher in the intervention groups than in the control groups, although this was a statistically significant finding in only two of the trials. People who received either behavioural treatment or behavioural treatment plus buproprion were more likely to quit waterpipe smoking at six months follow‐up than those who received usual care. Men smoking waterpipe in the Egyptian study were more likely to have quit at one year follow‐up in the intervention villages than in the control villages. These studies provide support to suggest that cessation interventions may help waterpipe smokers to quit. However, further larger studies are needed to build on this. 
Quality of the evidence 
The trials were all rated at very low quality of evidence, as they were relatively small studies, with at least one high risk of bias. 
