Rapid viral testing for children in the Emergency Department with fever and respiratory symptoms 
Review question  Does rapid viral testing in the Emergency Department influence the treatment of children with fever and breathing symptoms? 
Background  Otherwise healthy children, aged 0 to 18 years, admitted to Emergency Departments (EDs) with fever and respiratory symptoms represent a major burden to the healthcare system, as well as significant anxiety and expense to parents and caregivers. Physicians often order diagnostic tests and may prescribe antibiotics when they are unsure of the cause of the illness and are concerned about the possibility of serious bacterial infection. However, in most cases, fever and respiratory symptoms are caused by viruses. In addition, in children in whom a virus is found to be the cause of their illness, the risk of serious bacterial infection is very low. We conducted this review to assess whether a rapid viral test, done in the ED, changes what physicians do when treating these children. 
Study characteristics  We reviewed studies retrievable as of July 2014. We included four prospective controlled studies of previously healthy children under 18 years of age who attended an ED of an urgent care clinic because of fever and respiratory symptoms. 
Key results  Based on these four studies, involving 759 study participants, we found that in previously healthy children coming to the ED with fever and respiratory symptoms, a rapid viral test showed a trend towards fewer antibiotic prescriptions, but this finding was not statistically significant. However, we found that rapid viral testing reduces the use of chest X‐rays. There are also blood and urine investigations that can be undertaken. The true impact of this intervention on the frequency of blood and urine testing, as well as the length of the ED visit, requires trials with larger numbers of children. None of the included studies reported harm or adverse events related to the intervention tested. 
Quality of the evidence  The quality of the evidence was considered moderate with regard to risk of bias, indirectness, imprecision, publication bias and inconsistency. While none of the studies used blinding, the impact of the use of rapid viral testing is in its ability to provide diagnostic information. Blinding of this interventions to the clinician would be impossible and make the intervention useless. 
