Is Cognitive behavioural therapy as effective as standard care for people with schizophrenia
Background 
People with serious mental illnesses such as schizophrenia can experience severe disturbances in their thought processes, which may lead to delusions (beliefs that are not based on reality) and hallucinations (seeing and hearing things that are not really there). The mainstay (provides most support for the condition) treatment for schizophrenia is antipsychotic medication, but these medications are not always successful on their own and additional treatments such as psychosocial therapies (including cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)) are recommended for people with schizophrenia. CBT aims to help people re‐evaluate their views of their symptoms. This process is thought to help reduce distress and change behaviours. It is often used to help people with illnesses such as anxiety and depression. However, CBT is expensive and the evidence for its effectiveness is not clear, particularly for people with schizophrenia. 
Searches 
The Information Specialist of Cochrane Schizophrenia searched the specialised register for trials that allocated people with schizophrenia to receive either CBT or standard care (the care the participant would normally receive for their condition, in the area the trial was conducted), up to March 2017. These searches found 1730 records. The review authors inspected and screened these records. 
Main results 
After screening search results we were able to include 60 trials with 5992 participants. These studies randomly allocated people with schizophrenia to receive either CBT as an add‐on treatment to their standard care or standard care alone. The quality of evidence for our main outcomes of interest was mainly very low, or at best, low. Results showed that adding CBT to standard care did not appear to affect the long‐term risk of relapse. Only two trials (82 participants) provided useful data for long‐term global state; these data showed CBT could be better for long‐term improvement in global state than standard care alone. Adding CBT to standard care may reduce the risk of adverse events but appears to have no advantage over standard care for improving long‐term mental state. Whether adding CBT to standard care improves patient quality of life or social function also remains unclear. 
