Fetal assessment methods after preterm prelabour rupture of membranes for improving outcomes for mothers and babies 
In a small number of pregnancies, the sac (membranes) surrounding the baby ruptures preterm, before 37 weeks of gestation, and before onset of labour. Preterm prelabour rupture of membranes (PPROM) occurs in around a third of all preterm births but the cause is often unknown. PPROM can result in illness and death for both the mother and baby through complications such as compression of the umbilical cord and bacteria infecting the uterus. The biggest problem for the baby is an increased risk of respiratory distress, brain haemorrhage and infection because of being born early. Several methods are available for assessing the wellbeing of the unborn baby following PPROM, to help healthcare providers detect any problems with the baby and make decisions on whether to deliver the baby earlier that they otherwise would. Most women will go into spontaneous labour within several days of PPROM. 
This review was carried out to evaluate whether these methods lead to improved health outcomes for the mother and her baby. The review included three randomised controlled studies that involved a total of 275 women (data reported for 271) with PPROM at up to 34 weeks' gestation. All three studies were from the USA. They each investigated different methods of fetal assessment, so no meta‐analysis could be conducted. Instead, the review reported the results of each individual study. One study compared weekly endovaginal ultrasound scans where the probe is placed inside the vagina versus no assessment, one compared an amniotic fluid test to measure levels of fetal lung surfactant with no assessment, and one compared a daily 'nonstress test' (recording the fetal heartbeat) with daily modified biophysical profiling (recording the fetal heartbeat as well as estimating the volume of amniotic fluid surrounding the baby). In each study, there were few statistically significant differences between groups in outcomes for the mother, fetus or neonate. The overall quality of the evidence was poor, because participants knew which group they were in. More studies are needed to assess the benefits and harms of fetal assessment methods for improving neonatal and maternal outcomes in women with PPROM before firm conclusions can be drawn. 
