Photodynamic therapy for recurrent respiratory papillomatosis
Background 
Recurrent respiratory papillomatosis is a condition of the mucosal lining of the upper airway, which leads to multiple benign, wart‐like growths (papilloma). Although not cancerous, it can lead to serious problems, including hoarseness and airway obstruction. The main treatment is repeated surgical removal of the papilloma using a laser or cutting instrument. However, multiple surgical procedures carry the risk of complications and can also result in long‐term scarring. Photodynamic therapy works through the application of a light‐sensitising substance, which is then activated by light of a specific wavelength. A chemical reaction creates powerful active molecules that destroy the papilloma locally. It can be used on its own or as an additional treatment together with surgical removal. It has been proposed that photodynamic therapy slows the growth of the papilloma and results in fewer recurrences and therefore fewer surgical procedures. 
Study characteristics 
We found one randomised controlled trial with a total of 23 participants for inclusion in this review. The study took place at two centres in the USA. Six of the 23 patients did not complete the study (dropped out). Participants who completed the study were outpatients, their age range was four to 60 years and 76% were men and 24% women. The study did not measure any of the outcomes important to patients (symptom improvement ‐ respiratory distress/dyspnoea and voice quality, quality of life improvement and recurrence‐free interval). It did measure the reduction in the volume of disease (assessed with an endoscope). 
Key results 
We found insufficient evidence from the included study that photodynamic therapy has a benefit on its own or in combination with surgery in recurrent respiratory papillomatosis. There was no clear evidence that effects observed in the treatment group were different to those in the control group. Adverse effects reported included airway swelling in a child with severe disease a few hours after photodynamic therapy, which required insertion of a breathing tube and a prolonged stay in hospital. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence is very low: there was no blinding of treatment and a high rate of drop‐out. This evidence is up to date to January 2014. 
