Which medicines work best to prevent people from being sick (vomiting) after an operation?
Why are people sick after an operation? 
Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) is a common unwanted effect of general anaesthesia—medicine that makes people unconscious and unresponsive so they don't move or feel pain during an operation. 
Most unwanted effects of general anaesthesia, including feeling or being sick, happen immediately and stop after a few hours, although some people may continue to feel sick for up to a day. If people carry on feeling or being sick, they might have to stay in hospital longer than expected and may experience other unwanted effects or complications. 
Women are more likely to be sick after an operation, as are people taking opioid painkillers, those who have had motion sickness, and those who have been sick after previous operations.  
Medicines to prevent people from being sick 
Medicines called antiemetics are given to prevent people from feeling or being sick. These medicines may be given before or during anaesthesia. 
Antiemetic medicines are grouped into six main classes based on how they act. Combining medicines from different classes sometimes makes them work better. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out which medicines work best to prevent people from being sick after an operation and cause the fewest unwanted effects. Some unwanted effects of antiemetic medicines include headache, constipation, movement disorders such as tremors, sleepiness, irregular heartbeat, and wound infection. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the use of antiemetic medicines in adults having general anaesthesia to prevent people from being sick afterwards.   
We looked for randomized controlled studies, in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date 
We included evidence published up to November 2017; in April 2020, we found another 39 studies, which are not yet included in the analysis. 
What we found 
We found 585 studies in 97,516 people who were given antiemetic medicines before or during general anaesthesia. People included in the studies were more likely to be sick after anaesthesia, as 83% were women and 88% were taking opioid painkillers. Most studies were conducted in Asia, Europe, or North America. 
These studies either measured how many people were sick in the first 24 hours after their operation or how many unwanted effects were reported, or both of these outcomes. Most studies compared medicines (given alone or in combination) with a dummy (placebo) treatment. 
We compared all antiemetic medicines with each other using a mathematical method called network meta‐analysis. 
What were our main results and how reliable are these results? 
Compared with placebo treatment, 10 out of 28 single medicines and 29 out of 36 combinations of medicines prevented people from being sick in the first 24 hours after their operation (282 studies). Combinations of antiemetic medicines generally worked better than single medicines given alone. However, aprepitant, casopitant, and fosaprepitant worked as well alone as most combinations of antiemetics. The single medicine that worked best in the ranking of all medicines was fosaprepitant, followed by casopitant, aprepitant, ramosetron, granisetron, dexamethasone, tropisetron, ondansetron, dolasetron, and droperidol. 
We are confident that aprepitant, ramosetron, granisetron, dexamethasone, and ondansetron prevent people from being sick. We are moderately confident about how well fosaprepitant and droperidol work, but this finding may change when further evidence becomes available. We are uncertain about how well casopitant, tropisetron, and dolasetron work. 
Not all studies looked at serious, life‐threatening unwanted effects. We are uncertain how many of these effects were reported when taking an antiemetic medicine and whether serious, life‐threatening unwanted effects occur at a similar rate or are reduced compared to placebo (28 studies). 
Of the best medicines with most reliable evidence for preventing being sick, granisetron and ondansetron probably made little to no difference in the occurrence of unwanted effects compared to placebo, whereas dexamethasone and droperidol may cause fewer unwanted effects than placebo. We are uncertain about unwanted effects with aprepitant and ramosetron (61 studies). We found no studies looking at unwanted effects for fosaprepitant. 
We are less confident about unwanted effects of other antiemetic medicines because we found little reliable evidence about this. Our results for unwanted effects are likely to change when further evidence is available. 
