Patient‐initiated appointments for people with chronic conditions managed in hospital outpatient settings 
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to establish if patient‐initiated appointments (appointments requested by the patient) for people with chronic and recurrent conditions is a better way of managing care in hospital outpatient settings than standard appointments scheduled by the consultant. Researchers found 17 studies to analyse. 
Key messages 
Overall, this review provides mainly low‐quality evidence that patient‐initiated appointment systems may have little or no impact on patient anxiety, depression, quality of life, adverse events and satisfaction. This system may also have little or no impact on the contact that patients have with services but impact on the costs of the service are unclear. There is some variability in the way patients experience care. 
What is studied in the review? 
Follow‐up appointments scheduled by a hospital consultant is currently used for people with chronic conditions such as (but not limited to) rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and cancer. This system often results in missed appointments, patients unable to access care when they need it, and a backlog of patients waiting to be diagnosed or treated for the first time. Allowing patients to access healthcare advice and appointments when they need it (patient‐initiated appointments) could help alleviate these problems and free‐up appointments. The patient‐initiated system of care may also lead to greater satisfaction for patients with a more convenient service, and may reduce costs for patients and service providers. This review compares patient‐initiated appointment systems that allow the patient to telephone a specialist nurse on a helpline, where they can discuss their query first, and have an appointment with the consultant booked as necessary, to consultant‐led appointment systems. We want to know if these systems are safe for patients to use, if patients and clinicians find them appropriate and satisfactory to use, how they may impact patients physical and mental health, and how they may impact on health service resources and costs. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review identified 17 studies. The studies covered six health conditions cancer (seven studies), rheumatoid arthritis (four), digestive conditions (three), asthma (one), psoriasis (one) and coronary obstructive pulmonary disease (one). Most studies were based in the UK (nine) but Sweden (three), Denmark (three), Finland (one) and the Netherlands (one) were also represented. The mean age of the 3854 patients ranged from 41 to 76 years and most were female. The results suggest patient‐initiated appointment systems may make little or no difference to patient anxiety, depression and quality of life compared to the consultant‐led appointment system (low‐quality evidence due to high risk of bias and variation in results). Other aspects of disease status and experience also appear to show little or no difference between patient‐initiated and consultant‐led appointment systems. Results for service utilisation (contact with health services and staff) suggest there may be little or no difference in service contacts between the patient‐initiated and consultant‐led services (low‐quality evidence due to different levels of contact reported across studies making it difficult to assess). We do not know if service utilisation (costs of services or staff) are reduced in the patient‐initiated compared to the consultant‐led appointment groups as the quality of this evidence is very low (due to the risk of bias and the variability of currencies and levels of costs reported across studies). The results suggest that there may be little or no impact on adverse events such as relapses in some conditions (cancer or inflammatory bowel disease) in the patient‐initiated appointment group in comparison with the consultant‐led appointment group (low‐quality evidence due to the inconsistency and precision across studies in reporting and measuring relapse). The results suggest there may be little or no impact on patient satisfaction (low‐quality evidence as each study used different questions to collect their data at different time points and across different illnesses). Not all studies reported their funding sources, but of those that were reported, most were funded by not‐for‐profit organisations. One study (on asthma) was funded by a pharmaceutical company. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to March 2019.
