Prothrombin complex concentrate for reversal of vitamin K antagonist treatment in bleeding and non‐bleeding patients 
Prothrombin complex concentrate (PCC) is a drug that contains a source of proteins involved in the human blood clotting process. Patients medicated with vitamin K antagonists (blood thinning drug) have low blood levels of these important blood clotting proteins. Therefore these patients will be at increased risk of spontaneous and traumatic bleeding events. Also, when these patients experience a bleeding event, this will lead to progressive loss of these important blood clotting proteins. This process causes a vicious circle, thereby increasing risks of illness and death. 
In the present Cochrane systematic review, we assessed the benefits and harms of prothrombin complex concentrate in vitamin K antagonist‐treated bleeding and non‐bleeding patients who are undertaking acute surgical intervention. We searched the databases until 1 May 2013. We identified four randomized trials (453 participants) involving neurological and cardiac surgical settings, as well as medical reversal of vitamin K‐intoxication among participants. We found six ongoing trials but were unable to retrieve these data. We reran the search in October 2014 and found one new study of potential interest. We added this study to a list of ‘Studies awaiting classification', and we will incorporate this study into the formal review findings at the time of the review update. 
We could not identify any beneficial effects of prothrombin complex concentrate on death. In our predefined outcomes, we identified a decreased volume of fresh frozen plasma transfused for reversal of vitamin K antagonist treatment. We could not identify statistical differences in reduced blood loss, harm or numbers of adverse events in the group treated with PCC. However, all trials were of low quality and small, and all were characterized by a high level of heterogeneity. Therefore, evidence in support of PCC in vitamin K antagonist‐treated bleeding and non‐bleeding patients receiving acute surgical intervention remains weak. 
