Muscle stimulation for weakness in adults with advanced disease
Background 
Individual studies suggest that neuromuscular electrical stimulation, or NMES, may help improve the muscle weakness that people often experience as a consequence of a progressive disease. NMES uses a lightweight stimulator unit and skin electrodes to produce a controlled and comfortable muscle contraction. Being a passive form of exercise, NMES allows patients to exercise their leg muscles at home whilst seated. This may be particularly helpful for people who are unable to take part in more strenuous forms of exercise, for example because of shortness of breath or fatigue. 
Key results 
In this review update we considered 18 clinical studies comparing NMES to either no exercise, placebo NMES, or weight training in groups of people with advanced chronic respiratory disease, chronic heart failure, and/or cancer of the lungs. NMES appeared to be more effective than the control conditions at improving thigh muscle strength. We also observed a positive effect on this outcome when precise measures were used to assess muscle bulk. The evidence for an effect of NMES on ability to exercise was inconclusive. Further research is required to understand how NMES can be used within broader rehabilitation approaches that combine exercise with education and behaviours to reduce the impact of muscle weakness on daily life, for example becoming more physically active. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low‐quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High‐quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. Overall, the quality of the evidence was low for the effect on thigh muscle strength and very low to moderate for the effects on other outcomes. There were problems with the design of some studies; often people taking part or assessors knew if they were receiving or testing NMES. In addition, the results for many outcomes were inconsistent or imprecise. 
Implications for practice and research 
This review suggests that NMES is a potentially effective treatment for muscle weakness in people with progressive diseases such as cancer, advanced chronic respiratory disease, and chronic heart failure, though the quality of the evidence is low. NMES might be considered for use within rehabilitation programmes. It was not possible to compare the effects of NMES to other forms of exercise, for example weight training, because the majority of studies compared NMES to a control group that received no treatment or a sham treatment. Further research is needed to understand the effect of NMES on the ability to exercise and quality of life. 
