Enteral tube feeding for people with severe dementia
What are the advantages and problems of tube feeding people with severe dementia?  
Key messages 
Tube feeding may not increase the length of time people with severe dementia live compared to no tube feeding. The risk of developing a pressure sore is probably higher with a feeding tube than with no tube. No studies looked at quality of life.We need more and better studies to investigate tube feeding people with severe dementia. Future studies should focus on a broader range of outcomes including, pain, quality of life and the impact on carers 
What is tube feeding? 
Somebody who can’t eat or drink through their mouth may be given liquid food through a tube into their stomach. This is called enteral tube feeding. The tube passes through their nose into their stomach (a nasogastric tube), or is inserted into the stomach through a small cut in their belly (percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy or PEG).  
Why is this important for people with dementia? 
People with dementia often have difficulties eating and drinking. During the early stages of dementia, they may forget to eat, chew food without swallowing, or be confused at mealtimes. Some people experience changes in the taste and smell of food. In the later stages of dementia, people often have difficulties swallowing.  It can be difficult to ensure they receive appropriate food and fluids.  
People with severe dementia need full‐time care, and it is often their families who care for them. It is difficult to decide whether or not to tube‐feed someone with dementia because the feeding tube can be uncomfortable or even painful, and may cause other unwanted effects such as pneumonia, worsen bowel or bladder control, as well as bleeding, swelling and infection. People with severe dementia may be confused or distressed by the tube and may try to remove it.  
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know whether tube feeding helps people with severe dementia who have problems with eating and swallowing.  
We were interested in the effect of tube feeding on:
how long people lived; 
their quality of life (well‐being); and 
the development or healing of pressure sores (also known as bed sores).
What did we do? We searched for studies that investigated whether: 
PEG compared to no tube; a nasogastric tube compared to no tube; orPEG, nasogastric and other types of tube feeding compared to no tube 
was effective and whether tube feeding caused any unwanted effects in adults of any age with severe dementia and poor intake of food and drink.  
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find?  
We included 14 studies that included 49,714 participants. Of these, 6203 were tube‐fed and 43,511 were not. Participants with no feeding tube were given standard care or standard care with extra treatments to encourage eating and drinking. 
