Medication as a treatment for long‐term medically unexplained physical symptoms (somatoform disorders): a review of the evidence 
Who may be interested in this review? 
‐ People with long‐term unexplained physical symptoms (somatoform disorders) and their family and friends. 
‐ Professionals working with people with somatoform disorders.
‐ Professionals working in chronic pain services.
‐ General practitioners.
Why is this review important? 
Around 6 in 100 people are affected by long‐term physical symptoms that have no clear medical cause (somatoform disorders). Symptoms can include pain, digestive problems, sexual or menstrual problems, breathing problems, and symptoms that mimic brain or nerve damage such as memory loss or sensory problems. Somatoform disorders often cause considerable distress and mean that people spend a lot of time consulting doctors and health professionals to try to find the cause of their symptoms and the correct treatment. 
Guidelines for the treatment of somatoform disorders recommend that people receive talking therapies alongside medication. In current practice many people are treated 'off label' with medications that are intended for the treatment of anxiety, depression, and other mental health problems. However, it is unclear why medications such as antidepressants help to reduce the severity of medically unexplained physical symptoms. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
‐ What is the quality of current research on medication as a treatment for somatoform disorders? 
‐ Is medication an effective treatment for physical symptoms in somatoform disorders compared with placebo (dummy pill)? 
‐ Which types of medication are most effective?
‐ Are natural products such as St. John's wort an effective treatment for somatoform disorders compared with placebo? 
‐ How well do people with somatoform disorders tolerate medication or natural products?
Which studies did we include in the review? 
We searched databases to find all studies of medication for somatoform disorders published until January 2014. To be included in the review, studies had to compare medication with either placebo, usual treatment, another medication, or a combination of medication and include adults with a clear diagnosis of somatoform disorders. We included 26 studies in the review with 2159 participants aged between 18 and 77 years. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
Although we identified 26 studies, each comparison only contained a few studies and a relatively small number of participants and so the findings must be interpreted with caution. We rated the quality of current research as low or very low and the risks of bias were high in many of the studies. 
There was not sufficient evidence in order to make a statement about the efficacy of tricyclic antidepressants for the treatment of somatoform disorders. 
New‐generation antidepressants were moderately effective treatments for physical symptoms, anxiety, and depression in somatoform disorders. 
There was no difference found between the effectiveness of tricyclic antidepressants and new‐generation antidepressants for the treatment of physical symptoms. There was some evidence that a combination of antidepressants and antipsychotics was more effective than antidepressants alone. 
Natural products, such as St. John's wort, significantly reduced the severity of physical symptoms compared with placebo. 
High numbers of people dropped out of treatment due to side effects or lack of effects with antidepressant medication, and low numbers dropped out with natural products. 
What should happen next? 
The review authors suggest that future high‐quality research should be carried out to look at the effectiveness of medications other than antidepressants, to compare antidepressants more thoroughly and to follow up participants over longer periods (the longest follow‐up was just 12 weeks). The review authors also suggest that future research should measure changes in people's quality of life and daily functioning as well as physical symptoms and depression/anxiety symptoms. 
