Mosquito repellents for malaria prevention
What was the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if mosquito repellents — topical repellents (applied to the skin); insecticide‐treated clothing; or spatial repellents such as mosquito coils — can prevent malaria. We collected and analysed the results of all relevant studies to answer this question and found data from ten trials: six on topical repellents, two on insecticide‐treated clothing, and two on spatial repellents. 
Key messages 
We do not know if the use of repellent lotions or burning of mosquito coils can provide protection from malaria to communities living in endemic regions. In situations where long‐lasting insecticide‐treated bed nets (LLINs) cannot be rolled out, such as after a natural disaster or amongst displaced populations, the use of insecticide‐treated clothing may reduce the risk of malaria infection by 50%. Most studies included in our analysis were poorly designed and had high risk of bias. In order to draw well‐informed conclusions, further high‐quality studies must be conducted to improve the certainty of the evidence. However, it is questionable if topical repellents can be used for malaria prevention in the general population as daily compliance and poor standardization (amount of repellent used, surface area applied, time of application, and period between repeated applications) are major limitations of this intervention. 
What was studied in this review 
Mosquito repellents provide protection from mosquito bites. There are three different types of repellents: topical repellents, which can be applied on the skin; insecticide‐treated clothing, through impregnation of clothing with repellent compounds; and spatial repellents, such as mosquito coils. Malaria has decreased in many countries because people have been given highly effective LLINs. However people are still being bitten before they go to bed. There is a need to find a way to offer protection from malaria during these hours. Mosquito repellents may address this gap. 
