A review of activities to help healthcare professionals share decisions about care with their patients 
What is the aim of this review?  
Healthcare professionals often do not involve their patients in decision making about their care. With shared decision making, healthcare professionals inform patients about their choices and invite them to choose the option that reflects what is important to them, including the option not to proceed with treatment. Shared decision making is said to be desirable because patient involvement is accepted as a right and patients in general want more information about their health condition and prefer to take an active role in decisions about their health. The aim of this review was to find out if activities to increase shared decision making by healthcare professionals are effective or not. Examples of these activities are training programs, giving out leaflets, or email reminders. Cochrane researchers collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question, and found 87 studies. 
Key messages  
A great variety of activities exist to increase shared decision making by healthcare professionals, but we cannot be confident about which of these activities work best because the certainty (or the confidence) of the evidence has been assessed as very low. 
What was studied in the review?  
Our review examined the 87 studies that tested what kind of activities work best to help healthcare professionals involve their patients more in decision making about their care. We also examined the effect of these activities on decision regret, physical or mental health‐related quality of life, length of the consultation, and cost. 
The studies were so different that these activities were difficult to compare.
First, we divided the studies into ones that used outside observers to measure shared decision making and ones that used patients to measure shared decision making. 
We then divided studies into ones that looked at activities a) for healthcare professionals only (e.g. training), b) for patients only (e.g. giving them a decision aid, which is a pamphlet explaining options and inviting them to think about their values and preferences), and c) for both healthcare professionals and patients (e.g. training plus a decision aid). 
Finally, we subdivided each of these three categories into studies that compared the activity with usual care and studies that compared the activity with another activity. 
We also looked at how certain the evidence was for our primary outcome (the extent to which healthcare professionals involve their patients more in decision making about their care) and secondary outcomes (decision regret, physical or mental health‐related quality of life, length of the consultation, and cost) of interest. 
What are the main results of the review?  
Forty‐four studies looked at activities for patients only, while 28 studies looked at activities for both healthcare professionals and patients, and 15 studies looked at activities for healthcare professionals only. 
While studies in all three categories had tested many different activities to increase shared decision making by healthcare professionals, overall we cannot be confident in the effectiveness of these activities because the certainty of the evidence was weak. This is because there were many possible sources of error (e.g. not making sure the tested activities were not also provided to the comparison groups), and often poor reporting of results (i.e. not providing enough information to judge the quality of the evidence). 
Although it was hard to come to any firm conclusions, we can say that compared to no activity at all, activities for healthcare professionals may slightly improve mental health‐related quality of life, but make little or no difference to physical health‐related quality of life (two studies). We can also say that activities targeting both healthcare professionals and patients may make little or no difference to decision regret (one study). 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies published up to June 2017.
