The role of chemotherapy additional to high‐dose methotrexate for treatment of patients with primary central nervous system lymphoma 
Primary central nervous system lymphoma (PCNSL) is a malignant disease of the lymphatic system that accounts for about 2% to 5% of all primary intracranial tumours in immunocompetent patients. It is a form of extranodal non‐Hodgkin lymphoma (NHL) and appears at a median age of 62 years. PCNSL is a rare disease with an incidence of 2.7 cases per million population per year, but since the 1990s the occurrence of it has increased in immunocompetent as well as immunocompromised (mostly human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)‐infection related) populations. Symptoms of PCNSL can present manifold though the usual signs are neurological deficits, neuropsychiatric symptoms and raised intracranial pressure. Despite improved treatment strategies, overall survival is still poor and a standard of care for PCNSL patients has not been defined yet. However, high‐dose methotrexate (HD‐MTX) with additional chemotherapy is considered to increase overall survival although the value of additional chemotherapy remains unclear, as there is evidence of a higher risk of adverse events. In this systematic review we summarised and analysed the evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on efficacy and safety of methotrexate combined with additional chemotherapy in the treatment of adult, immunocompetent PCNSL patients regarding overall survival, progression‐free survival, response rate, adverse events, treatment‐related mortality and quality of life. We searched several important medical databases such as CENTRAL and MEDLINE and found one RCT with 79 patients that fulfilled our inclusion criteria. As a result, this review shows that patients treated with methotrexate plus cytarabine compared to high‐dose methotrexate alone have a statistically significant improvement in progression‐free survival and response rate. No statistically significant difference is shown for overall survival. Adverse events, especially infections, hepatotoxicity and haematological toxicities are more common in patients undergoing therapy with methotrexate plus cytarabine, although there are no differences in terms of treatment‐related mortality. Owing to the small number of included trials and patients, the findings in this review remain uncertain and more RCTs with enlarged numbers of patients and longer follow‐up periods are needed. However, the one analysed study demonstrated that RCTs are feasible on patients with this rare disease and should concentrate on overall survival. 
