The effects of fortification of common foods with zinc on health outcomes
Background 
It is believed that zinc deficiency is widespread globally, particularly in children and women living in low‐ and middle‐income countries. Cereal‐based foods are rich in dietary fibre and phytates, which reduce absorption of zinc from the intestine. As people in low‐income households eat a lot of cereal‐based foods, they are more likely to develop zinc deficiency. Fortification of common staple foods with zinc alone or in combination with other vitamins and minerals has been proposed as an intervention to increase intake of zinc in populations who consume these foods. 
Review question 
We evaluated the effects of fortification of staple foods with zinc on blood zinc levels and health‐related outcomes in the general population above two years of age. 
Study characteristics 
We included eight trials (709 participants); seven were from middle‐income countries of Asia, Africa, Europe, and Latin America where zinc deficiency is likely to be a public health problem. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
The effect of fortification of foods with zinc on incidence of zinc deficiency is uncertain. Fortification of foods with zinc may slightly improve the blood zinc levels of populations if zinc is the only micronutrient used for fortification. Zinc added to food in combination with other micronutrients may make little or no difference to blood zinc levels. The fortification of foods with zinc may make little or no difference on incidence of underweight or stunting. The effects of fortification of foods with zinc on other outcomes, including wasting and weight/height, are unknown. Fortification of foods with zinc does not seem to have any adverse effect on indicators of iron or copper status. Most studies included in this review involved a small number of participants and were judged to be at low or unclear risk of bias. There were also some inconsistencies in the results across different studies. 
