Antidepressants for the treatment of children and adolescents with functional abdominal pain disorders 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether antidepressants can improve symptoms in children and adolescents with functional abdominal pain disorders (FAPDs). We collected and analysed data from three studies with a total of 223 children and adolescents to answer this question. 
Key messages 
The question of whether antidepressants can improve symptoms in children and adolescents with FAPDs remains unanswered. There were no serious adverse events when compared with placebo (dummy treatment). The number of studies was low, and the number of people in them was also low, meaning that more studies are needed to answer the question. 
What was studied in the review? 
FAPDs are common in childhood and adolescence. In most cases, no medical reason for the pain can be found. There are various drug treatment approaches for the different types of FAPDs. Antidepressants have been shown to be effective in some studies of adults with FAPDs. Consequently, children and adolescents with similar complaints are sometimes treated with antidepressants. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing antidepressants with placebo (dummy treatment). 
We found three studies eligible for inclusion: two using amitriptyline (AMI) and one using citalopram, involving a total of 223 young people. 
1. It is uncertain whether there is a difference in the number of people who had successful treatment when on antidepressants compared with placebo. 
2. It is uncertain whether there is a difference in the number of people who withdraw from treatment due to adverse events when on antidepressants compared with placebo. 
Conclusion 
We are uncertain whether antidepressants can improve symptoms in children and adolescents with FAPDs. This is because the studies had very few participants and were not conducted using reliable methods. With the evidence presented in these studies, we are unable to draw strong conclusions about the effectiveness of antidepressants for this problem; better‐designed studies with more participants are needed. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
This review is up‐to‐date as of February 2020.
