Deferasirox for managing transfusional iron overload in people with sickle cell disease
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of deferasirox on secondary iron load in people with sickle cell disease. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is a genetic disorder. An increasing number of people with this disorder show secondary iron overload (an accumulation of excess iron in the body) due to repeated red blood cell transfusions. Since the human body is not able to actively get rid of excessive iron, drug treatment (known as iron chelators) is needed. Several years ago, a new oral iron chelator, deferasirox, was introduced. However, it is not known whether deferasirox offers advantages compared to other iron chelators (deferoxamine or deferiprone) with regard to effectiveness and safety. 
Study characteristics 
Two randomised studies, with moderate overall quality of evidence, comparing deferasirox to deferoxamine were identified. The evidence is current to 02 August 2013. The studies with 203 and 212 participants lasted for 12 months and 24 weeks, respectively. 
Key results 
Only little data on patient‐important outcomes such as mortality (limited by a short study follow up) and end‐organ damage (incidence of diabetes mellitus) were available. Iron removal, as measured by the surrogate marker serum ferritin was significantly greater with deferoxamine. In one study, both drugs were reported to work equally well in reducing liver iron concentration. 
The safety of deferasirox was acceptable; the main side effects when compared to deferoxamine were increased frequency of nausea, diarrhoea and rash as well as a mean increase of creatinine, while adverse events of any kind were observed more often in people treated with deferoxamine. Patient satisfaction and compliance with therapy was significantly greater with deferasirox. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of evidence rated according to the GRADE criteria was moderate due to issues with study design. For four outcomes, namely liver iron concentration, serum ferritin, creatinine increase and satisfaction with treatment, it was judged as 'moderate' quality; for one outcome (discontinuations) was judged as 'low' quality. 
Summary 
In summary, the evidence from the two included studies suggests that deferasirox is similarly effective as deferoxamine depending on the appropriate ratio of doses of deferoxamine and deferasirox being compared. In the short term, deferasirox appears to have an acceptable safety profile, but there are no comparative data based on randomised controlled trials available looking at long‐term safety. Further data on long‐term efficacy on patient‐relevant outcomes and long‐term adverse effects are needed to decide whether deferasirox should be used as alternative to the first‐line option of deferoxamine. Currently, its use seems to be mainly warranted as a treatment option for people with sickle cell disease who cannot tolerate or comply with deferoxamine. 
