Lifestyle interventions for chronic gout
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of lifestyle modifications in the treatment of people with chronic gout. There was one study included in this review which looked at the benefits and safety of consuming skim milk powder (SMP) enriched with two components of dairy products (glycomacropeptide (GMP) and G600 milk fat extract) compared to standard skim milk or lactose powder in reducing the frequency of gout attacks over a three‐month period. 
The review shows that, in people with chronic gout: 
Compared with standard skim milk or lactose powder, SMP enriched with GMP and G600 may not reduce the frequency of gout attacks, may not improve physical function, but may reduce pain. We do not know if consuming these dairy preparations improves tophus size (tophi are gout crystal deposits commonly found in skin, on the surface of joints or in cartilage) or blood uric acid levels, as these were not reported. 
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications. Possible side effects may include nausea or diarrhoea. 
What is gout and what are lifestyle interventions? 
Gout is a very common form of painful joint inflammation (arthritis) caused by urate crystals forming either within or around joints. The inflammation can lead to pain, redness and swelling of affected joints, making the area difficult to touch or move. Some of the reasons why people get gout include their genetic makeup, being overweight, ingesting certain medications (e.g. diuretics), having impaired kidney function and lifestyle habits such as drinking excessive amounts of alcohol and sugar‐sweetened drinks. 
Although medications are the mainstay of gout treatment, given the recognised association between certain lifestyle risk factors and gout development, lifestyle changes such as losing weight, stopping smoking, exercising more, drinking more coffee and dairy products, and consuming less sugar‐sweetened drinks, alcoholic beverages, meat and seafood are commonly recommended to people with chronic gout. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with gout who consume enriched skim milk powder: 
Gout attacks 
People who consumed enriched skim milk powder had 0.21 fewer gout attacks per month at 3 months (or 2.5 fewer gout attacks per year) . 
‐ People who consumed enriched skim milk powder had 0.49 gout attacks per month (or 6 gout attacks per year). 
‐ People who consumed standard skim milk powder or lactose had 0.70 gout attacks per month (or 8 gout attacks per year). 
Withdrawals due to adverse events 
4 more people out of 100 who consumed enriched skim milk powder discontinued the supplement at 3 months (4% more withdrawals absolute change, from 10% fewer to 18% more). 
‐ 18 out of 100 stopped consuming enriched skim milk powder.
‐ 14 out of 100 stopped consuming standard skim milk powder or lactose.
Pain (lower score means less pain) 
People who consumed enriched skim milk powder rated their pain 1 point lower on a 0 to 10 point pain scale (10% absolute improvement; 20% to 1% improvement) at 3 months. 
‐ People who consumed enriched skim milk powder rated their pain to be 0.67 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
‐ People who consumed standard skim milk powder or lactose rated their pain to be 1.7 points on a scale of 0 to 10. 
Physical function (lower score means better function) 
People who consumed enriched skim milk powder rated their function 0.03 better (0.14 better to 0.08 worse) on a 0 to 3 point scale (1% absolute improvement; 5% improvement to 3% worse) at 3 months. 
