Orthodontic treatment with appliances which move the upper molar teeth backwards 
Review question 
The main question addressed by this review is how effective are orthodontic appliances in moving the upper teeth backwards in children and adolescents. 
Background 
Orthodontic treatment is a type of dental care that corrects crooked or sticking out teeth by moving the teeth into different positions. When orthodontic treatment is provided with braces it is sometimes necessary to move the upper molar teeth backwards (distalise). This is achieved by special types of braces (appliances) that are placed either before or at the same time as the normal braces. Appliances which move the upper molar teeth backwards can be placed inside the mouth (intraoral appliance) or attached to the back of the head (extraoral appliance). The most commonly used extraoral appliance is headgear. The biggest disadvantage of headgear is that children and adolescents must wear it for prolonged hours during the day. In addition, serious eye injuries have been reported while wearing headgear. As an alternative, several intraoral appliances have been developed. Unfortunately, their effects have not been completely evaluated. 
Study characteristics 
This review of existing studies was carried out by the Cochrane Oral Health Group, and the evidence is current as of December 2012. In this review there are 10 studies published between 2005 and 2011 in which a total of 354 children were randomised to receive treatment with a distalising orthodontic appliance and compared to either no treatment, headgear or another distalising appliance. The age range of children in nine of the studies was from 11 to 15 years, although the children recruited to one study were younger, from nine to 10 years old. Both girls and boys participated in the studies. 
Where it was mentioned, the funding was from a university or dental research foundation. The authors did not assess the impact of the funding sources. 
Key results 
When intraoral appliances are compared to headgear they will probably move the upper molar teeth backwards more than headgear. However, the use of intraoral appliances was also associated with movement of the upper front teeth when compared to extraoral appliances in four studies. This is an unwanted effect that was not observed with the use of the headgear appliances. 
Harm, injury from the appliances and other characteristics of the appliances which may be important to patients were not reported in the studies. 
