Amitriptyline for fibromyalgia in adults
Our understanding of fibromyalgia (a condition of persistent, widespread pain and tenderness, sleep problems, and fatigue) is poor. Common pain relieving medicines such as paracetamol and ibuprofen are not usually considered effective in fibromyalgia. Medicines that are sometimes used to treat epilepsy or depression can be very effective in some people with fibromyalgia, as they are in some other forms of chronic pain where there may be nerve damage (neuropathic pain). 
Amitriptyline is an antidepressant, and antidepressants are recommended for treating fibromyalgia. Although amitriptyline is commonly used to treat fibromyalgia, a review in 2012 found no good quality evidence to support its use. Most studies were small, old, and used methods or reported results that we now recognise as making benefits seem better than they are. 
This review is an update of the 2012 review, which considered both fibromyalgia and neuropathic pain conditions. Neuropathic pain is now considered in a separate review. Here we examine how well amitriptyline worked in treating fibromyalgia, using a definition of what worked that involved both a high level of pain relief and the ability to take the tablets over a longer time without side effects being intolerable. 
In March 2015 we performed searches to look for new studies, and found only two additional small studies to include. Neither provided any good quality evidence for benefit or harm. There were still no studies that could provide an answer that was trustworthy or reliable, because most were relatively old, and used methods or reported results that we now recognise as making benefits seem better than they are. This is disappointing, but we can still make useful comments about the drug. 
Amitriptyline probably does provide good levels of pain relief for some people with fibromyalgia, although we cannot be certain of this. Our best guess is that amitriptyline provides good pain relief in about 1 in 4 (25%) more people than does placebo. About 1 in 3 (31%) more people than with placebo report having one or more adverse events, which are usually not serious but may be troublesome and interfere with taking the treatment. We cannot trust either figure based on the information available. 
