Tonsillectomy versus tonsillotomy for obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing in children
Review question 
This review compared the benefits and harms of surgery to remove the complete tonsils (tonsillectomy) against surgery to remove part of the tonsils (tonsillotomy) in children with disturbed sleep caused by breathing problems due to blockage of the upper airways (called obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing). We included any studies in which children had either a tonsillectomy or tonsillotomy, published up to July 2019. 
Background 
Obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing can occur in both children and adults. It ranges in seriousness from simple snoring to obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome (OSAS), where episodes of complete blockage of the upper airways and difficulty breathing can cause oxygen levels in the blood to drop, waking the child from sleep. Enlargement of the tonsils and adenoids is thought to be the most common cause in children. As such, tonsillectomy with or without removal of the adenoid (adenoidectomy) is considered a valuable first treatment option for most children. Over the past decade, driven by the availability of new surgical technologies and devices, tonsillotomy has become more popular. It is thought that children recover more quickly from this operation and may have fewer problems than after tonsillectomy. 
Study characteristics 
We included 22 studies, with a total of 1984 children aged 2 to 16 years with symptoms of obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing. In three studies, a sleep study was also performed as part of the diagnosis. Children underwent tonsillectomy or tonsillotomy, with or without removal of the adenoid, and were followed after the operation for six days to six years. Nineteen of these studies measured some of the data we were looking to collect and analyse. However, we could only combine results from a limited number of studies as each study measured different outcomes and used different measurement instruments to do this. There were also difficulties in accessing the raw data from lots of studies. 
Key results 
Children with obstructive sleep‐disordered breathing who are selected for tonsil surgery and who have a tonsillotomy seem to have a faster recovery from the operation compared to children who have a tonsillectomy, in particular in terms of return to their normal activity (four days quicker). Children who have a tonsillotomy may also have a slightly lower risk of having problems after the operation that need treatment with medication or further surgery than those who have a tonsillectomy (2.6% versus 4.9%). Any potential differences in terms of blood loss during the operation (14 mL) and pain scores at 24 hours after the operation (1.09 of a point on a 10‐point scale) in favour of tonsillotomy were not considered noticeable. 
