Which treatments that affect the whole body work best to treat severe skin reactions (Stevens‐Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis)? 
Key messages 
Treating severe skin reactions with etanercept (a medicine that acts to reduce a specific part of the immune system), rather than steroids (which broadly reduces the immune system), may result in a lower number of deaths from Stevens‐Johnson syndrome and toxic epidermal necrolysis. 
We are uncertain about the effectiveness of other treatments, such as steroids and cyclosporin (medicines that act on the immune system) or immunoglobulins (naturally produced antibodies). We need more studies set across multiple sites that compare the effectiveness and safety of the most important treatments. 
What causes severe skin reactions? 
Certain medications may trigger severe skin reactions known as Stevens‐Johnson syndrome (SJS), a more severe condition known as toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN), or an overlap syndrome (SJS/TEN). Large skin blisters form, which leave painful sores. The affected skin eventually peels off (necrosis). Cases are rare, but can be fatal if they lead to infections or problems affecting other organs. 
Severe skin reactions are medical emergencies, and require treatment in a hospital, often in an intensive care or a burns unit. Treatments include supportive care, such as fluids and nutrition, wound care, and painkilling medications. 
What did we want to find out? 
In addition to supportive care, treatments taken by mouth or injected include medicines that act on the immune system (e.g. etanercept) and intravenous immunoglobulins (antibodies). 
We wanted to find out how well these treatments work to treat severe skin reactions.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies of all currently used treatments taken by mouth or injected to treat SJS, TEN, or SJS/TEN overlap. We were interested in studies that compared one of these treatments against another, or against supportive treatment alone to determine whether one worked better than the other.  
What did we find? 
We found 9 studies in 308 people (adults and a few children), which took place in India, Europe, China, and Taiwan. We found three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (a type of study where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups). The other six studies observed the effectiveness of a treatment compared to another, without randomly assigning participants to a treatment (observational study). Most patients in the studies (where reported) had a moderate severity of disease, with 44% to 51% of their body surface area affected by rash. Studies were set in burn units, intensive care units and inpatient hospital wards.  
Main results 
The evidence comparing no steroids to steroids came from only 2 observational studies in 56 people; we are uncertain about this result due to our lack of confidence in the evidence: on average, out of 1000 people given steroids, 232 people are at risk of dying, compared with 91 out of every 1000 not given steroids. The number of days to full skin healing and length of hospital stay were not reported. 
The evidence comparing immunoglobulins to no immunoglobulins came from 1 observational study in 36 people; we are uncertain about these results due to our lack of confidence in the evidence: on average, for every 1000 people given immunoglobulins, 55 people are at risk of dying, compared with 167 of every 1000 people not given immunoglobulins. The skin of people given immunoglobulins healed almost three days faster, and people spent two days less in hospital. 
Compared with steroids, etanercept may reduce the number of people who die: on average, for every 1000 people given etanercept, 83 people would die from complications of their severe skin reaction (usually infection), compared with 163 out of every 1000 people given steroids (evidence from 1 RCT in 91 participants). Unwanted side effects (such as breathing problems or severe infections) occurred in both etanercept and steroids study groups, but it was not clear if they caused participants to stop treatment. Other studies did not report on unwanted effects leading to discontinuation of treatment. The number of days to full skin healing and length of hospital stay were not reported. 
The evidence comparing cyclosporin with immunoglobulins was from 1 observational study in 22 people; we are uncertain about this result due to our lack of confidence in the evidence: on average, for every 1000 people given cyclosporin, 65 people are at risk of dying, compared with 500 out of every 1000 people given immunoglobulins. The number of days to full skin healing and length of hospital stay were not reported. 
