Early versus delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy for uncomplicated biliary colic
The liver produces bile which has many functions including assisting in the elimination of waste processed by the liver and digestion of fat. The bile is temporarily stored in the gallbladder (an organ situated underneath the liver) before it reaches the small bowel. Concretions in the gallbladder are called gallstones. Gallstones are present in about 5% to 25% of the adult western population. Between 2% and 4% become symptomatic in a year. The symptoms include pain related to the gallbladder (uncomplicated biliary colic), inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis), obstruction to the flow of bile from the liver and gallbladder into the small bowel resulting in jaundice (yellowish discolourisation of the body usually most prominent in the white of the eye, which turns yellow), bile infection (cholangitis), and inflammation of the pancreas, an organ which secretes digestive juices and harbours the insulin secreting cells which maintain blood sugar levels (pancreatitis). Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is currently considered the best treatment option for people with symptomatic gallstones. This is generally performed by keyhole surgery (laparoscopic cholecystectomy). Gallbladder pain is one of the indications for laparoscopic cholecystectomy and can occur suddenly, with symptoms of intense pain in the right upper tummy which may or may not be associated with other symptoms such as heartburn. This is called biliary colic. Because of the limited resources available in a state‐funded health system, the people with biliary colic are added to a waiting list and operated on electively. However, delaying the surgery exposes the people to the risk of complications related to gallstones. The review authors set out to determine whether it is preferable to perform early laparoscopic cholecystectomy (within two weeks of people presenting to doctors with symptoms) or delayed laparoscopic cholecystectomy (more than two weeks after people present to doctors with symptoms). A systematic search of the medical literature was performed in order to identify studies which provided information on the above question. The authors obtained information from randomised trials only since such types of trials provide the best information if conducted well. Two authors independently identified the trials and collected the information. 
