Pessaries (mechanical devices) for managing pelvic organ prolapse in women
Review question 
How effective are pessaries (mechanical devices) for managing pelvic organ prolapse in women? 
Background 
Pelvic organs, such as the uterus, bladder or bowel, may protrude into the vagina because of weakness in the tissues that normally support them. This protrusion is known as pelvic organ prolapse. Women who experience prolapse report a wide variety of symptoms that affect their quality of life. The choice of treatment options for pelvic organ prolapse symptoms is dictated largely by patient choice, as the interventions of lifestyle changes, pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT), pessary and surgery are very different with different complication risks. Vaginal pessaries are one treatment option for prolapse that are commonly used to restore the prolapsed organs to their normal position and hence relieve symptoms. A vaginal pessary can be used to treat all four prolapse stages. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies published up to 28 January 2020.
Study characteristics 
We found four studies involving 478 women with various stages of prolapse. All four studies were carried out in high‐income countries. 
Key results 
None of the studies reported whether or not the women's prolapse symptoms were completely resolved. We are uncertain about the effect of pessaries compared with no treatment on perceived improvement of prolapse symptoms, and cure or improvement of sexual problems. We did not find any evidence relating to the risk of vaginal bleeding or difficulty urinating in the studies comparing pessaries with no treatment. 
We are uncertain if pessaries have any effect on improving women's prolapse symptoms when pessary is compared with PFMT. The evidence is also very uncertain about the effect of pessaries compared with PFMT on prolapse‐specific quality of life and on sexual problems. Pessaries may result in a greater risk of adverse events, including vaginal discharge, increased urinary incontinence and erosion of the vaginal walls, compared with PFMT. 
Pessary plus PFMT probably leads to more women perceiving improvement in their prolapse symptoms and in their prolapse‐specific quality of life compared with PFMT alone. Compared with PFMT alone, pessary plus PFMT may slightly increase the risk of abnormal vaginal bleeding and the risk of having difficulty urinating, for women who did not have this problem before starting prolapse treatment, but the evidence is very uncertain. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We assessed the evidence relating to pessary compared with no treatment as very low certainty because of the low numbers of women participating in the study and because of problems with the way the trial was conducted. We assessed the evidence relating to pessary compared with PFMT, and pessary plus PFMT compared with PFMT alone, as low‐ to moderate‐certainty because of the low numbers of women involved in the studies. 
Authors' conclusions 
Each of these trials contain small numbers of women, reducing the certainty of our conclusions. We are uncertain if pessaries improve pelvic organ prolapse symptoms for women compared with no treatment or when compared to another active treatment like PFMT, but pessaries in addition to PFMT probably improve women's symptoms and prolapse‐specific quality of life. However, there may be an increased risk of adverse events with pessaries compared to no treatment or PFMT. 
The review found two economic evaluation studies that compared pessary treatment to alternative interventions (PFMT, expectant management and surgical procedures). 
A visual summary of some of the results from this review can be found here. 
