Comparing BIS monitoring with clinical assessment for determining the level of sedation of mechanically ventilated adults in intensive care units 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for benefits of bispectral index (BIS) monitoring compared to clinical assessment (CA) methods in adults connected to a breathing machine (ventilator) in the intensive care unit (ICU). 
Background 
BIS monitoring follows brain electrical activity to produce scores. These scores may help hospital staff decide whether a person in ICU who is on a ventilator is receiving enough sedative to make them comfortable and accept the ventilator. Sedatives are drugs taken for their calming and sleep‐inducing effects. Giving of too much, or too little, sedative could lead to harm. In the CA method, observing clinical factors such as consciousness, understanding and response to commands helps to assess the depth of sedation or sleep. The score provided by the BIS monitor is not dependent on a person. Monitoring by CA might vary between caregivers.  Our aim was to find out if BIS monitoring is beneficial compared to CA for critically ill adults on a ventilator. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence identified from our literature search is current to May 2017. Four randomized controlled studies met the inclusion criteria for this review (involving 256 adults). One more study is awaiting classification. These studies were conducted in adult surgical and mixed medical‐surgical ICUs, and compared BIS monitoring with various measures for CA. 
Study funding sources 
For one study, the BIS monitoring devices manufacturer provided equipment. The company had no role in the conduct of the study. Another study was funded as part of a scientific and technological project. No funding information was available for the other two studies. 
Key results 
With BIS monitoring, we found no significant differences in ICU length of stay (one study, 50 adults), duration of ventilation (two studies, 155 adults) and the risk of adverse events (one study, 105 adults) compared with CA. Clinically relevant adverse events, for example, accidental self‐removal of the breathing tube, were not reported. We could not measure combined difference in amount of sedative use because of the different sedation protocols and sedatives used. None of the other outcomes of interest for the review, for example, death, ventilator‐associated pneumonia, quality of life etc. were reported in any of the studies. 
Quality of evidence 
The findings of our review are from a limited number of studies which provided 'low to very low' GRADE quality of evidence. 
Conclusion 
The authors of this review conclude that we found insufficient evidence about the effects of BIS monitoring compared with CA of sedation in critically ill adults who were on a ventilator. 
