Beta‐blockers for prevention and treatment of retinopathy of prematurity
Review question: We reviewed the evidence for the effect of beta‐blockers on retinopathy of prematurity (ROP) in preterm infants. 
Background: Babies who are born early (preterm) are at risk of developing disordered growth of the blood vessels in the back of their eyes, a disease called retinopathy of prematurity. Severe stages of this condition may result in poor vision or even blindness. Early treatment of retinopathy may improve vision in the long term. Currently, laser therapy is the treatment of choice for severe stages of ROP. However, it is an invasive procedure requiring expert skills and anaesthesia, and is not available in all countries in the world. Safe and effective drugs to prevent the disease are thus desirable. Beta‐blockers are believed to be able to stop disordered growth of blood vessels in various parts of the body including the eye. Beta‐blockers are used in children to treat a variety of diseases and are generally well tolerated. Nevertheless, they also bear the risk of adverse effects like lowering heart rate and blood pressure. The main aim of this review was to find out whether beta‐blockers compared to placebo (an inactive drug) or no drug offer important advantages to preterm babies either by preventing severe stages of ROP or by treating the disease (when critical stages of ROP are already present). 
Study characteristics: We examined the research published to 7 August 2017. We found three clinical trials recruiting 366 preterm babies. All three studies reported on preventing severe stages of retinopathy. 
Key results: We found that orally administered beta‐blockers may offer short‐term benefits such as lower risk of progression to a more severe stage of retinopathy and less need for additional treatment. However, there were no data on long‐term vision; and studies did not show an effect of beta‐blockers on the most severe stages of retinopathy. On the other hand, serious adverse effects of beta‐blockers were reported in one of three studies. 
Quality of evidence: The overall quality of evidence for outcomes in this review varied from low to moderate. Thus, our confidence in the results of this review is very limited. We cannot recommend routine use of beta‐blockers for prevention or treatment of ROP in preterm infants. Future high‐quality studies are necessary to determine whether benefits of beta‐blockers outweigh their risks in preventing or treating ROP in preterm infants. 
