Negative pressure wound therapy for treating pressure ulcers
Background 
Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores, decubitus ulcers and pressure injuries, are areas of injury to the skin, the tissue that lies underneath, or both. Pressure ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and affect people's quality of life. People at risk of developing pressure ulcers include those with spinal cord injuries, and those who are immobile or who have limited mobility. 
In 2004 the total annual cost of treating pressure ulcers in the UK was estimated as being GBP 1.4 to 2.1 billion, which was equivalent to 4% of the total National Health Service expenditure. People with pressure ulcers stay longer when admitted to hospital, and this increases hospital costs. Figures from the USA for 2006 suggest that half a million hospital stays had 'pressure ulcer' noted as a diagnosis; the total hospital costs of these stays was USD 11 billion. 
There is a wide variety of treatment options available for pressure ulcers, such as dressings, creams, redistribution of pressure, and negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT). NPWT is a technology that is used widely and is promoted for use on wounds, including pressure ulcers. In NPWT a machine which exerts carefully controlled suction (negative pressure) is attached to a wound dressing that covers the pressure ulcer. This sucks any wound and tissue fluid away from the treated area into a canister. The researchers tried to discover whether NPWT works well as a treatment for pressure ulcers. 
What we found 
We searched the medical literature up to May 2015 for robust medical studies (randomised controlled studies) that compared NPWT with other treatments for pressure ulcers. We identified four studies involving a total of 149 participants. Two studies compared NPWT with dressings, one compared NPWT with a series of topical treatments and one study compared it with what was described only as 'moist wound healing'. The trials were small, and poorly described, of fairly short or unclear duration, and contained little in the way of useful data. 
