Is vitamin D supplementation beneficial or harmful for women during pregnancy?
What is the issue? 
It is not clear if vitamin D supplementation, alone or in combination with calcium or other vitamins and minerals, during pregnancy have benefits or harms to the mother or her offspring. 
Why is this important? 
Vitamin D is essential for human health, particularly bone, muscle contraction, nerve conduction, and general cellular function. Low concentrations of blood vitamin D in pregnant women have been associated with pregnancy complications. It is thought that additional vitamin D through supplementation during pregnancy might be needed to protect against pregnancy complications. 
What was studied in the review? 
This is an update of a review that was first published in 2012 and subsequently updated in 2016. This review evaluated the effect of supplementation with vitamin D alone or in combination with other micronutrients for women during pregnancy in comparison to placebo or no intervention, irrespective of dose, duration or time of commencement of supplementation or type of supplementation (oral or by injection). 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (July 2018) and found 30 trials (involving 7033 women) for inclusion in this update. 
Evidence from 22 trials involving 3725 pregnant women suggest that supplementation with vitamin D alone during pregnancy probably reduces the risk of pre窶親clampsia, gestational diabetes, and the risk of having a baby with low birthweight compared to placebo or no intervention and may make little or no difference in the risk of having a preterm birth. It may reduce the risk of maternal adverse events, such as severe postpartum haemorrhage, although it should be noted that this result was unexpected and based on a single trial. 
Evidence from nine trials involving 1916 pregnant women suggest that supplementation with vitamin D and calcium probably reduces the risk for pre窶親clampsia but may increase the risk of preterm birth. This slight potential harm warrants consideration in women receiving calcium supplementation as part of antenatal care. 
Evidence from one study involving 1300 pregnant women suggest that supplementation with vitamin D plus other nutrients may make little or no difference in the risk of most outcomes evaluated. 
Data on maternal adverse events were lacking in most trials.
What does this mean? 
Supplementing pregnant women with vitamin D alone probably reduces the risk of pre窶親clampsia, gestational diabetes, low birthweight and the risk of severe postpartum haemorrhage. It may make little or no difference in the risk of having a preterm birth < 37 weeks' gestation. Supplementing pregnant women with vitamin D and calcium probably reduces the risk of pre窶親clampsia but may increase the risk of preterm births < 37 weeks (these findings warrant further research). Supplementing pregnant women with vitamin D and other nutrients may make little or no difference in the risk of preterm birth or low birthweight (less than 2500 g) and the effects for gestational diabetes and maternal adverse events are unclear. Additional rigorous high quality and larger randomised trials are required to evaluate the effects of vitamin D supplementation in pregnancy, particularly in relation to the risk of maternal adverse events. 
