Vitamin K antagonists or low‐molecular‐weight heparin for long term treatment of symptomatic blood clots 
Background 
Blood clots (venous thromboembolism) sometimes cause blockages in veins after surgery, during bed rest, or spontaneously. These clots can be fatal when they travel to the lungs. Vitamin K antagonists (VKAs), 99% of which consist of warfarin, are effective in preventing renewed blood clot formation, because they thin the blood. Low‐molecular‐weight heparins (LMWHs) are drugs that thin the blood and are used for people who are at risk of major bleeding, people who cannot take vitamin K antagonists, and pregnant women. 
Purpose of the review 
To assess the benefits and harms of long term treatment (three months) of venous thromboembolism with LMWH compared with long term treatment with VKAs. 
Key results 
This systematic review of 16 trials with a combined total of 3299 participants (current until November 2016) found no clear differences in recurrent blood clots and deaths between LMWH and VKA, and fewer bleeding episodes with LMWH than with VKA. However, comparison of only high‐quality studies for bleeding revealed no clear differences between LMWH and VKA. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence for the outcomes recurrent blood clots and death was moderate. The quality of this evidence was downgraded because of the small number of events reported, leading to imprecision. For the outcome bleeding, the quality of evidence was low because of inconsistency between studies and risk of bias. Continued research into long term treatment of blood clots in the veins with LMWH and VKA is needed. 
Authors' conclusions 
This review found no clear differences in recurrent blood clots and death between LMWH and VKA, and fewer bleeding episodes with LMWH than with VKA. However, when only high‐quality studies were compared for bleeding, no clear differences were observed between LMWH and VKA. LMWH may offer an alternative for some patients, for example, those in geographically inaccessible areas, those unable or reluctant to visit the thrombosis service regularly, and those for whom taking VKA may be harmful. 
