Mesenchymal stromal cells to treat or prevent graft‐versus‐host disease in stem cell transplant recipients 
Review question 
In people who receive a stem cell transplant for a haematological condition, can an additional infusion of mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) prevent the development of graft‐versus‐host disease (GvHD)? In people who have already developed GvHD as a result of their stem cell transplant, can MSCs improve their clinical outcome? 
Background 
Patients with leukaemia or other blood disorders may be treated with blood stem cells from another person, but the immune cells in the graft can attack their tissues in a serious complication referred to as graft‐versus‐host disease (GvHD). Steroids are the standard treatment for GvHD, but if they are unable stop the damage then treatment options are limited. In order to look for potential new treatments, a number of hospitals around the world have investigated the use of MSCs for inhibiting GvHD. MSCs are a type of cell that can develop into connective tissue (e.g. bone or cartilage), but they have also been found to have anti‐inflammatory properties. For clinical trials, MSCs have been isolated from different tissue sources (e.g. bone marrow, fat, or umbilical cords) and then grown in large numbers in the laboratory. The MSC preparations are then injected intravenously into the patient at the time they have their stem cell transplant or afterward, either to prevent GvHD (prophylaxis) or to treat ongoing disease. For patients being treated for GvHD, is treatment with MSCs safe and effective against complications of inflammation associated with GvHD? 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 6 December 2018. We identified 12 studies and 13 ongoing trials. Ten studies compared MSCs with a control group, and two studies compared different doses of MSCs. Five trials included only adults, whereas six trials include both adults and children and one trial was exclusively performed in children. Of the 12 completed trials, one trial was in people with inherited blood disorders (thalassaemia major), and 11 trials were in people with blood cancers. In seven trials, MSCs were given to prevent GvHD, whereas in five trials, MSCs were given to people who had already developed GvHD. MSCs were derived from umbilical cord in two trials, bone marrow in seven trials and adipose tissue in one trial; in two trials the origin of MSCs was unknown. In the comparison of MSCs with no MSCs, cells were administered at a dose of between 105 and 107 cells/kg. Seven trials gave MSCs in a single dose, whereas five trials gave multiple doses of MSCs. Trial participants were followed up for between 10 and 60 months, or in those who had already developed GvHD, up to two years. Three trials were funded and carried out by a commercial manufacturer, using their cultured mesenchymal stromal cells known as Prochymal. All trials included both men and women. 
Key results 
MSCs may have little or no difference in the risk of death or relapse of malignant disease, in either GvHD prevention or treatment trials, as the quality of evidence was low. MSCs were well‐tolerated, no infusion‐related toxicity or ectopic tissue formation was reported. No study reported health‐related quality‐of‐life. In trials where MSCs were administered to prevent GvHD, MSCs may reduce the risk of developing chronic GvHD, but may make little or no difference to the risk of developing acute GvHD. In GvHD treatment trials, we are very uncertain whether MSCs improve complete response of either acute or chronic GvHD as the quality of evidence is very low. We found no differences in outcomes between participants who received a higher dose of MSCs when compared with those who received a lower dose of MSCs. 
