Endovascular versus open surgical repair for complicated chronic Type B aortic dissection
Background 
The aorta is the main artery in the body. It supplies blood to all parts of the body and originates from the heart. Aortic dissection is a disease that involves a tear in the wall of the aorta. There are two types of aortic dissection: Type A, which occurs in a region of the aorta that is close to the heart (ascending aorta and aortic arch), and Type B, which occurs in a region of the aorta farther from the heart (distal to the left subclavian artery). If Type B aortic dissection occurs and no immediate surgery is required, the dissection ages and is referred to as a chronic dissection (older than six weeks). Complications may develop after this time, which may require surgical intervention, depending on the relative severity of the complication and risk of the intervention. The combination of age of dissection and presence of complications requiring intervention is why this is referred to as complicated chronic Type B aortic dissection. 
For many years, the only treatment option for this was open surgical repair. Despite its widespread use, there remain significant issues with this approach, such as kidney failure, loss of movement (paraplegia), further surgeries, and death. 
In recent years, advances in biomedical engineering have allowed for the development of stent grafts, which can be mounted onto catheters to be inserted through minimally invasive techniques. This is referred to as thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR), and it has been considered by some to be a more attractive treatment due to its minimally invasive nature. Stent grafts are different from grafts used in open surgery, and so information is needed to measure if this method is better compared to open surgery. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We carried out a thorough literature search (good to 2 August 2021) to identify all randomised and controlled clinical trials that investigated this review question. We did not find any randomised or controlled clinical trials that met our inclusion criteria. 
Certainty of evidence 
We were unable to assess the certainty of evidence because of the absence of studies included in this review. 
Conclusion 
We are unable to report any evidence to help healthcare professionals or patients make decisions on the best way to manage complicated chronic Type B aortic dissection. High‐quality randomised or controlled clinical trials addressing this question are needed. Due to the nature of this life‐threatening condition, conducting such studies will be challenging. 
