Higher versus lower amino acid intake in parenteral nutrition for newborn infants
Review question 
In newborn infants, does administration of intravenous nutrition with higher amino acid (protein) content during the first few days after birth result in improved growth and disability‐free survival in newborn infants? 
Background 
Sick and preterm newborns are at risk of malnutrition and growth failure from an inability to receive protein at a dose equivalent to that received when they were in the womb. Although administering a higher dose of amino acids in parenteral nutrition via a vein provides potential benefits, possible side effects from excess protein due to immaturity of the infant's liver and kidneys, which are responsible for utilising protein and removing protein waste from the body, remain a matter of concern. 
Study characteristics 
The review included 21 studies that reported clinical outcomes in very preterm or low birth weight infants. Reporting was incomplete for all outcomes. Searches for studies were conducted in June 2017. 
Key results 
Higher amino acid intake did not affect survival in preterm or low birth weight infants. Not enough information is available to determine whether this had an effect on neurodevelopment. Higher amino acid intake was associated with lower rates of growth failure, increased head growth, and fewer premature eye problems (eye problems were not severe). Higher amino acid intake was also associated with increased levels of protein breakdown products (urea) and a lower incidence of high blood glucose levels. 
Conclusions 
Higher amino acid intake did not affect survival but reduced the incidence of growth failure up to the time of hospital discharge. Higher amino acid intake may produce other effects, including an increase in head growth and a reduction in eye problems (retinopathy of prematurity), although these effects are uncertain. Evidence suggests that high amino acid intake may not be tolerated by all infants. Further research is needed to determine the optimal amino acid intake for parenteral nutrition and nutritional balance in preterm infants. 
