Comparison of two surgical techniques for the control of eye pressure in people with glaucoma 
Increased eye pressure is the major risk factor for developing glaucoma (a group of eye diseases that lead to progressive, irreversible damage to the optic nerve (the nerve that transmits visual information from the retina to the brain)). Glaucoma is the second biggest cause of blindness worldwide. Eye pressure can be controlled surgically. Trabeculectomy (penetrating eye surgery) is the removal of a full‐thickness block of the trabecular meshwork (eye filtration tissue) to make a hole that allows aqueous (watery fluid present in the front part of the eyes and partly responsible for eye pressure) to filter out of the eye. It is the standard surgical procedure and has been widely practised for over 40 years. Non‐penetrating filtering surgical procedures, in which aqueous is allowed to filter out without the removal of a full‐thickness block of trabecular tissue, also aim to control eye pressure and have the reputation of being safer than trabeculectomy. The most widely practised non‐penetrating surgical procedures for glaucoma are viscocanalostomy and deep sclerectomy. Each procedure involves a different level of partial‐thickness surgical dissection into the eye filtration tissue. Surgical success is defined as lowering the eye pressure to normal limits (less than 21 mmHg) for at least 12 months after surgery. This review included five trials with 311 eyes (267 participants). These studies included 160 eyes which had trabeculectomy compared to 151 eyes that had non‐penetrating glaucoma surgery, of which 101 eyes had deep sclerectomy and 50 eyes had viscocanalostomy. This review showed that trabeculectomy is better in terms of achieving total success (pressure controlled without eyedrops) than non‐penetrating filtering procedures. Although when we looked at the outcome of partial success (pressure controlled with additional eyedrops) it was more imprecise and our results could not exclude one surgical approach being better than the other. However, the review noted that these studies had some limitations regarding their design and were too small to give definitive information on differences in complications following surgery. None of the studies measured quality of life. 
