Topotecan is an active second line chemotherapeutic drug, used to treat patients with relapsed ovarian carcinoma 
Ovarian cancer is one of the most common malignancies of the female genital tract which accounts for approximately 3% of all cancer in women, and is the leading cause of death from gynecological cancer in developed country. Appropriate initial surgical management by a gynaecologic oncologist is important for survival. Patients with early stage, low‐risk tumours may be cured with surgery alone. Current first‐line management for advanced ovarian cancer consists of cytoreductive surgery followed by chemotherapy. The majority of patients relapse between 18 to 22 months later. Management of recurrent ovarian cancer remains a challenge. Goals for treating relapsed ovarian cancer include improving symptoms, enhancing quality of life (QOL), and prolonging survival. Agents that are potentially well suited for extended treatment intervals may include such properties as absence of cumulative toxicity, non cross resistance, positive benefit on QOL, and convenient schedule. Of the agents available for the treatment of relapsed ovarian carcinoma, topotecan is one of the most widely studied and characterised. This review aims to evaluate the efficacy and safety of topotecan in the management of ovarian cancer. 
Six multicentre, well designed pre‐market studies including 5640 participants were eligible for this review. Pooling analysis did not performed in four trials due to the data not similar enough, but conducted for two trials. Topotecan appears to have a similar level of effectiveness as paclitaxel, topotecan plus thalidomide, and superior than treosulfan, but shorter overall survival than pegylated liposomal doxorubicin. Topotecan delays progression of disease than paclitaxel, treosulfan; topotecan plus thalidomide superior than topotecan alone on PFS, but topotecan alone significantly shorter than topotecan plus thalidomide. Further consolidation treatment with topotecan does not improve PFS for participants with advanced ovarian cancer who respond to initial chemotherapy with carboplatin and paclitaxel. 
