Vilanterol and fluticasone furoate for chronic asthma in adults and children
Review question 
We considered in this review whether the combination of vilanterol (VI) and fluticasone furoate (FF) is better than placebo for people with asthma. We also compared VI and FF with other inhaled steroids and long‐acting beta2‐agonist medications. 
Background 
Asthma is an inflammatory lung condition whereby the pathway through the airways may become very restricted. By the year 2025, it is estimated that 400 million people will have this condition. Asthma can very seriously affect people's quality of life, and the combination of VI and FF may help to reduce difficulties related to the impact on everyday life of breathlessness and other associated symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
We included 14 studies in this review, involving a total of 6641 participants. All studies lasted between two and 78 weeks. All people included in these studies had received a diagnosis of asthma. Trials included both men and women, and one study included children and young people. 
All studies looked at VI and FF versus another medication or placebo. In all studies, the VI/FF combination was taken through a dry powder inhaler. 
Key results 
We found that participants who received a combination of FF and VI therapy had improved lung function compared with those given placebo, but evidence was insufficient to permit any other conclusions because researchers attempted to answer too many different questions. Evidence was lacking on whether the combination of VI and FF therapy once‐daily is better or worse than a twice‐daily alternative. More studies are needed, so that we can gain a better understanding of the evidence overall. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, the evidence presented in this review is taken from well‐designed studies at low risk of bias in terms of decisions on who received which treatment, blinding and how to report outcomes for participants who did not finish the study. However, because we were not able to combine results for many of our outcomes of interest, or because the outcome was rare, we judged the quality of the evidence overall to be low to moderate. 
