Background: Approximately one‐fifth of all subfertile couples seeking fertility treatment show clinically relevant levels of anxiety, depression, or distress. Psychological and educational interventions are frequently offered to subfertile couples, but their effectiveness, both in improving mental health and pregnancy rates, is unclear.  Objective: To assess the effectiveness of psychological and educational interventions for subfertile couples on psychological and fertility treatment outcomes.  Study characteristics: We included 39 studies involving 4925 participants undergoing assisted reproductive technology. Studies varied widely with respect to a number of factors, including nature and duration of interventions, participants, and comparator groups. The evidence is current to April 2015.  Key results: There were substantial methodological weaknesses in the studies, all of which were judged to be at high risk of bias for one or more quality assessment domains. We therefore determined that pooling results would not result in a clinically meaningful estimate of a treatment effect and that we could not present a pooled analysis in the 'Summary of findings' table. There was concern about bias because of differences in care and amount of attention given to participants for psychological outcomes (27 studies) and fertility outcomes (18 studies), the amount of withdrawal (24 studies), and the manner in which outcome measurements were taken (26 studies). We therefore considered the results from each study to be unreliable. Thirty‐three studies reported the outcome mental health. Only two studies reported the outcome live birth, and one study reported ongoing pregnancy; all of these studies had substantial attrition. It was not possible to answer the review question for any of the primary outcomes.  Quality of the evidence: We judged the overall quality of the evidence to be very low, the main reasons being very serious risk of bias and serious inconsistency in study findings. 