Methotrexate for psoriatic arthritis
Background 
Psoriatic arthritis is an inflammatory condition that causes painful, swollen, and stiff joints, along with painful tendons and swollen fingers and toes. It is associated with psoriasis ‐ a disease of the skin or nails. If severe, rheumatologists prescribe methotrexate, a disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drug (DMARD), to improve symptoms and prevent worsening. Other DMARDs might include leflunomide, ciclosporin A, sulfasalazine, and gold (although gold treatment is rarely used). 
Review question 
We aimed to assess the benefits and harms of methotrexate compared with placebo (a fake drug) or similar drugs for adults with psoriatic arthritis. Methotrexate compared with placebo was the primary comparison. Major outcomes were disease response (number of patients with a positive response to treatment), function, health‐related quality of life, disease activity, radiographic progression (bone damage over time as seen on X‐rays), serious adverse events (side effects requiring hospital admission, necessitating intensive therapy, causing permanent disability or death), and withdrawals due to adverse events (side effects that cause people to stop taking the treatment). 
Search date 
We searched for evidence up to 29 January 2018.
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies published between 1964 and 2014. All studies involved people from rheumatology clinics. Studies were conducted in Italy, United Kingdom, United States of America, China, Russia, and Bangladesh. Five studies compared methotrexate against placebo (345 people), and four studies compared methotrexate against another DMARD (leflunomide (61 people), ciclosporin A (35 people), gold (30 people), and sulfasalazine (24 people)). The average age of people included in these studies varied from 26 to 52 years. The average duration of psoriatic arthritis ranged from one to nine years. The dose of methotrexate consisted of 7.5 mg to 25 mg orally, but for most studies, 15 mg was given orally per week. In most western countries, a dose of 15 mg to 20 mg orally per week is normally used in routine practice. 
Key results 
After six months of treatment, comparison with placebo (a fake drug) showed that methotrexate resulted in the following (note that one study measured but did not report quality of life, and no studies measured radiographic progression). 
Proportion who responded to treatment as measured by the Psoriatic Arthritis Response Criteria 
16% more people, or 16 more people out of 100, improved with treatment (4% more to 28% more) 
37 out of 100 people taking methotrexate improved
21 out of 100 people taking placebo improved
Function (lower scores mean better function) 
Function was improved by 10% (ranging from 3% better to 17% better), or by 0.30 points (ranging from 0.09 better to 0.51 better) on a 0 to 3 scale (this is expected to be meaningful to patients) 
