Interventions for preventing bone disease in kidney transplant recipients
What is the issue? People who have a kidney transplant can have more fragile bones because of changes to the ways bones are formed in kidney disease and because anti‐rejection medicines including prednisone can make their bones thinner. Bone fractures can cause difficulty with walking and carrying out the activities of everyday living such as work and family life. There are several treatment options for preventing fracture for people with thinner bones but whether these are helpful for kidney transplant patients is not clear. An earlier version of this Cochrane review in 2004 (and updated in 2007) did not find that any of these treatments prevented fractures. 
What did we do? 
We looked for new studies available since our last review published in 2007 to learn whether there is new information about available treatments for bone disease in people who have had a kidney transplant. 
What did we find? In 2019, there are 65 research studies (involving 3598 people) that looked at whether medicines can prevent bone fractures after kidney transplant. The most common medicine in the studies was a bisphosphonate which slows bone breakdown. Bisphosphonates were given at around the time of kidney transplantation (generally just before or within a few weeks) and continued for about one year on average. Other treatment options in the studies were vitamin D, calcitonin, denosumab, teriparatide, or cinacalcet. Bisphosphonate treatment given after a transplant possibly prevents fractures and bone pain, however the range where the actual effect of treatment might be (the "margin of error") indicates that treatment might make little or no difference. Bisphosphonates possibly lower the chances of a rejection of the transplant kidney but because of problems with the research studies, we can't be very certain that this is true. Bisphosphonates caused low blood calcium levels for some people. There was low or very low confidence in the information about all the other possible treatments for bone fractures after a kidney transplant, as the studies were often too small. There was only one study for medicines in children so we don't know whether these drugs are useful and safe for younger people. 
Conclusions It is still unclear whether bisphosphonate therapy makes any difference to bone fractures or are safe for both adults and children with a kidney transplant. 
