Presurgery exercise‐based conditioning interventions (prehabilitation) in adults with peripheral arterial disease, having leg surgery 
Background 
Lower limb peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a type of cardiovascular disease where the blood vessels that carry the blood to the legs are hardened and narrowed. Its most severe state (critical limb ischaemia (CLI)), results in symptoms of pain when resting, non‐healing wounds and ulceration, gangrene or both. PAD affects more than 200 million people worldwide and approximately 3% to 5% of people aged above 40 have PAD, rising to 18% in people above 70 years of age. Of those who show symptoms of PAD, between 5% and 10% will progress to CLI over a five‐year period. Of those with PAD with no symptoms, 7% will go on to develop symptoms of cramping in the legs when walking and of these patients, 21% will progress to CLI within five years. The treatment options include using a balloon or stent (a device that sits in the artery) to open it up and allow the blood to flow (angioplasty), taking a vein from the opposite leg or arm and attaching it to the artery above and below the blocked artery (bypass), or removal of the limb (amputation), when the life of the patient is at risk due to infection. People with CLI have a high risk of death and worsening health. 
Despite recent advances in surgical technology, anaesthesia, and care during and after surgery, a number of surgical patients have a poor recovery. Presurgery conditioning (prehabilitation) is carried out prior to surgery and includes exercise with a nutritional or psychological intervention or both. Exercise consists of aerobic training, such as walking, running or swimming (ideally three to five times a week) and training to build muscle and strength, using weights or resistance bands (ideally two times a week). The nutritional intervention includes eating or drinking a protein supplement daily, after training or with meals, to improve the effects of any training. Psychological interventions may include breathing exercises, meditation, mindfulness, coping techniques or cognitive behavioural therapy, with an aim to reduce the anxiety of having surgery. 
Presurgery conditioning has become popular in bowel surgery and for elderly patients undergoing an operation. It is used as a means of improving the condition of the patient as a way to reduce complications during and after surgery. People with PAD have difficulty walking and doing their daily living activities and as a result are often very unfit. They therefore have the potential to improve their recovery during and after surgery from presurgery conditioning. However, as presurgery conditioning requires a big commitment from both the hospital and the patient, it is important to know how presurgery conditioning compares to usual practice (preoperative assessment, including blood and urine tests and information about the operation) for reducing the number of deaths or postoperative complications, or both. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We performed a review of the literature (current up to 25 September 2019) to determine whether prehabilitation was associated with reduced complications and death after surgery. We identified no randomised controlled trials on this topic. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We found no studies undertaken to address our objectives; therefore we were not able to assess the certainty of the evidence. 
Conclusion 
We found no evidence to determine if presurgery conditioning is better than usual care in reducing the number of deaths or postoperative complications. Although presurgery conditioning trials are difficult to do with people with lower limb peripheral arterial disease, randomised controlled trials are needed to provide solid evidence on this topic. 
