Antidepressants for treating depression in adults with end‐stage kidney disease treated with dialysis 
Background 
People treated with dialysis frequently experience depression and anxiety. Depression in this situation is linked to poor quality of life and increased complications, such as needing to be admitted to hospital, or stopping dialysis treatment. Patients, their families, and health care workers agree that caring for depression symptoms appropriately and finding effective treatments is really important. Antidepressant drugs may not be removed from the body as quickly for people with kidney disease and so may cause more side effects. Despite depression being very common and treatment having potentially different side‐effects compared with people without kidney disease, a previous version of this review in 2005 found only a single research study. It is unknown whether antidepressant treatment works and is safe for people with kidney failure. 
A summary of whether antidepressant therapy works and is safe in people with kidney failure would be relevant to patients and their families, health care workers, and policy makers to generate patient‐centred treatment policies. 
This review looks at whether we know whether drug treatment works to improve symptoms of depression in adults treated with dialysis without causing common and severe side effects. 
Study characteristics 
We included all studies which have looked at drug treatment against placebo (sugar pill) or other kinds of mental health support. People included in the studies had an equal chance of receiving either treatment. 
Key results 
Unfortunately, even though depression is very common and finding good treatments for depression are highly valued by patients on dialysis, there are only a few small studies to tell us about whether drug treatments are both safe and reduce symptoms. Based on this information, we still don't know whether depression treatment works well for people treated with dialysis and is safe (doesn't cause excess and serious side effects). 
Quality of the evidence 
The question of whether drugs can reduce symptoms of depression and improve quality of life for people on dialysis is still important. We need a big study that involves dialysis patients and assesses a commonly‐used antidepressant drug with a placebo and measures the treatment effects based on what patients and their families value most. 
