Stem cell transplantation of sibling donors compared with specific immunosuppressive therapy for acquired severe aplastic anemia 
Acquired severe aplastic anemia is rare. Stem cells from the bone marrow usually replace naturally dying blood cells in the peripheral blood. Severe aplastic anemia is probably caused by an irregular, attacking immune response against these blood producing stem cells within the body. If supplies are not maintained, functional blood cells are lacking and infections, bleeding, and exhaustion will occur. Patients may experience paleness, weakness, fatigue, and shortness of breath. Disease progression is associated with severe infections, which are a major cause of death. 
The transplantation of stem cells from a human leukocyte antigen (HLA)‐matched sibling donor without prior therapy (first‐line therapy) is a treatment option for newly diagnosed patients with severe aplastic anemia. An HLA‐matched sibling donor, a brother or a sister, serves as a donor of stem cells that carry identical (matched) genetic characteristics to the HLA genes. The harvested cells are transfused intravenously and produce new blood cells. Problems may arise when the cells do not settle down sufficiently to produce blood cells (graft failure) or if the donor immune cells recognize body cells of the recipient as foreign and attack them (graft‐versus‐host disease). Both problems may lead to early death. 
The application of the drugs ciclosporin and/or antithymocyte or antilymphocyte globulin as immunosuppressive therapy without prior therapy (i.e. as first‐line therapy) is an alternative to transplantation and can be used for patients where no HLA‐matched sibling donor is found. Immunosuppressive therapy means the drugs suppress reactions of the immune system. The aim is to reduce abnormal immune reactions. Problems may arise when patients do not respond well or show no response at all. 
We identified three studies meeting our quality criteria for inclusion in the review. All had methodological limitations meaning that we could not draw firm conclusions. With respect to the primary outcomes, they showed ambiguous results for overall mortality when comparing treatment arms: one study favored transplantation and two studies favored treatment with ciclosporin and/or antithymocyte or antilymphocyte globulin. Treatment‐related mortality, that is death caused by complications of the treatment, was considerable for patients in the transplantation arm. Treatment failure, that is no response to treatment, was substantial for patients in the ciclosporin and/or antithymocyte or antilymphocyte globulin arm. Graft failure was reported for 3% to 16% and graft‐versus‐host‐disease for 26% to 51% of the transplanted patients. Because the data are scarce and biased it is not possible to determine which treatment is better ‐ transplantation for HLA‐matched sibling donors or ciclosporin and/or antithymocyte or antilymphocyte globulin for patients that do not have such a sibling. 
Several reasons make it highly probable that there will not be any good evidence comparing these interventions in the future. One reason is that randomized controlled trials are unlikely to be conducted due to ethical constraints and strong patient and clinician preferences. Studies with 'Mendelian randomization' could provide some good evidence in theory, however, in practice they are difficult to conduct properly and have been disappointing. 'Mendelian randomization' means the view that nature itself has already 'randomized' the paternal and maternal part of a gene given that donor and recipient are siblings. Another reason is that the outcome of transplantation has improved considerably. This is true for matched donor transplantation including both related and unrelated donors. It means that ciclosporin and/or antithymocyte or antilymphocyte globulin may not be a first treatment choice if a matched sibling or even a matched unrelated donor is available. 
