Alternating current cranial electrotherapy stimulation in the treatment of depression
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the use of cranial electrical stimulation (CES) in people with acute depression. More specifically, we were interested in examining the evidence from high quality clinical trials in which patients with acute depression were randomly assigned to treatment with either active CES or sham (simulated) CES, We found no high quality studies. 
Background 
We wanted to discover whether cranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES) is an effective treatment for depression. 
Depression is a mood disorder characterized by predominantly depressed mood, appetite change, sleep disturbance, lack of energy, impaired concentration, lack of interest or pleasure, and sometimes suicidal thoughts, resulting in impaired functioning at work and in interpersonal relationships. In order to confirm a diagnosis of depression, these symptoms must be present for at least two weeks. 
Currently, evidence‐based treatment of depression consists of cognitive‐behavioral psychological therapy or antidepressant medications for mild to moderate depression. For severe depression, antidepressant medications are the recommended treatment. 
Cranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES) has been proposed as an alternative treatment for symptoms of depression. CES is a treatment in which a low intensity electrical current is administered to the head through the use of a small, portable electrical device. A sample treatment regimen might consist of daily application of the device for 30 minutes for a month, but treatment instructions vary with the device and condition being treated. In the United States CES devices require a prescription. In most other countries, marketing of CES devices is approved for stress reduction but not specific medical conditions such as depression. 
Search date 
The evidence in this review is current to February 2014.
Study characteristics 
We found no studies meeting our criteria for inclusion.
Key results 
We found no high quality clinical trials comparing CES with sham CES in people with acute depression. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to support the use of CES in treatment of acute depression. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found no high quality studies on the use of CES in treatment of acute depression. The key problem with the currently available research is the failure to use standardized rating scales for diagnosis and monitoring of depression, 
Funding of this review 
None of the authors received funding from any source to work on this review.
Declaration of conflicts of interest 
None of the authors has any conflict of interest.
