Beta‐blockers to prevent death or serious events after heart surgery
This review assessed evidence of whether beta‐blockers given around the time of surgery can reduce death or other serious events for people undergoing heart surgery. 
Background 
People undergoing heart surgery are at greater risk of complications and death. Heart surgery increases the amount of stress in the body, causing the release of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline. This stress can lead to serious events including death, heart attacks, stroke, or an irregular heartbeat. Beta‐blockers are drugs that block the action of adrenaline and noradrenaline on the heart. Beta‐blockers can slow down the heart and reduce blood pressure, and this effect may reduce the risk of serious events. However, they can also lead to a very low heart rate or very low blood pressure, and this effect may increase the risk of death or a stroke. Prevention of complications around the time of surgery is an important safety consideration for people undergoing heart surgery. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 28 June 2019. We included 63 studies with 7768 adults who were undergoing heart surgery, including coronary artery bypass graft and valve replacement surgery. Studies were mostly randomized controlled studies, and six were quasi‐randomized (participants were allocated to groups by methods such as using hospital record numbers or dates of birth). The types of beta‐blockers were: propranolol, metoprolol, sotalol, esmolol, landiolol, acebutolol, timolol, carvedilol, nadolol, and atenolol. These beta‐blockers were compared with either a placebo (disguised to look like a beta‐blocker but containing no medicine) or with standard care. Beta‐blockers were started before surgery, during surgery or at the latest by the end of the first day after surgery. The length of time beta‐blockers were given varied between studies. In most studies, at least some of the people were already taking beta‐blockers, which would be expected for people who had conditions that needed heart surgery. 
Key results 
Beta‐blockers probably make little or no difference to the number of people who die (29 studies, 4099 participants) or have a heart attack (25 studies, 3946 participants) within 30 days of surgery. This was supported by low‐certainty evidence. Few studies reported on people who had a stroke, and we were uncertain whether or not beta‐blockers reduced strokes because the certainty of the evidence was very low (5 studies, 1471 participants). Beta‐blockers may reduce atrial fibrillation, which is an irregular heartbeat starting in the atrial chambers of the heart that increases the risk of stroke if untreated (40 studies, 5650 participants; low‐certainty evidence). Beta‐blockers may also reduce ventricular arrhythmias, which are potentially life‐threatening irregular heartbeat rhythms originating in the main chambers of the heart, and which may need immediate medical treatment (12 studies, 2296 participants). We found that beta‐blockers may make little or no difference to whether people experience a very low heart rate or very low blood pressure. 
We were uncertain whether beta‐blockers made a difference to the number of deaths up to a year after surgery (3 studies, 511 participants), to death because of the heart (4 studies, 320 participants), or to people who had heart failure (3 studies, 311 participants). The certainty of this evidence was very low. People who took beta‐blockers had a shorter hospital stay by about half a day (14 studies, 2450 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
