Fluoride gels for preventing tooth decay in children and adolescents
Review question 
The main question was: How effective and safe is the use of fluoride gel for the prevention of tooth decay (dental caries) in children and adolescents compared to placebo (a treatment without the active ingredient fluoride) or no treatment? 
Background 
Tooth decay is a significant health problem worldwide, affecting not only the vast majority of adults but also 60% to 90% of children. Levels of tooth decay vary between and within countries, but it is generally true that children in lower socioeconomic groups (measured by income, education and employment) have more tooth decay. Over time, untreated tooth decay causes progressive destruction of the tops of teeth (crowns); this is often accompanied by severe pain. Repairing and replacing decayed teeth is extremely costly in terms of time and money and is a major drain on the resources of healthcare systems. 
The prevention of tooth decay in children and adolescents is regarded as a priority for dental services and is considered more cost‐effective than its treatment. The use of fluoride, a mineral that prevents tooth decay, is widespread. As well as occurring naturally, fluoride is added to the water supply in some areas, and it is used in most toothpastes and in other products that are available to varying degrees worldwide. As an extra preventive measure there are other ways of applying fluoride directly to teeth, such as mouthrinses, lozenges, varnishes and gels. 
Fluoride gel is usually applied by a dental professional, or self applied under supervision (depending on the age of the child), from once a year to several times a year. The gel is usually placed in a tray that the child or young person must keep in their mouth and bite into for about four minutes. It is not uncommon for young people to accidentally swallow some of the gel; feelings of sickness, vomiting, headache and stomach pain have been reported when too much is swallowed. Due to this risk of toxicity, fluoride gel treatment is not generally recommended for children less than six years old. 
This review updates the Cochrane review of fluoride gels for preventing tooth decay in children and adolescents that was first published in 2002. We assessed the existing research for the Cochrane Oral Health Group, and the evidence is current up to 5 November 2014. 
Study characteristics 
We included 28 studies in which over 9000 children (aged 2 to 15 years) were randomised to treatment with fluoride gel or to a control group using placebo gel or receiving no treatment. Study duration ranged from 1 to 4 years (with 13 studies lasting around 2 years). Study reports were published between 1967 and 2005. Thirteen studies took place in the USA, seven in Europe, four in Brazil and one each in Canada, Israel, China and Venezuela. 
Key results 
This review update confirmed that fluoride gel can reduce tooth decay in children and adolescents. We combined the results of 25 trials and found that on average there is a 28% reduction in decayed, missing and filled tooth surfaces (21% reduction in trials that used a placebo gel in the control group and 38% reduction in trials where the control group received no treatment) in permanent teeth. From the three trials looking at the effect of fluoride gel on first or baby teeth, the evidence suggests that using fluoride gel results in a 20% reduction in decayed, missing and filled tooth surfaces. We found little information about unwanted or harmful effects or how well children and young people were able to cope with the application of the gel. 
