Which oral or injected medicines work best to treat moderate to severe eczema?
Why this question is important 
Eczema is a persistent condition that causes dry, cracked, and itchy skin. People with mild eczema have small patches of dry skin, and people with moderate eczema have larger, redder, or swollen areas of skin. People with severe eczema have red crusts and broken skin (which may ooze fluid) that develop all over the body. 
Although there is currently no cure for eczema, treatments that aim to relieve symptoms are available. Usually, the first treatment option is to apply creams, ointments, or liquids to the affected skin. If this does not work, it is possible to take oral or injected (systemic) medicines that work throughout the body. 
Many systemic medicines are available for eczema. To help people decide which one is most appropriate for managing their symptoms, we reviewed the evidence on benefits and risks of different systemic medicines for people with moderate or severe eczema. We particularly wanted to find out: 
• whether some medicines were more likely than others to have an important positive effect on symptoms (defined as either at least a 75% improvement on the Eczema Area and Severity Index (EASI), or improvement on the Patient‐Oriented Eczema Measure (POEM)—two scales that are used by clinicians to evaluate changes in eczema symptoms); and 
• whether some medicines are associated with more serious unwanted events, including infection, than others. 
How we identified and assessed the evidence 
First, we searched the medical literature for randomised controlled studies (studies where people are randomly divided into different treatment groups) because these studies provide the most robust evidence about the effects of a treatment. We then compared study results and summarised the evidence from all studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. To do this, we considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, the size of studies, and the consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate, or high certainty. 
