Dietary changes in the treatment of Ménière's disease or syndrome
Review question 
What is the effect of changing diet by restricting salt, caffeine and alcohol, alone or together with each other, on the symptoms of people with Ménière's disease? 
Background 
Approximately 200 per 100,000 people suffer from Ménière's. The condition is called Ménière's disease if no cause can be identified and Ménière's syndrome if there is a known reason for its development. Patients who suffer from it experience vertigo (dizzy episodes), hearing loss, a sensation of pressure in their ears and tinnitus (ringing or buzzing in the ears). 
At present there is no standard treatment for Ménière's disease and options can range from dietary changes, to medicines and in some cases surgery. Ménière's disease is thought to be caused by disturbance of the volume or composition of the fluid in the inner ear (called endolymph). Dietary intake of salt can affect the concentrations of electrolytes (salts and minerals that can conduct electrical impulses in the body) in the blood, which in turn may affect the composition of the endolymph. Salt intake may therefore contribute to attacks and so restriction in the diet could be used to control both the volume and composition of the endolymph. Caffeine and alcohol intake can result in constriction of blood vessels (vasoconstriction) and could result in a reduction in the blood supply to the inner ear, which may make patients' symptoms worse. Many doctors advise dietary changes as a first‐line treatment as it is thought to be a relatively simple and inexpensive option. We wanted to find out whether dietary changes are effective to ensure that patients are receiving the correct advice about treatment options, and to ensure that potentially more appropriate treatment is not delayed by spending time on ineffective interventions, resulting in unpleasant symptoms and disease progression. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for high‐quality studies (randomised controlled trials) of dietary changes (salt, caffeine and alcohol restriction or substitution, or both) compared to no restriction in adult patients with Ménière's disease or syndrome. Our search is up to date to March 2018. 
Key results 
We did not identify any randomised controlled trials that met the inclusion criteria for the review. 
Quality of evidence and conclusions 
There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials about the restriction of salt, caffeine or alcohol intake in patients with Ménière's disease or syndrome. High‐quality research in this field is needed if this question is to be answered, in the form of a study that uses rigorous methods (for example, randomisation and blinding, or careful use of patient registries) and carefully recruits only patients that meet accepted Ménière's disease diagnostic criteria. It will be important to address the question of any possible harms or unwanted effects of dietary changes. 
