Corticosteroids for periorbital and orbital cellulitis
What is the aim of this review?We aimed to find out if steroids are useful in treating serious infections of the area around the eye known as periorbital and orbital cellulitis. These infections can lead to complications like blindness, brain infection, or death. We also wanted to see if steroids worked the same or differently in children and adults. 
Key messagesWe do not know if steroids are useful in treating periorbital and orbital cellulitis. We identified only one small study that looked at this topic, which showed that there may be a benefit to using steroids and antibiotics together. However, larger and higher‐quality studies are needed to better understand this topic. 
What was studied in this review?Periorbital and orbital cellulitis are potentially serious infections of the area around the eye. These infections are usually treated in hospital, as they can cause serious complications. One contributing factor to the development of these complications is that there is limited space in the bony structures that surround the eye. When these spaces get swollen as a result of infection, the pressure inside the space increases, which can damage the eye. Steroids are medications that can reduce swelling, but they can also affect the body’s ability to fight infection. There are no clear guidelines on whether or not to use steroids to treat periorbital and orbital cellulitis, and there is a lot of variation in how these conditions are currently treated among doctors. Our review used standard methods to identify studies that assigned patients to receive either steroids or another treatment using a random method, and then compared the results. 
What are the main results of the review?We found one study that compared using only antibiotics to using both antibiotics and steroids to treat periorbital and orbital cellulitis. The study included 21 people, 7 who only received antibiotics and 14 who received both antibiotics and steroids. The study included people 10 years or older, but did not see if there were any differences between how children and adults respond to steroids. The study found that people receiving steroids and antibiotics together needed antibiotics for less time and had improved symptoms earlier than the group that received antibiotics alone. There was no difference in length of hospital stay between people receiving steroids and antibiotics and those receiving only antibiotics. However, because there is only one small study on this topic, it is hard to tell if all patients with periorbital and orbital cellulitis should be given steroids with antibiotics; more research is needed before any formal recommendations can be made. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?We searched for studies published up to 2 March 2020. 
