Mid‐urethral sling operations for stress urinary incontinence in women
Background information 
Stress urinary incontinence (involuntary leakage of urine on effort or exertion; or on sneezing, coughing or laughing) is the commonest form of incontinence in women and leads to a reduction in their quality of life. Women with stress urinary incontinence can also have problems with sexual intercourse, as leakage of urine can occur. A significant amount of the woman's and her family's income can be spent on managing the symptoms. One in three women over the age of 18 years will be affected by stress urinary incontinence at some point in her lifetime. 
Over the years, surgery to stop this problem has become less invasive. Mid‐urethral sling operations are one of the various types of surgeries available. These operations are suitable for women who are having their first operation and those who had previous unsuccessful surgery. In a mid‐urethral sling operation a tape is placed underneath the urethra, which is the tube that carries urine out of the bladder. When the woman coughs, the tape compresses the tube, thus providing the support necessary to prevent urine leakage. 
There are two main ways of carrying out these operations, either by inserting a tape behind the pubic bone through the abdomen ('retropubic'), or through the groin ('transobturator'). 
What this review tried to find out 
We looked at the effects and costs of mid‐urethral sling operations using the two different methods. We also compared different ways of inserting the tape, and using tapes made from different materials. The purpose of this review was to find out how effective these operations are in the treatment of stress urinary incontinence and help determine potential complications rate. 
Main findings of this review 
We performed a thorough literature search up to June 2014. We identified 81 trials that had a total of 12,113 women. These trials showed that over 80% of women with stress urinary incontinence are cured, or have significant improvement in their symptoms, with either operation, for up to five years after surgery, irrespective of the tapes used and the route of tape insertion. The studies used different questionnaires to assess quality of life, which meant that we could not combine their results . However, the information available for quality of life shows that it improves as a result of these operations, though there is no clear difference between the two procedures. In terms of costs, a non‐systematic review of economic studies suggested that transobturator had lower costs than retropubic methods. Only a few trials provided information about the effectiveness of these tapes more than five years after surgery. The evidence that we have been able to assess indicates that the positive effects persist. 
Adverse effects 
Tapes passing behind the pubic bone (retropubic) seem to carry a greater risk of injuring the bladder during the operation and of women experiencing problems emptying their bladder completely after surgery. However, this operation leads to less groin pain in the short term. There is some limited evidence that this way of inserting the tape has a lower risk of requiring a repeat operation in the long term compared to tapes passing through the groin (transobturator). There is moderate quality evidence that overall reported rates of tape‐related complications are low, such as erosion of the tape into the vagina at about 2% for both routes of tape insertion. The reported occurrence of problems with sexual intercourse including pain was low, and leakage of urine during intercourse are improved following insertion of these tapes. 
Limitations of the review 
Most of our results are based on moderate quality evidence. Most trials did not describe their methods clearly, thus leading to some degree of uncertainty in the findings. At present there are only a limited number of randomised controlled trials (these produce the most reliable results) that have published data beyond five years after surgery. This means that evidence about how effective and safe these procedures are in the longer term lags behind the evidence for them in the short and medium term (up to five years). Longer‐term data are required to help increase the reliability of longer‐term results. 
