Non‐surgical interventions for the management of chronic pelvic pain
Review question 
Cochrane authors considered the evidence for effectiveness and safety of non‐surgical treatrments for managing chronic pelvic pain in women. 
Background 
Chronic pelvic pain in women is a common problem. Specific causes are often difficult to identify, even after investigation with ultrasound and inspection of the pelvis with key hole surgery. Treatment is frequently limited to relief of symptoms obtained with a concoction of medicines. Cochrane review authors examined the evidence about non‐surgical interventions for the management of chronic pelvic pain. 
Study characteristics 
Twenty‐one randomised controlled studies were identified, of which 13 were included. Eight studies were excluded. The studies included a total of 750 women—406 women in the intervention groups and 344 women in the control groups. The interventions assessed included medical treatment and psychological, cognitive, behavioural, complementary and physical therapies. The evidence is current to February 2014. 
Key results 
The review concludes that evidence shows improvement of pain in women given a high dose of progestogen (50 mg medroxyprogesterone acetate) immediately post‐treatment and for up to nine months after treatment. However, progestogen was associated with adverse effects such as weight gain and bloating. Women who underwent reassurance ultrasound scans and who received counselling were more likely to report improved pain than those whose treatment involved a 'wait and see' policy. Some evidence of benefit was seen with writing disclosure therapy and with distension of painful pelvic structures. No good evidence of benefit was noted with other interventions when compared with standard care or placebo. 
The quality of the evidence was low or moderate for most comparisons, and in most cases evidence was derived from single small studies. Moreover, we were unable to draw meaningful conclusions on quality of life and physical and functional outcomes because of the large variation in outcome measures used by the included studies. Many interventions identified in this review involved only single studies with small sample sizes. Additional studies will be required in the future to replicate results obtained with the use of specific medical interventions. 
