High‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for nonrhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of high‐dose chemotherapy (medicines to kill the cancer) followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation compared to standard‐dose chemotherapy on overall survival (time from cancer diagnosis, or treatment, to death from any cause) in people with nonrhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas. We found one randomized controlled trial (RCT; a clinical study where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing both treatments. 
Background 
Nonrhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas are a group of rare cancers. People with inoperable (cannot be removed during an operation) or metastatic (where the cancer has spread to other parts of the body) disease have a poor prognosis (outcome). It was believed that higher doses of chemotherapy might improve people's survival. However, high doses of chemotherapy stop the production of blood cells in the bone marrow and can be harmful. Stem cells (cells that can form into many cell types) collected from people before high‐dose chemotherapy can be transplanted back to the person if the blood cell count gets too low; this is called autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation. Due to a lack of research studies, it has not been proven that people treated like this live any longer than people treated with standard chemotherapy. We wanted to determine whether using high‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation was better or worse than standard‐dose chemotherapy. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 6 September 2016. We found one RCT that compared 38 people in the high‐dose chemotherapy and transplantation group versus 45 people in the chemotherapy‐only group and was judged to have mainly a low risk of bias (as it was well designed). The participants were 18 to 65 years old, had various types of nonrhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas and were monitored for about 55 months. The treatment period ranged from 2000 to 2008. The single RCT was funded by a nonprofit organization (the funder did not benefit if the trial found good results). 
Key results 
The results of the RCT did not favor either of the two treatment arms with respect to overall survival. There was one death related to treatment in the transplantation group and none in the chemotherapy‐only group. There were eight cases of severe nonhematologic (not related to the blood) side effects in the transplantation group and one in the chemotherapy‐only group. 
Quality of evidence 
The overall quality of the data was unclear and based on only one RCT. Currently, research evidence is limited for the use of high‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation for people with non‐rhabdomyosarcoma soft tissue sarcomas. Further evidence is needed through well‐designed clinical trials. 
