Psychological therapies for prevention of winter depression
Why is this review important? 
Many people in northern latitudes suffer from seasonal affective disorder (SAD), which occurs as a reaction to reduced sunlight. Three‐quarters of those affected are women. Lethargy, overeating, craving for carbohydrates and depressed mood are common symptoms. In some people, SAD becomes a depression that seriously affects their daily lives. Up to two‐thirds experience depressive symptoms every winter. 
Who might be interested in this review? 
Anyone who has experienced SAD or who has relatives and friends who have experienced SAD, as well as researchers working in this field might be interested in this review. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
The predictable seasonal aspect of SAD provides a promising opportunity for prevention. However, little is known about the efficacy and potential harms of interventions for preventing SAD. This is one of four reviews conducted to examine the efficacy and side effects of interventions used to prevent SAD; this review focuses on psychological therapy as a preventive intervention in people with a history of SAD who were free of symptoms at the time the preventive intervention was started. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched databases up to 19 June 2018 for studies on psychological therapies to prevent SAD. Among 3745 records, we found one randomised controlled study including 46 people who received a form of psychological therapy ‐ the so called mindfulness‐based cognitive therapy (MBCT) or treatment as usual. Treatment as usual meant that participants did not receive any preventive treatment but were invited to start light therapy as first depressive symptoms occurred. All individuals in these studies had a history of winter depression and were free of depressive symptoms when the study started. 
What does evidence from this review reveal? 
The proportion of participants developing a depression in the upcoming winter was similar in both groups as well as the severity of these depressive episodes. However, the quality of the evidence was very low, so we can draw no valid conclusion if MBCT is really ineffective in preventing SAD or not. The included study reported no information on side effects of the intervention. Doctors need to discuss with patients the advantages and disadvantages of MBCT and other potentially preventive treatments for winter depression, such as other psychological therapies, drug treatments, or lifestyle interventions. As no available studies have compared these treatments, treatment selection should be strongly based on patient preferences and other preventive interventions that are supported by evidence. 
What should happen next? 
Review authors recommend that future studies should evaluate the efficacy of different psychological therapies in preventing SAD in larger study samples and should directly compare these interventions versus other preventive treatments, such as light therapy, antidepressants and agomelatine, to determine the best treatment option for prevention of SAD. 
