Interventions for actinic keratoses
Actinic keratoses are a skin disease caused by long‐term sun exposure. Damaged skin shows small, red, rough, scaly, flat spots called actinic keratoses or lesions, which feel like patches of dry skin. Symptoms such as bleeding and pain can be associated with actinic keratoses. Moreover, actinic keratoses have the potential to develop into skin cancer if left untreated. The reasons for treatment may include cosmetic appearance, relief of symptoms, or prevention of skin cancer. Treatment can be directed either at individual lesions or to larger areas of the skin where several visible and less visible lesions occur (field‐directed treatment). 
This systematic review included results from 83 randomised controlled clinical trials evaluating 24 treatments, with a total of 10,036 participants diagnosed with actinic keratosis. We included 18 topical creams or gels applied to a skin area by the participants: adapalene gel, aretinoid methyl sulfone (Ro 14‐9706), betulin‐based oleogel, calcipotriol (vitamin D), colchicine, diclofenac, 2‐(difluoromethyl)‐dl‐ornithine (DFMO), 5‐fluorouracil, ß‐1,3‐D‐glucan, imiquimod, ingenol mebutate (PEP005), isotretinoin, masoprocol, nicotinamide, resiquimod, sunscreen, DL‐α‐tocopherol (vitamin E), and tretinoin. One treatment, etretinate, was taken orally. Clinical staff administered two mechanical treatments (carbon dioxide and Er:YAG laser resurfacing) on a skin area, and they administered three chemical treatments: cryotherapy on individual lesions, photodynamic therapy on individual lesions or a skin area, and trichloroacetic acid peel on a skin area. 
The clinical effects resulting from the treatment of actinic keratoses were reported differently from one study to another. In spite of this inconsistency, it can be concluded that several good treatment options exist for the treatment of actinic keratoses. Actinic keratoses were successfully treated with cryotherapy, diclofenac, 5‐fluorouracil, imiquimod, ingenol mebutate, photodynamic therapy, resurfacing, and trichloroacetic acid peel. These different treatments were generally comparably effective. Skin irritation was associated with some of these treatments, such as diclofenac and 5‐fluorouracil, but other side‐effects were uncommon. The final cosmetic appearance varies from one treatment to another. Imiquimod treatment and photodynamic therapy resulted in better cosmetic appearance than treatment with cryotherapy and 5‐fluorouracil. 
