Levonorgestrel intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) for endometrial protection in women with breast cancer taking tamoxifen to prevent recurrence 
Review question 
Cochrane authors investigated whether the levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) can reduce the risk of endometrial polyps, abnormal thickening of the lining of the uterus and endometrial cancer in women taking tamoxifen following breast cancer. The review also investigated whether use of the LNG‐IUS influences the risk of abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting, fibroids, breast cancer recurrence or death in women taking tamoxifen following breast cancer. 
Background 
Tamoxifen is commonly used by women to reduce the risk of breast cancer recurrence. Tamoxifen can also cause abnormal changes to the lining of the uterus (endometrium), including polyps and cancer. The LNG‐IUS is a uterine device that releases the synthetic hormone levonorgestrel into the endometrium and causes marked endometrial suppression. As levonorgestrel is a progestin, and many breast cancers are progesterone‐sensitive, it is important to study the safety of the LNG‐IUS in breast cancer survivors. 
Study characteristics 
We included four randomised controlled trials involving 543 women. The studies took place in the UK, Turkey, Egypt and Hong Kong, and the primary outcome in all studies was abnormal changes in the lining of the uterus. Three studies reported on the outcome of fibroids. Three studies reported on abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting. Two studies reported on breast cancer recurrence, and three studies reported on breast cancer‐related death. The evidence is current to June 2020. 
Key results 
This review suggests that the LNG‐IUS probably slightly reduces the risk of endometrial polyps and endometrial hyperplasia over two to five years in women taking tamoxifen following breast cancer. The evidence suggests that if the incidence of endometrial polyps following endometrial surveillance alone is assumed to be 23.5%, the incidence following LNG‐IUS plus endometrial surveillance would be between 3.8% and 10.7%. Evidence also suggests that if 2.8% of women who only had endometrial surveillance developed endometrial hyperplasia, the chance following LNG‐IUS plus endometrial surveillance would be between 0.1% and 1.9%.  
The LNG‐IUS probably increases abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting. After one year, the evidence suggests that if the incidence of abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting following endometrial surveillance alone is assumed to be 1.7%, the incidence following LNG‐IUS plus endometrial surveillance would be between 5.6% and 21.5%. After two years, if 4.2% of women who only had endometrial surveillance experienced abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting, between 4.4% and 23.9% of women who had both surveillance and LNG‐IUS would be expected to experience this. However by five years of follow‐up, no women in either group reported abnormal vaginal bleeding or spotting. 
