Should we administer single‐dose chemotherapy to the bladder after removing the kidney and ureter for the treatment of renal pelvis and ureter cancer? 
Review question 
In people with cancer of the inner lining of their kidney and ureter (the tube that transports urine from the kidney to the bladder) who are having surgery to remove the kidney and ureter, what are the effects of a one‐time dose of chemotherapy into their bladder after surgery. 
Background 
In people with cancer of the inner lining of the bladder, one‐time chemotherapy put into the bladder (after the tumour has been removed) is helpful in making the cancer less likely to come back. We don't know whether the same is true for people in whom the same type of cancer is found in the inner lining of the kidney and ureter. Even if it does, it may also make these people have serious unwanted effects. We performed this study to summarise the best available evidence on the effects of one‐time dose of chemotherapy in these people after removal of the kidney and ureter for cancer. 
Study characteristics 
We found two randomised controlled studies (RCTs), with a total of 361 participants that compared a single‐dose chemotherapy placed in the bladder to no chemotherapy in people having their kidney and ureter removed for cancer of the inner lining of the kidney or ureter, or both. These findings are based on a literature search up to April 15, 2019. 
Key results 
We found that a one‐time dose of chemotherapy put into the bladder after surgery may reduce the risk of this type of tumor coming back in the bladder over time compared to no chemotherapy. We found no evidence whether this affects the time to death from this type of cancer. Serious unwanted effects appear to be rare and not increased with chemotherapy, but we are uncertain of this finding. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Our confidence in the evidence for the effect on the risk of recurrence within the bladder is low. This means that the true effect may be very different from what this review shows. The certainty of evidence for the effects of one‐time chemotherapy put into the bladder on serious unwanted effects was very low. This means that we are very uncertain about this result. 
