Drug treatments for chronic hair‐pulling (trichotillomania)
Trichotillomania (TTM) is a common and disabling condition characterised by repeated hair‐pulling leading to hair loss. TTM can be associated with much distress and impairment. It may also be associated with other psychiatric conditions (known as comorbidities) such as depression and anxiety disorders. Researchers have proposed that medication may be useful to treat this condition. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ People with TTM or other common comorbidities.
‐ Families and friends of people who have TTM or other common comorbidities.
‐ Mental health clinicians, general practitioners, psychiatrists, psychologists and pharmacists. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
‐ Is medication an effective treatment for TTM in adults or children and adolescents? That is, does it have the intended result? 
‐ Does medication reduce the severity of symptoms for adults or children and adolescents with TTM? 
‐ Does medication aid in treating symptoms of depression in adults or children and adolescents with TTM? 
‐ Is medication effective and tolerable for people with TTM in terms of side effects?
‐ Does medication improve quality of life and reduce disability?
Which studies were included in the review? 
‐ We included nine studies comparing a medication with a placebo (control substance/not an active drug) for the treatment of TTM in adults. 
‐ We included one study comparing two different antidepressant drugs with each other for the treatment of TTM in adults. 
‐ We included one study comparing a medication with a placebo for the treatment of TTM in children and adolescents aged 8 to 17 years. 
‐ We included one study comparing a medication with a placebo for the treatment of TTM in adolescents and adults aged 12 to 65 years. 
‐ A total of 298 adults were included from the 11 studies conducted in adults, and a total of 43 children and adolescents were included from the two trials conducted with participants in this age group. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There was insufficient evidence from analysis of individual studies or across multiple scientific studies (known as meta‐analysis) to confirm or refute the effectiveness of any specific agent or class of medication for the treatment of TTM in adults, children or adolescents. In adults, evidence suggests tricyclic antidepressants (TCAs; a type of antidepressant) with predominantly serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SRI; increasing serotonin levels in the brain) actions may show a beneficial treatment effect compared to other TCAs, with reduction in TTM symptom severity. However, certainty in the estimate of effect was low and is based on a single trial comparing clomipramine with desipramine. Antipsychotics in adults may show a beneficial treatment effect and possible reduction of TTM symptom severity, with low‐certainty in the estimate of effect, based on a single trial of olanzapine. Glutamate modulators (a type of amino acid modulator) in adults showed a probable beneficial treatment effect and a likely reduction in TTM symptom severity, with moderate‐certainty in the estimate of effect, although based on a single trial of N‐acetylcysteine (NAC; a glutamate modulator). Glutamate modulators in children and adolescents (8 to 17 years old) showed no evidence for beneficial effect in terms of the percentage of participants responding to treatment in a single study of NAC. However, evidence suggests a potential large reduction in TTM symptom severity; however, with low‐certainty in the estimate. There was little to no evidence for beneficial treatment effects in terms of the percentage of participants responding to treatment or reduction of TTM symptom severity reported for antioxidants, cell signal transducers, opioid antagonists or selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs; a type of antidepressant) in adults, children or adolescents. 
Attrition due to adverse events was only reported for SSRIs and TCAs with predominantly SRI actions in adults and for glutamate modulators in children and adolescents. Glutamate modulators had the least severe side effect profile in adults, while antipsychotics were associated with several adverse side effects, although with low‐certainty in the effect estimate, and based on individual trials for each medication class. There was low‐certainty evidence showing no difference in dropouts due to adverse events between the glutamate modulator group and placebo group in the single study exclusively in children and adolescents. 
