Steroids for short‐term symptom control in infectious mononucleosis (glandular fever)
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effect of steroids on symptom control in people with glandular fever (infectious mononucleosis) when compared to placebo or different medications. 
Background 
Glandular fever is caused by a virus. It spreads in saliva through kissing, coughing and sneezing. Symptoms vary in terms of how severe they are and for how long they persist. While young adults commonly suffer from severe symptoms, some people may have mild symptoms or none. Common symptoms include fever, sore throat, swollen lymph nodes and feeling tired.These symptoms usually last for two to three weeks, but can last for months. Symptom relief and rest are common treatments. Doctors commonly use prednisone, a steroid, to reduce the symptoms of sore throat or enlarged tonsils. However, there is no agreement on its use due to the possibility of little benefit and the chance of side effects. 
Study characteristics 
Our evidence is current to August 2015. We did not identify any new trials for the update of this review. The previous publication of this review included seven trials with 362 participants. Four trials compared the effect of a steroid to a placebo, one to aspirin, and two trials explored the effects of steroids in conjunction with an antiviral. 
The length of treatment varied between a single dose and a 12‐day course. The doses used also varied. The length of follow‐up varied from short periods (i.e. days or weeks) to longer periods (i.e. six months and 12 months). 
Key results 
Steroid treatment relieved sore throat in the short term (at 12 hours). The researchers noticed a benefit at two to four days when steroids were used in combination with an antiviral medication, but these findings are limited since researchers assessed them in one or two trials only. The findings on the effect of steroids alone or when used with an antiviral medication for other symptoms were less clear. We are unsure about adverse effects from using steroids. With the exception of two trials, most studies did not set out a prior plan to evaluate the occurrence of side effects, or other adverse events. None of the trials explored adverse effects in the longer term (over years). 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the included trials was generally poor. We cannot know the exact effect of using steroids for glandular fever. 
