Interventions for morphea
Review question 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess the effects of treatments, either given in isolation or combination, for people with morphea (morphoea), when compared with an inactive substance (placebo), no intervention, any other treatment, or different doses or duration of a treatment. We collected and analysed all relevant studies published up to July 2018. 
Background 
Morphea is a rare disease that causes skin hardening. It affects adults and children equally, and is more common in females. There are different subtypes of morphea, with different characteristics: circumscribed morphea is generally less severe than the other subtypes; linear scleroderma can cause significant body differences, possibly affecting growth in children; generalised morphea is a severe type involving multiple areas of the body; pansclerotic morphea is a severe and progressive type of generalised morphea; and mixed morphea is the presence of two or more disease types. Recurrence rates are high, and even when disease activity reduces, a person can be left with permanent effects. This review intended to assess the safety and effectiveness of different treatments for morphea. 
Study characteristics 
We found 14 relevant studies, with a total of 429 participants, including children and adults aged from three to 76 years. Over half of the participants were female. Most participants had circumscribed morphea, followed by linear scleroderma. Six studies did not describe their setting, but the rest were set in university hospital, medical centre, or national laboratory centre. Seven studies received funding from either universities, government or association scholarships, or the pharmaceutical industry. Six studies had no funding, and one study did not report this information. 
Seven studies compared topical medications: phototherapy; an immunosuppressive (suppresses immune system activity); an antiallergic drug; and a corticosteroid (an anti‐inflammatory). Two studies compared medications within the lesion itself: collagen, and an immunomodulator (modifies the immune response). Five studies compared systemic medications (meaning they affect the whole body): an immunosuppressive; traditional Chinese medicine therapies; and a vitamin D analogue (a form of vitamin D). These treatments were compared with either no treatment; placebo; differing doses of phototherapy; hydroxychloroquine (an immune system regulator); emollient petrolatum (moisturising treatment); corticosteroids; an anticoagulant agent (blood thinner) taken with a medicinal plant extract and vitamin E tablet; or antibiotic with base cream. The studies lasted between seven weeks and 15 months. 
Key results 
The results we present in this summary are based on low‐quality evidence.
Children and teenagers with active morphea (linear scleroderma, generalised morphea and mixed morphea: linear and circumscribed) may experience greater improvement of disease activity or damage with oral methotrexate plus prednisone than with placebo plus prednisone. We would expect that out of 100 children and teenagers, 67 would experience improvement with methotrexate, compared with 29 given placebo; this is based on results measured either 12 months after start of treatment or until flare of the disease. In addition, there may be little or no difference in the number of participants experiencing at least one side effect during treatment (such as hair loss, headache, sickness, tiredness, or liver damage) between those given methotrexate and those given placebo. Side effects from prednisone (given in both groups) included weight gain and stretch marks. We would expect that out of 100 children and teenagers, 56 would experience at least one side effect with methotrexate, compared with 46 given placebo. 
Children and adults with active morphea (circumscribed morphea, linear scleroderma, generalised morphea, or mixed morphea) may present similar reduction in disease activity or damage with medium‐dose (50 J/cm²) UVA‐1, low‐dose (20 J/cm²) UVA‐1, or narrowband UVB phototherapy. Those treated with medium‐dose (50 J/cm²) UVA‐1 or low‐dose (20 J/cm²) UVA‐1 phototherapy may have mild tanning after the treatment compared to those treated with narrowband UVB phototherapy. However, there may be no difference in the number of participants reporting mild tanning when comparing medium‐ and low‐dose UVA‐1 phototherapy. Temporary redness was reported in three participants given narrowband UVB and none of the participants in either the low‐ or medium‐dose UVA‐1 groups. 
