Early intervention (movement or active exercise) for critically ill adults in the intensive care unit 
Review question 
Does helping critically ill adults to move or exercise early in their stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) improve their ability to perform everyday activities such as walking, and the ability to perform daily self care on discharge from hospital? We reviewed the evidence for this question, to see if there are benefits to early exercise, including the amount of time spent in the ICU or hospital, muscle strength, feelings of well‐being, and also to see if there are harms, such as the occurrence of falls. The movement or exercise could include things such as moving in, or sitting out of bed, practicing standing up, walking, arm exercises, and self‐care activities such as eating or brushing hair. 
Background 
Adults who are critically ill, and spend time in an ICU, can develop muscle weakness and other problems. This can occur because of the illness that led to their admission to the ICU, treatments associated with this illness, the impact of ongoing health conditions, and their lack of movement while in the ICU. They may also have ongoing problems when they leave ICU (or hospital) such as having trouble doing daily activities (for example dressing, bathing and mobility); feeling depressed or anxious and having difficulty returning to work. 
We wanted to evaluate if assisting these people to move early in their ICU stay would allow them to be better able to look after themselves, be stronger and feel better about life. 
Study characteristics 
We found four studies that included a total of 690 adults who had been in the ICU. Patients were randomized to receive exercises and assistance to move early in their stay in the ICU or to usual care. All participants had been on a breathing machine at some point during their time in the ICU. Three studies included adults with critical illness involving severe disease of the lungs or severe body response to infection and one study involved adults who had undergone cardiac surgery. 
Study funding sources 
One study was funded by the Intensive Care Foundation, Royal Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Australia and the investigator was supported by a Postgraduate Award from Singapore. 
