Drug treatments to ease breathlessness in cystic fibrosis
Review question 
What is the evidence that drug treatments for breathlessness (also known as dyspnoea) in people with cystic fibrosis are effective and safe? 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a life‐limiting genetic disease. As the disease progresses, thick sticky mucus is formed in the lungs, pancreas and other organs. This thick mucus increases risk of infection, blocks the airways and causes severe breathlessness. Easing of this breathlessness is an important goal for care of people with cystic fibrosis. Many methods have been suggested to address this problem and many drugs have been reported to ease breathlessness. The drugs can be administered through various routes ‐ they might be inhaled, swallowed, injected under the skin, into muscle or into a vein or be absorbed through the skin (either on the body or through membranes inside the mouth or nose). Despite so many drugs being available, there are no defined guidelines for drug treatments aimed at easing breathlessness in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
The evidence from the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis Trials Register is current to 18 November 2019; the searches of ongoing trial registries are current to 06 March 2020. 
Study characteristics 
We had planned to include studies comparing different treatments to ease breathlessness in people with cystic fibrosis where the participants were put into the different treatment groups at random. Our search found only one study in which seven people first received either a drug called hydrocodone or a placebo (dummy treatment) and then swapped to the other treatment; but this study did not report results separately for each treatment arm, so we are not able to include it in the review. 
Key results 
No studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria, therefore it is not possible to comment on the outcomes we wished to report on in this review. Until evidence becomes available, the review authors feel that it is advisable for doctors to follow any local or national guidelines. The authors recommend research in this area should take ethical considerations into account and should focus on the safety of the drugs, improvement in quality of life, breathlessness scores and length of hospital stay. 
