Silver‐coated endotracheal tubes (ETTs) for prevention of ventilator‐associated pneumonia in critically ill people 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of whether silver‐coated endotracheal tubes (ETTs) are effective in reducing the risk of ventilator‐associated pneumonia (VAP) and hospital mortality in comparison with standard non‐coated ETTs in people who require mechanical ventilation for 24 hours or longer. 
Background 
Mechanical ventilation is used to help people breathe when they are very ill and find it difficult to breath on their own. An endotracheal tube is a disposable tube that is inserted into the person's windpipe to allow mechanical ventilation. In mechanical ventilation a machine is used to replace the natural spontaneous breathing and allows air in and out of the lungs. When used for a long period, mechanical ventilation can cause problems for the patient. Mechanical ventilation is associated with complications. Silver is an antimicrobial agent (an agent that kills bacteria) that has been used for many centuries to treat and prevent infections. Silver coating around the ETTs could prevent VAP because of its antimicrobial activity. 
Study characteristics 
We found three randomized controlled trials involving 2081 participants. No outcome data were available for one included study. The design of the other two RCTs was generally good, although there were some weaknesses. The majority of participants were included in centres around North America. The evidence is current to October 2014. Both RCTs were funded but stated that the sponsors contributed only to the study design and did not participate in the conduct of the study. 
Key results 
We found that silver‐coated ETT reduced the risk for developing VAP from 6.7% to 3.5% within 10 days of intubation compared with non‐coated ETT in people who required mechanical ventilation for 24 hours of longer, although the quality of evidence for this outcome was low. One study showed that an initial VAP occurrence appeared much later in time in people who had a silver‐coated ETT compared with a non‐coated ETT, although again the evidence was low quality. We could not draw conclusions about hospital mortality, device‐related complications, duration of intubation, and length of hospital and intensive care unit stay owing to uncertainty of the effects. We found no clinical studies evaluating the cost‐effectiveness of silver‐coated ETTs. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of evidence was low for all interested outcomes mentioned.
Conclusion 
Limited evidence suggests that silver‐coated ETT seems to be an effective device in reducing the risk of VAP, although data for our other key outcome of hospital mortality were inconclusive. Larger studies with more participants who are at risk for VAP and who require mechanical ventilation for a longer period of time are needed. 
