Fulvestrant in the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence concerning the effectiveness and safety of fulvestrant in prolonging time without further progression of cancer in women with advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer. We found nine studies testing whether or not fulvestrant is superior to other treatment options. 
Background 
Seventy percent of breast cancers are sensitive to hormones, and there are a variety of endocrine therapies that lower or block female hormones to treat these cancers. Fulvestrant is one such endocrine therapy that can be used to treat hormone‐sensitive breast cancers by blocking oestrogen. It is administered by monthly injection for women with advanced disease. The definition of advanced disease is when the primary cancer in the breast has either spread to heavily involve the lymph nodes or grown to a considerably large size (stage III) or when the cancer has spread beyond the breast and the lymph nodes to other tissues or organs, or both (stage IV). The goal of treatment in these settings is to improve quality of life, reduce symptoms caused by the cancer, and extend length of life. It is noteworthy that the studies examined in this review predominantly used a lower dose of fulvestrant (250 mg) as compared to the now standard, more effective, and approved dose of 500 mg. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 7 July 2015. Our review identified nine clinical trials that compared the effectiveness and safety of fulvestrant against other standard treatments for advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer and pooled the data from these trials to analyse all the data together. Three different endocrine therapies were analysed as comparator drugs against fulvestrant. Two of these drugs were the aromatase inhibitors anastrozole and exemestane, which lower oestrogen levels in postmenopausal women, and the third was tamoxifen, which works by blocking oestrogen. Four of the studies were in the first‐line setting, meaning that fulvestrant was tested against these endocrine therapies as the initial treatment for advanced disease. Five of the studies tested fulvestrant in the second‐line or more setting, meaning after the women had progressed on a prior initial treatment for advanced disease. Two studies examined fulvestrant in combination with anastrozole against anastrozole alone, and the other seven studies compared fulvestrant alone with other comparator drugs. 
Key results 
We found that fulvestrant was at least as effective as the other three standard endocrine therapies used in the treatment of advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer and is possibly more effective at the new standard dose of 500 mg, rather than the lower dose of 250 mg, which was previously used and tested in all but one of the included studies. We also found that combining fulvestrant with an aromatase inhibitor did not improve effectiveness, and neither was effectiveness influenced by whether fulvestrant was used as the first treatment upon diagnosis of advanced disease or after another endocrine therapy. This was evident in the pooled data analysis for both survival time without progression of cancer and the rate of tumour shrinkage or stabilisation due to fulvestrant as compared with the other endocrine therapies. In addition, fulvestrant‐treated women did not experience worse side effects than those receiving the comparator endocrine therapies, and quality of life was equivalent in both fulvestrant‐treated women and women treated with the other endocrine therapies. 
Fulvestrant can therefore be considered an effective and safe treatment for postmenopausal women with advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer, when treatment with endocrine therapy is indicated. 
Quality of the evidence 
All studies were of high quality.
