Combined glaucoma and cataract surgery versus cataract surgery alone for eyes with cataract and glaucoma 
Review question  The aim of this systematic review was to compare the effectiveness and safety of combined glaucoma and cataract surgery compared with cataract surgery alone. 
Background  Cataract and glaucoma are leading causes of blindness worldwide. Good vision requires a transparent lens in the eye. Cataract is a clouding of the lens that is increasingly common with age. The most common treatment for cataract is surgery, in which the cloudy lens of a person's eye is removed and, usually, replaced with an artificial lens. Glaucoma is a chronic progressive disease of the optic nerve which leads to irreversible vision loss. The most important risk factor associated with glaucoma is high pressure in the eye, known as intraocular pressure (IOP). Thus, glaucoma treatment aims to lower IOP and prevent loss of vision. When medications and laser treatment are no longer able to lower IOP, surgery is necessary. The most common glaucoma surgery is called trabeculectomy, which creates an opening in the wall of the eye to release fluid from within the eye and reduce the IOP. 
Since many elderly people have both cataract and glaucoma, the decision to perform both surgeries at the same time or cataract surgery alone must be made. This decision is difficult to make because glaucoma surgery can accelerate cataract progression, cataract surgery can lower IOP independently, and performing both surgeries may increase the rate of complications. 
Study characteristics  We included nine studies in which a total of 655 people (657 eyes) were enrolled. Participants had glaucoma and age‐related cataract, and each study compared combined cataract and glaucoma surgery versus cataract surgery alone. Seven trials were conducted in Europe, one in Canada and South Africa, and one in the United States. Three trials were conducted at multiple centers, and the follow‐up period ranged from 12 to 30 months after surgery. The evidence is current to 3 October 2014. 
Key results  We concluded from the available evidence that combined glaucoma and cataract surgery may lead to slightly greater decreases in IOP one year after surgery compared with cataract surgery alone. However, due to differences in the effects among the individual studies and potential for bias in the study results, this conclusion is not definitive. The effect between combined surgery and cataract surgery alone on the rate of complications was uncertain. No information was available for long‐term outcomes (five or more years after surgery). 
