Collaborative care for people with depression and anxiety
Many people suffer from depression and anxiety. These problems can make people feel sad, scared and even suicidal, and can affect their work, their relationships and their quality of life. Depression and anxiety can occur because of personal, financial, social or health problems. 
‘Collaborative care’ is an innovative way of treating depression and anxiety. It involves a number of health professionals working with a patient to help them overcome their problems. Collaborative care often involves a medical doctor, a case manager (with training in depression and anxiety), and a mental health specialist such as a psychiatrist. The case manager has regular contact with the person and organises care, together with the medical doctor and specialist. The case manager may offer help with medication, or access to a ‘talking therapy’ to help the patient get better. 
Collaborative care has been tested with patients in a number of countries and health care systems, but it is not clear whether it should be recommended for people with depression or anxiety. 
In this review we found 79 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (90 comparisons) including 24,308 patients worldwide, comparing collaborative care with routine care or alternative treatments (such as consultation‐liaison) for depression and anxiety. There were problems with the methods in some of the studies. For example, the methods used to allocate patients to collaborative care or routine care were not always free from bias, and many patients did not complete follow‐up or provide information about their outcomes. Most of the studies focused on depression and the evidence suggests that collaborative care is better than routine care in improving depression for up to two years. A smaller number of studies examined the effect of collaborative care on anxiety and the evidence suggests that collaborative care is also better than usual care in improving anxiety for up to two years. Collaborative care increases the number of patients using medication in line with current guidance, and can improve mental health related quality of life. Patients with depression and anxiety treated with collaborative care are also more satisfied with their treatment. 
