Comparing different types of antibiotics given routinely to women at caesarean section to reduce infections 
What is the issue? 
We wanted to find out if giving specific types of antibiotics routinely at caesarean sections reduced the number of women and babies with infections, when compared with other types of antibiotics. We also looked to see if there were differences in adverse effects. The main types of antibiotics we considered were ones which target infections most commonly seen after giving birth, so we looked mainly at cephalosporins versus penicillins. We collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question (date of latest search 2 December 2019). 
Why is this important? 
Women undergoing caesarean section have an increased likelihood of infection compared with women giving birth vaginally. These infections can come from the urine, the surgical incision, or occur in the lining of the womb (endometritis). Infections can be serious, causing, for example, an abscess in the pelvis or infection in the blood. Very occasionally they can lead to a mother's death, particularly in low‐resource settings. Good surgical techniques are important to reduce infection, along with the use of skin antiseptics and giving antibiotics before the initiation of the caesarean section. Antibiotics can, however, cause adverse effects in the mother, such as nausea, vomiting, skin rash and in some rare cases allergic reactions. The mother and the baby can develop thrush (candida). Antibiotics given to women around the time of giving birth can also change the baby's gut flora and may interfere with the baby's developing immune system. 
What evidence did we find? 
We included 39 studies, of which 33 studies involving 8073 women and their babies provided data. The quality of the individual studies was generally unclear, which led to overall low or very low certainty of the evidence. Three of the 33 studies were undertaken with drug company funding. Most of the studies administered antibiotics at or after cord clamping, although practice now often gives antibiotics before skin incision. 
Eight studies with data on 1540 women reported on antistaphylococcal cephalosporins (first and second generation) versus broad spectrum penicillins plus betalactamase inhibitors. We found that these antibiotics may be as effective as each other in reducing endometritis and maternal fever. We were uncertain which antibiotic performed better for wound infection, urinary tract infection, and maternal adverse effects such as nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea and skin rash. We did not find any evidence on longer‐term outcomes for mothers once they left hospital, or on any outcomes for babies. Only one small study (75 women) reported on blood infection (sepsis) in mothers, with too few events to identify any clear differences between the antibiotics. 
We identified no studies with evidence on antistaphylococcal cephalosporins versus lincosamides, nor antistaphylococcal cephalosporins versus lincosamides plus aminoglycosides. The other studies looked at a very large number of different comparisons with insufficient data to come to any firm conclusions about specific comparisons. 
