Present‐centered therapy (PCT) for post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in adults
Review Question 
Is present‐centered therapy (PCT) an effective treatment option for adults with post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) as compared to the recommended trauma‐focused cognitive‐behavioral therapies (TF‐CBT)? 
Background 
PTSD is a psychiatric disorder that can develop in individuals who are exposed to a traumatic event. Although most trauma survivors experience gradual diminishment of symptoms and recover from the trauma exposure, some will go on to develop PTSD and experience persistent symptoms that disrupt biological, psychological, and social functioning. 
TF‐CBT is considered one of the most effective treatments for PTSD. Trauma‐focused therapies require patients to think about and/or talk about their prior traumas, which may prevent some patients from accessing or engaging in these treatments. PCT is a non‐trauma based treatment that incorporates common psychotherapeutic components, and which may appeal to patients reluctant to engage in trauma‐focused treatments. Although originally developed to be a treatment comparator in TF‐CBT trials, PCT has performed well in these trials and may be associated with lower treatment dropout rates. If PCT is deemed to be comparably as effective as TF‐CBT and also has lower treatment dropout rates, then it may be a preferred treatment option for those who do not want to participate in trauma‐focused treatments. This systematic review seeks to determine whether PCT is an effective treatment option compared to TF‐CBT for adults with PTSD. 
Study Characteristics 
This review included 12 studies that comprised a total of 1837 participants. Eleven studies that included 1826 participants contributed to the quantitative syntheses. Participants were all adults, but ranged in demographics and trauma types. All studies recruited participants in the United States and there was a predominance of studies conducted on military veterans. 
Key Results 
PCT does not appear to be as effective as trauma focused treatments in reducing PTSD severity at post‐treatment. However, PCT is associated with reduced treatment dropout rates compared to TF‐CBT. 
Quality of the Evidence 
Several of the TF‐CBT trials included in this review were well designed and executed. However, we assessed the overall quality of evidence for our primary outcome (post‐treatment PTSD severity) as low based on inconsistent outcomes and some imprecision in the results. We rated the quality of the evidence on differential treatment dropout as moderate. 
