Different methods of manipulation for reducing pulled elbow in young children
What is pulled elbow? 
Pulled elbow is a dislocation of the elbow joint in a young child which is often caused by an adult, or taller person, suddenly pulling or tugging on the child's arm when it is straight, or when a child pulls away from an adult impulsively. It can also be caused by a fall or twist. The child immediately complains of pain and cannot use his or her arm.  How is it treated?  Treatment usually consists of manipulating the arm to get the bones of the elbow back into their correct position. It is usually treated by manual intervention. There are two typical manoeuvres, supination and pronation. In supination, the forearm is twisted or rotated outwards (palm of child’s hand faces upwards), sometimes followed by bending of the elbow (flexion). While this is often used, it is not always successful. In pronation, the forearm is twisted or rotated inwards (palm of child’s hand faces downwards). Both methods are generally safe, although bruising can occur and they can be painful. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical literature databases up to September 2016. We found nine small studies involving a total of 906 children, all of whom were younger than seven years old. Around six out of 10 children were girls. Eight studies were performed in emergency departments or ambulatory care centres. One study was performed in a specialist paediatric orthopaedic unit. Eight trials compared pronation versus supination. One compared two methods of supination. 
Key results 
The pronation method (with the hand downward) may be more successful in repositioning at first attempt for children with a pulled elbow. We estimated that if six children were treated with the pronation method rather than the supination method, this would avoid one more failure at the first attempt. The evidence was insufficient to draw any conclusions as to which, if either, of the two methods was more painful. Where there was a second attempt using the same method, pronation may be more successful as a second attempt. In a few cases, up to four in 100, none of a series of attempts were successful. None of the studies reported on side effects or how many children had another pulled elbow subsequently (recurrence). 
The study comparing two methods of supination provided very low‐quality evidence that failure after the first attempt was similar in both methods. 
Quality of the evidence 
All nine studies had methodological limitations that may affect the reliability of their findings and put them at high risk of bias. The quality of the evidence for failure at first attempt in the pronation versus supination comparison was low, meaning that we are uncertain about the results. The very low quality of the evidence for the other outcomes for both comparisons means we are very uncertain about the results. 
Conclusions 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that the pronation method is more successful than the supination method for reducing pulled elbow in young children. No conclusions can be drawn on other outcomes, including pain and side effects. 
