Surgical methods to decrease blood loss during liver surgery
Background 
Many cancerous and non‐cancerous growths that develop in the liver are treated by removing part of the liver (liver resection), which is major surgery with high risk of complications, including blood loss during division of the liver tissue. Specialists have tested several methods to decrease blood loss during liver resection. These include lowering the pressure in the liver veins (low central venous pressure) or decreasing the amount of air that enters and leaves the lungs (hypoventilation), again aimed at decreasing central venous pressure; different ways of cutting the liver, for example, without any special equipment or using ultrasound waves or high‐frequency (radiofrequency); applying glue to decrease bleeding from the cut surface; blocking the blood supply to the liver during the operation, a process known as vascular occlusion, which could be performed continuously or intermittently. In addition, medical treatments that improve clotting of blood can be given to decrease blood loss. A surgeon typically uses one or more methods to decrease blood loss during liver surgery. The optimal method is unknown. We sought to identify the best methods of decreasing blood loss during liver surgery by performing a literature search that included all studies reported until September 2015. We used special statistical methods, so‐called network meta‐analyses. to compare the different treatments simultaneously as compared to the traditional Cochrane method of comparing two treatments at a time as there are multiple treatment strategies. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 67 randomised clinical trials involving a total of 6197 participants that met our inclusion criteria. However, we were only able to include 5771 participants from 64 trials since investigators either did not include the remaining participants in the analysis or did not report any outcomes of interest. 
Source of funding: 24 trials (35.8%) were funded by parties with no financial interest in obtaining positive results for the treatment being evaluated. The remaining trials received funding from either parties who would gain financially from the results of the study or did not report the funding. 
Quality of evidence 
All the trials were at high risk of bias, that is, investigators may have overestimated the benefits or underestimated the harms of one method or the other because of the way that the studies were conducted. Many trials included few participants, and there was a good chance of arriving at the wrong conclusions because of this. The overall quality of evidence was low or very low. 
