Lithium for the treatment of acute mania
Review question 
Is lithium (a mood‐stabilising medication) as effective at treating an episode of mania (high mood) as other available drug treatments or electroconvulsive therapy (ECT)? 
Background 
Bipolar disorder is a common condition in which people experience episodes of low mood (depression) and high mood (mania). The symptoms of bipolar disorder may lower quality of life. Traditionally a range of medications have been used to treat mania, including medications that try to lessen changes in mood (e.g. lithium, valproate, lamotrigine, carbamazepine, divalproex, topiramate), and those that reduce distressing experiences, such as hearing voices or having unusual ideas (e.g. olanzapine, risperidone, quetiapine, aripiprazole, haloperidol, chlorpromazine). ECT (delivering an electric shock to the brain whilst the patient is under a general anaesthetic) is also a treatment for mania. We already know that lithium is the most effective of all these treatments for keeping people with bipolar disorder well in the long term, but we do not know if it is as effective for treating mania. 
Method 
The review authors searched for studies comparing lithium to other treatments for mania published up to May 2018. We identified 36 randomised studies, including 4220 participants who attended hospitals in at least 30 different countries. Randomisation means that each participant has the same chance of being assigned to each of the study groups, and reduces the chance that unknown but important factors could influence the study accidentally. Three studies included children and adolescents aged under 18 years. The studies compared lithium to placebo (inactive substance), ECT and 12 other medications for between three and 12 weeks. 
Results 
Lithium is an effective treatment for acute mania. Lithium was more effective than a placebo or the anti‐epileptic drug topiramate. There was some evidence that lithium may be less effective than the antipsychotic drug olanzapine, but this needs further investigation. There was no evidence that lithium was better or worse at treating mania than any of the other drugs, and not enough evidence to draw a conclusion for ECT. 
There was not enough evidence to provide a definite answer as to which treatment for mania has the fewest side effects. It is probable that more people will develop a mild tremor when treated with lithium than other treatments. Participants were not more likely to withdraw from a study if they were treated with lithium compared to another treatment. 
