Education for people with coronary heart disease
Review question 
What are the effects of patient education delivered as part of cardiac rehabilitation, compared with usual care on mortality, morbidity, health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and healthcare costs in patients with coronary heart disease (CHD)? 
Background 
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the single most common cause of death globally. However, more people now live with heart disease and may need support to manage symptoms and reduce risk of future problems such as heart attacks. Education is a common element of cardiac rehabilitation, which aims to improve the health and outcomes of people with heart disease. This is an update of a review last published in 2011. 
Search date 
We searched up to June 2016.
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific literature for randomised controlled trials (experiments that randomly allocate participants to one of two or more treatment groups) looking at the effectiveness of education‐based treatments compared with no education in people of all ages with CHD. 
We included nine new trials which involved 8215 people with coronary heart disease that compared patient education with no education. We included a total of 22 trials that studied 76,864 people with heart disease, most of whom had survived heart attack, and had undergone heart bypass surgery or angioplasty (a procedure which opens blocked vessels that supply blood to heart muscle). 
Study funding sources 
Sixteen studies reported sources of funding; six did not report funding sources. One study was funded by an industrial sponsor, four by health insurance companies and 11 by government or public sources. 
Key results 
Findings of this update are similar to the last review version (2011). Patient education, as part of a cardiac rehabilitation programme, does not contribute to fewer deaths, further heart attacks, heart by‐pass or angioplasty, or admission to hospital for heart‐related problems. There is some evidence of fewer other heart‐related events and improvements in health‐related quality of life with education‐based interventions. Individual causes of death were not reported, so we were unable to determine how many people in the studies died from heart‐related causes or other causes of death. 
Although there is insufficient information at present to fully understand the benefits or harms of patient education for people with heart disease, our findings broadly support current guidelines that people with heart disease should receive comprehensive rehabilitation that includes education. Further research is needed to evaluate the most clinically and cost‐effective ways of providing education for people with heart disease. 
Quality of evidenceOverall, evidence was assessed as very low to moderate quality. 
