Interventions for swallowing difficulty in long‐term, progressive muscle disease
Review question 
What is the effect of interventions for dysphagia in people with long‐term, progressive muscle disease? 
Background 
People with progressive muscle disease often develop swallowing difficulties (dysphagia) as a result of weakness. These changes in swallowing function can lead to weight loss or inability to gain weight, as well as breathing problems due to food inhalation into the airways and recurrent respiratory infections. Fear or embarrassment about symptoms such as choking, coughing, or spluttering while eating and long meal times can also lead to psychological and social difficulties for those living with dysphagia. We wanted to find out how effective a range of different interventions are for treating dysphagia in people with long‐term, progressive muscle disease. 
Study characteristics 
This review included one trial (22 participants), which compared the effect of three months' intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg) therapy with placebo. Three participants were also treated with prednisone during the trial. Some limitations in the design, conduct, and reporting of the study might have affected the results. We were most interested in the degree to which treatment affected weight, in terms of either halting weight loss or producing weight gain. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
We identified only one randomised controlled trial of intervention for managing dysphagia in one muscle disease, inclusion body myositis. There was not enough evidence for or against any specific intervention for dysphagia. Clinically relevant effects of IVIg for dysphagia in inclusion body myositis can neither be confirmed nor ruled out using the evidence in this review. This trial did not assess weight gain or maintenance or fully report effects of IVIg on swallowing, which the investigators measured using a self report questionnaire and videofluoroscopy (a moving X‐ray of swallowing). Any harmful effects were not fully reported. Overall quality of the evidence was low due to limitations in study design and reporting. 
The evidence is up to date to January 2016.
