Beta‐blockers for cardiac risk reduction in people undergoing non‐cardiac vascular surgery 
Background 
As the population is ageing, more people will undergo major vascular surgery, which carries an increased risk of cardiac complications. The increased risk of cardiac complications is often the result of asymptomatic heart disease. Treating severe symptoms, such as critical limb ischaemia (severely narrowed arteries of the lower limbs resulting in rest pain, ulcers, or gangrene), in people with peripheral arterial disease is a common reason for undergoing vascular surgery, which carries an increased risk heart attack (myocardial infarction) ranging from 5% to 24% during and shortly after surgery. There is clear evidence for the use of beta‐blockers (a class of medications used to treat certain heart conditions as well as high‐blood pressure and other conditions) to reduce cardiac risk in people with known heart disease, and it has been suggested that beta‐blockers may reduce short‐term cardiac illness (morbidity) and death (mortality) in people undergoing major non‐cardiac vascular surgery. 
Study characteristics 
We identified two studies that evaluated beta‐blockers giving during surgery (perioperatively) in people undergoing major non‐cardiac vascular surgery, with follow‐up data on cardiovascular outcomes. A total of 599 participants were randomised to receive beta‐blockers (301 participants) or placebo (298 participants). Both studies were double‐blind (neither participants nor surgeon were aware of the treatment), randomised controlled trials evaluating the beta‐blocker, metoprolol. 
Key results 
The results of the analysis offered no clear evidence that perioperative beta‐blockers reduced death from any cause (all‐cause mortality), cardiovascular death, non‐fatal heart attack, irregular heartbeat (arrhythmia), heart failure, stroke, combined cardiovascular events or re‐hospitalisation at 30 days. There was evidence to support that beta‐blockers increased the risk of intra‐operative low heart rate (bradycardia) and low blood pressure (hypotension). These complications should be weighed with any benefit when considering the use of beta‐blockers in this population. 
