Fundal pressure during the second stage of labour for improving maternal and fetal outcomes 
What is the issue? 
The second stage of labour is the pushing stage, from when the cervix is fully dilated (to 10 cm) until the baby is born. Fetal distress, failure to progress, maternal exhaustion or a medical condition where prolonged pushing is dangerous, can complicate this stage. Applying fundal pressure by pushing on the mother’s abdomen in the direction of the birth canal is often used to assist spontaneous vaginal birth, shorten the length of the second stage and reduce the need for instrumental birth (forceps‐ or vacuum‐assisted) or caesarean section. It is particularly relevant in low‐resource settings where options for operative birth are limited or not available. Manual pressure can be applied each time the woman has a contraction. Alternatively an inflatable belt can be worn which inflates to apply pressure during the contractions. 
This review aimed to answer whether fundal pressure during contractions in the second stage of labour helps women give birth vaginally, and whether it causes any negative consequences for the woman or her unborn baby. 
Why is this important? 
A long labour can sometimes be dangerous for some women and their babies. Sometimes the unborn baby and woman can become exhausted during the labour and birth. In many countries, there are trained professionals who can assist with ventouse, forceps or caesarean sections. However in other countries, these resources are often lacking, and long labours can be life‐threatening. Fundal pressure may help the woman to give birth. It may also possibly increase complications for the baby and mother. There is not a lot of knowledge on this topic, and it is important to know how these techniques might affect the women and their babies. 
What evidence did we find? 
This updated Cochrane Review found nine randomised controlled trials involving 3948 women (search date 30 November 2016). Five studies (including 3057 women) looked at manual fundal pressure versus no fundal pressure and four studies (including 891 women) looked at fundal pressure applied using an inflatable belt. 
We found no evidence that manual fundal pressure made a difference to numbers of women giving birth vaginally within a given time (very low‐quality evidence), or having an instrumental birth, caesarean section, or vaginal birth (very low‐quality evidence). The time women took to give birth when pushing was not affected by manual fundal pressure (very low‐quality evidence). The numbers of babies who did not cope well with labour and had low arterial cord pH, or low Apgar scores were the same whether their mother had fundal pressure or not (all very low‐quality evidence). No babies died in either group. Studies did not report on possible severe problems or death of the women. 
For women giving birth for the first time, fundal pressure by inflatable belt could possibly mean that fewer women had an instrumental or caesarean birth (very low‐quality evidence), but the evidence was not clear. In these women, the inflatable belt meant they pushed for less time than women pushing without the belt (very low‐quality evidence). The inflatable belt did not make any difference to numbers of women having caesarean sections, babies with low arterial cord pH (low‐quality evidence), or Apgar scores five minutes after birth (very low‐quality evidence). No studies reported if the women gave birth within a given time, numbers of babies that died or possible serious problems or death of the women. No studies used inflatable belts in women who had given birth before. 
What does this mean? 
There is not enough evidence from randomised controlled trials to show whether manual fundal pressure or fundal pressure by inflatable belt are effective ways of shortening the pushing stage of labour and avoiding operative births, and whether the techniques are safe. So currently there is insufficient evidence to support the use of fundal pressure by any method in the second stage of labour. 
Future studies should be of good quality, clearly describe how fundal pressure was applied, and focus on safety of the unborn baby, perineal outcomes, longer‐term maternal outcomes and the mothers’ satisfaction. 
