Measuring galactomannan in lung‐washing fluid to diagnose invasive aspergillosis in patients with an impaired immune system 
Why is improving the accuracy of the diagnosis of invasive fungal disease important? 
Some people have a weakened immune system; they are said to be 'immunocompromised'. People can be immunocompromised when they have leukaemia, or HIV/AIDS, and when using some forms of medication. 
Immunocompromised means that the immune system is less able to fight infections. This can result in an infection that does not occur under normal conditions. This is called an opportunistic infection. An example is aspergillosis, an infection caused by a fungus. As the fungal infection is not stopped by the immune system, it spreads through the body. The fungus 'invades' the body ‐ hence we call this invasive aspergillosis. This may be lethal. Early diagnosis allows timely treatment and stops the fungus from further invading the body. 
What diagnostic test was studied in the review? 
We wanted to find out how good 'galactomannan detection' is for diagnosing an infection of invasive aspergillosis. 
Galactomannan detection is a diagnostic procedure. It works by passing an instrument through the mouth or nose into the airways. Fluid is flushed into a part of the lung. This fluid washes fungi and other microbes from the lungs and is collected and analysed. This process is called bronchoalveolar lavage (lung‐washing), shortened to BAL. One of the things that may be in the collected BAL fluid is galactomannan, a component of the fungal cell wall. 
The result of the BAL galactomannan test is part of international criteria used to differentiate between patients who are likely to have invasive aspergillosis and patients who are less likely to have invasive aspergillosis. If multiple criteria are fulfilled (e.g. imaging tests and clinical signs and symptoms), then the patients will be treated with antifungal medication. 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to determine the error rate of galactomannan testing on BAL. To this end, we searched for studies on this subject. The galactomannan test results in an 'optical density index' (ODI), not a yes or no answer. The studies differed with respect to the cut‐off value above which a result was considered positive. Most considered a result above an ODI of 0.5 or 1.0 as positive. 
