Speech therapy for children with dysarthria ac quired before three years of age 
The review question 
This review aimed to investigate if therapy is generally effective for children with dysarthria acquired early in life, and if certain types of therapy may be better than others. 
Background 
Dysarthria is a speech disorder linked to difficulties controlling the muscles needed for speaking. Children with dysarthria often have shallow, irregular breathing which creates difficulties in generating sufficient breath to support speech. They have low pitched, breathy or harsh voices, nasalised speech and very poor pronunciation. Together, these difficulties make the children's speech difficult to understand. Dysarthria is caused by neurological impairment and can arise early in children's lives, from neurological damage sustained before, during or after birth, such as in cerebral palsy, or in early childhood through traumatic brain injury or neurological disease. Communication difficulties have a profound impact on children’s development. They reduce the quality of life of children with cerebral palsy and place children at risk of social exclusion, educational failure and later unemployment. Speech and language therapy aims to help children to control the movements for breathing and speech and so become more intelligible. 
Study characteristics 
We found no randomised controlled trials or controlled group studies which investigate the effects of speech and language therapy to improve the speech of children with dysarthria acquired below three years of age. 
Key results 
Small, observational studies have suggested that, for some children, therapy might have been associated with positive changes in intelligibility and clarity of voice. Rigorous research, using randomised controlled trials, is needed to evaluate if therapy can help children to increase the intelligibility of their speech and if enhanced intelligibility increases children's participation in social and educational activities and their quality of life. 
