Periodic measurement of the containment volume of the stomach during tube feeding
Review question 
Is it necessary to measure the containment volume of the stomach periodically during tube feeding? If so, what is the best way to monitor the volume? How frequently does the monitoring need to be? How large would a volume be regarded as safe? 
Background 
People with acute illnesses may not be able to consume food due to several reasons (e.g. unconsciousness, need for mechanical ventilation). To maintain sufficient levels of energy and nutrients for this population, tube feeding, that is, administering liquidized dense nutrients through a flexible tube that reaches the stomach via the nose, is commonly used. Tube feeding is currently recommended as a first‐line treatment for critically ill people with acute illnesses because such a technique can provide non‐nutritional (e.g. protecting the immune system against suppression due to acute disease) as well as nutritional benefits. 
However, people with acute illnesses often have a dysfunction of the stomach and intestines, and thus are unable to empty stomach contents. When increasing amounts of liquid nutrients are fed into the stomach via a tube, it can cause reflux (where contents travel back up the food pipe) or vomiting and may lead to aspiration pneumonia (when contents are breathed into the lungs or airways leading to the lungs). 
One method to avoid these complications of tube feeding is to periodically monitor the gastric residual volume (GRV), which is the amount of liquid contents drained from the stomach. The speed of tube feeding can then be adjusted according to the volume. 
Although monitoring of GRV may minimize the complications of tube feeding, and this technique has been recommended in many intensive care units (ICUs) for decades, we lack sufficient data to support a universal approach. Some research findings show that monitoring of GRV had no effects on tube‐feeding complications; moreover, the technique was found to reduce the amount of nutrients delivered, thereby affecting the overall treatment goals of tube feeding. 
We designed this review in the hope of answering the following questions. Is monitoring of GRV effective and safe? What is the best way to monitor GRV (how often should GRV be measured per day; how large a threshold should be set for GRV)? 
Key findings 
We included evidence published up to 3 May 2021. We included findings from eight studies involving 1585 adults, with most being men (1019 men versus 506 women) with average ages 60 to 69 years. All studies were conducted in the ICU settings, and many people were severely ill and required mechanical ventilation and tube feeding for more than 48 hours. The duration of the studies ranged from three to 90 days. 
Two studies (417 participants) compared less‐frequent GRV monitoring with a more‐frequent regimen. Two studies (500 participants) compared no GRV monitoring with frequent monitoring. One trial (329 participants) assessed the effects of GRV threshold by comparing a higher threshold at the time of aspiration against a lower threshold. Two studies (140 participants) compared the technique of returning versus discarding the aspirated/drained GRV. 
We found that the evidence is uncertain about GRV monitoring (less frequent versus more frequent; no monitoring versus frequent monitoring) on mortality, pneumonia, vomiting, and length of hospital stay. 
Reliability of the evidence 
Five of the eight included studies assessed mortality as an outcome measure. Most studies were poorly conducted with sparse data, which made interpretation difficult. Thus, the overall reliability of the included evidence for our review outcomes was very low, and our findings should be treated with caution. 
