Effect of partograph use on outcomes for women in spontaneous labour at term
What is the issue? 
Does the use of the partograph during spontaneous labour at term improve the health outcomes for women and babies? Do different partograph designs make any difference to the health outcomes for women and babies? 
Why is this important? 
A partograph is usually a pre‐printed form, the aim of which is to provide a pictorial overview of labour progress and to alert health professionals to any problems with the mother or baby. It has been unclear whether a partograph should be used and, if so, which design of partograph is better for women and babies. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in August 2017 and have now included 11 studies involving 9475 women. Three studies looked at using a partograph versus no partograph, seven studies looked at different partograph designs, and one study looked at using a partograph versus a new labour scale. 
Partograph versus no partograph (3 studies, 1703 women) 
It is uncertain whether using a partograph has any effect on the number of women having a caesarean section or babies born with low Apgar scores (a score which measures the physical condition of the newborn, with a low score indicating poor condition) because the quality of evidence is very low. Using a partograph may make little or no difference to length of labour (low‐quality evidence), or the number of women who receive oxytocin to speed up their labour (moderate‐quality evidence). 
Partograph with different placement of action lines (4 trials, 5051 women) 
When compared to a four‐hour action line, women in the two‐hour action line group were more likely to have their labour speeded up using oxytocin. There was no clear difference between women in the two‐ and four‐hour action line groups in having caesarean sections, the lengths of first stage of labour, maternal experiences of childbirth, or low Apgar scores. 
When we compared a two‐hour action line with a three‐hour action line, fewer women reported negative childbirth experiences in the two‐hour action line group. When we compared the three‐ and four‐hour action line groups, the caesarean section rate was higher in the three‐hour action line group. There were no clear differences between the two‐, three‐, or four‐hour action line groups in any of the other outcomes measured. 
Partograph with alert line only versus partograph with alert and action line (1 trial, 694 women) 
The caesarean section rate was lower in the alert line only group. There were no clear differences between groups for oxytocin augmentation, low Apgar score, instrumental vaginal birth, and perinatal death. 
Partograph with latent phase versus partograph without latent phase (1 trial, 743 women) 
When we compared a partograph with the latent phase (including early stages of labour) and one without the latent phase, the caesarean section and oxytocin augmentation rates were higher in the partograph with a latent phase. There were no clear differences between groups for oxytocin augmentation, and Apgar score less than 7 at 5 minutes. 
Partograph with two‐hour action line versus partograph with stepped dystocia line (1 trial, 99 women) 
When we compared a partograph with a two‐hour action line and a stepped dystocia line, fewer women received oxytocin augmentation in the dystocia line group. We did not observe any clear differences in any of the other primary outcomes in this comparison. 
Partograph versus labour scale (1 trial, 122 women) 
The labour scale compared with the partograph resulted in fewer women receiving oxytocin augmentation, but did not produce any clear difference for any of the other primary outcomes. 
