Oral versus intravenous chemotherapy for colorectal cancer
Background 
Intravenous (IV) fluoropyrimidines are an essential part of chemotherapy treatment for colorectal cancer (CRC). Patients prefer tablets as long as they work as well and are as safe as IV treatment, because they are easier to take and are more convenient. 
Review question 
We compared the effects of oral and IV fluoropyrimidine chemotherapy in patients with CRC who were treated with the aim of cure, or who were treated with palliative chemotherapy because the cancer could not be removed by surgery or was metastatic (it had spread from the place where it originated to other places in the body). 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to June 2016. We identified 44 randomised controlled trials involving 23,150 patients which compared oral and IV fluoropyrimidines. All studies included both male and female patients, and no studies included individuals younger than 18 years of age. 
Key results 
Among patients with CRC who were treated with the aim of cure, disease‐free survival (DFS) and overall survival (OS) did not differ between those who received oral versus IV treatment. In terms of severe side effects, patients who received oral treatment and those who received IV treatment had a similar risk of diarrhoea. Patients who received oral treatment were more likely to develop hand and foot rash but were less likely to have lowered white cell counts (neutropenia) than patients who received IV treatment. 
In patients with CRC whose cancer was treated with palliative chemotherapy, overall, those who received oral treatment had worse progression‐free survival (PFS) than those who received IV treatment. Use of two formulations of oral therapy (UFT or Ftorafur, and eniluracil with oral 5‐fluorouracil (5‐FU)) led to worse PFS in patients who received oral compared with IV treatment. Use of three other formulations of oral therapy (capecitabine, S‐1, and doxifluridine) led to similar PFS in patients who received oral compared with IV treatment. OS did not differ between patients treated with oral versus IV fluoropyrimidines. In terms of severe side effects, patients who received oral treatment were more likely to develop diarrhoea and hand and foot rash but were less likely to have lowered white cell counts than those who received IV treatment. 
