Local antibiotics or antibiotics that target the whole body: which works better to treat chronic suppurative otitis media (persistent or recurring ear infection with discharge)? 
Why is this question important? 
Chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM), also known as chronic otitis media (COM), is an inflammation and infection of the middle ear that lasts for two weeks or more. People with CSOM usually experience recurrent or persistent discharge – fluid that leaks out from a hole or tear in the eardrum – and hearing loss. 
Antibiotics (medicines that fight bacterial infections) are the most common treatment for CSOM. Antibiotics can: 
‐ be applied to part of the body (locally) in the form of drops, sprays, ointments or creams (topical antibiotics); or‐ treat the whole body (systemic antibiotics) when injected, or taken orally (by mouth). 
To find out whether topical or systemic antibiotics are better for treating CSOM, and whether they have different adverse (unwanted) effects, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
First, we searched the medical literature for studies that followed adults or children with CSOM for at least one week and compared: 
‐ the topical and systemic forms of the same antibiotic; or‐ a topical antibiotic against a different, systemic antibiotic. 
We then compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What did we find? 
We found six studies that involved a total of 445 people. People were treated with antibiotics for between five days and two weeks, and were followed for up to 21 days. Studies were conducted in Spain (three studies), Italy (two studies) and Hong Kong (one study). Three studies provided information about how they were funded or who supplied medicines: one study received funding from a university, and medicines were provided by pharmaceutical companies in two studies. 
Studies compared:
‐ quinolone ear drops against oral quinolone (four studies);‐ quinolone ear drops against injected aminoglycosides (one study);‐ ofloxacin ear drops against oral amoxicillin‐clavulanic acid (one study). 
Quinolone ear drops compared to quinolone taken orally 
Compared to oral quinolone, quinolone ear drops may slightly increase the chances of ear discharge resolving after one to two weeks. We do not know if there is a difference between the two treatments for: 
‐ hearing;‐ ear pain;‐ serious complications such as facial palsy (weakness of the muscles in the face);‐ meningitis (an inflammation of fluid and membranes in the brain); or‐ ototoxicity (when a person develops hearing or balance problems due to a medicine). 
This is because either no studies reported information about these effects, or we have too little confidence in the evidence available. 
