Personally tailored activities for people with dementia living in their own homes
Background 
People with dementia living in their own homes often have too little to do. If a person with dementia has the chance to take part in activities which match his or her personal interests and preferences, this may lead to a better quality of life, reduce challenging behaviour such as restlessness or aggression, and have other positive effects. 
Purpose of this review 
We investigated the effects of offering people with dementia who were living in their own homes activities tailored to their personal interests. 
Studies included in the review 
In September 2019 we searched for trials in which people with dementia living in their own homes were offered activities based on their individual interests, or family caregivers were offered such activities (an intervention group) compared with other people with dementia living in their own homes who were not offered these activities or whose family caregivers were not trained in delivering such activities (a control group). 
We found five studies including 262 people with dementia living in their own homes. The mean age of the study participants ranged from 71 to 83 years. All studies were randomised controlled trials, that is participants were assigned at random to either the intervention or control group. In one study the participants in the study groups switched after a specific time to the other group (i.e. the activity programme was offered to the participants in the control group, and the participants of the intervention group did not receive the activity programme any more). The participants had mild to moderate dementia, and the studies lasted from two weeks to four months. 
In four studies, the family caregivers were trained to deliver the activities based on an individual care plan, and in one study the activities were offered directly to the participants. The activities offered in the studies did not vary a lot. In two studies, the control group received some information about dementia care via telephone or in personal meetings with an expert, and in three studies the control group received only the usual care delivered in their homes. The quality of the trials and how well they were reported varied, which affected our confidence in the results. 
Key findings 
Offering personally tailored activities may improve challenging behaviour and slightly improve quality of life of people with dementia living in their own homes, but may have little or no effect on depression, affect, passivity, and engagement (being involved in what is happening around them) of people with dementia. Personally tailored activities may slightly improve caregivers' distress, but may have little or no effect on caregiver burden, quality of life, and depression. No study looked for harmful effects and no study described that any harmful effects occurred. 
Conclusions 
We concluded that offering activity sessions to people with mild to moderate dementia living in their own homes may help to manage challenging behaviour and may slightly improve their quality of life. 
