Targeted treatment of non‐small cell lung cancer with an anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) gene mutation 
Background 
The most common type of lung cancer is non‐small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). About 5% of NSCLC will be driven by a gene mutation known as anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK). Targeted treatments for those with advanced (not curable) ALK‐mutated NSCLC cancer have been developed and found to be more effective than chemotherapy. The first ALK inhibitor to be developed was crizotinib. Newer ALK‐targeted drugs have also been developed and include ceritinib, alectinib, brigatinib, ensartinib, and lorlatinib. In this review we looked at treatments that target ALK‐mutated NSCLC to find out how well they work. 
Objectives  
The primary objective of this review was to find out whether people with ALK‐mutated NSCLC given treatments targeted towards ALK live longer without recurrence and have fewer side effects than those treated with chemotherapy. We also planned to evaluate whether newer ALK‐targeted drugs achieve this better than crizotinib.  
Study characteristics 
We searched the main medical databases and records of conferences up to 7 January 2021. We found 11 studies (2874 participants): six studies compared an ALK‐targeted drug to chemotherapy, and five studies compared a newer ALK‐targeted drug to crizotinib. The studies were conducted in people with advanced ALK‐mutated NSCLC using these drugs as their first or later treatment. A total of five different ALK inhibitors were used across studies: alectinib, brigatinib, ceritinib, crizotinib, and lorlatinib. 
Results 
People treated with ALK‐targeted drugs lived longer without their cancer growing than those on chemotherapy. These improvements were also seen in people with cancer that had spread to the brain. People receiving ALK‐targeted drugs lived longer overall, even when some had received chemotherapy first. ALK‐targeted drugs cause a similar number of side effects as chemotherapy. ALK‐targeted drugs caused more tumours to reduce in size and resulted in a longer time until worsening of symptoms when compared to chemotherapy.  
People treated with newer ALK‐targeted drugs lived longer without their cancer growing than those receiving crizotinib, including in people with cancer involving the brain. People treated with newer ALK‐targeted drugs as first treatment were likely to live longer overall with a similar number of overall side effects. Newer ALK‐targeted drugs caused more tumours to reduce in size when compared to crizotinib. 
