Balneotherapy for chronic venous insufficiency (CVI)
Background 
Chronic venous insufficiency is a disease caused by abnormal transport of blood into the veins of the lower limbs, which means the veins cannot pump enough blood back to the heart. This condition is defined by several signs, with gnarled and enlarged veins being the most common and venous ulcers being the most severe. There is a wide variety of management options or therapies for chronic venous insufficiency, ranging from surgery and medicine, to compression (applying force) and physical therapies. Balneotherapy is a possible way to deliver physical therapy for people with chronic venous insufficiency. Balneotherapy is a traditional medical technique that involves water and is usually practiced in spas. It consists of the immersion in mineral water or mud loaded with minerals. It may or may not include exercise. Alone or combined with usual care, balneotherapy may provide a significant improvement in the quality of life of people with chronic venous insufficiency when compared with usual care alone. 
Study characteristics 
We identified seven randomised controlled trials (studies in which the participants were divided between treatment groups through random method) (most recent search August 2018). Six studies compared balneotherapy versus no treatment, and one study compared balneotherapy versus a medicine called melilotus officinalis. The studies used different types of balneotherapy and different treatment times. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
For the balneotherapy versus no treatment comparison there probably is no improvement in favour of balneotherapy in disease severity signs and symptoms score (moderate‐certainty evidence). Balneotherapy probably improves health‐related quality of life and pain (moderate‐certainty evidence). There probably is no improvement in favour of balneotherapy for leg ulcers (moderate‐certainty evidence). There is no clear effect related to oedema (swelling caused when fluid leaks out of the body's tiny blood vessels) between balneotherapy and no treatment (very low‐certainty evidence). Balneotherapy probably reduces skin pigmentation changes (low‐certainty evidence). None of the studies reported any serious adverse events. There were fewer side effects (infection and blood clots in the legs) in people receiving balneotherapy compared to no treatment. 
When comparing balneotherapy with melilotus officinalis, there were insufficient data to detect clear differences between the two treatments for pain and oedema in the single small study. There were no data available for the other outcomes of interest such as disease severity signs and symptoms score, quality of life, leg ulcers and skin pigmentation. 
