Agitation in children after sevoflurane anaesthesia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence looking at how often children wake up agitated after a sevoflurane general anaesthetic compared with other general anaesthetics. We also reviewed evidence looking at the effects of other treatments (e.g. a medication given during the anaesthetic, the presence of a parent when a child wakes up) on how often children wake up agitated after receiving a sevoflurane anaesthetic. 
Background 
Sevoflurane is a commonly used anaesthetic gas for children because it can be breathed in by face mask and works very quickly in getting children off to sleep. Sevoflurane is given continuously during an operation to keep the child asleep, and it is turned off when it is time for the child to wake up. It is very common for children, especially preschool children, to wake up restless, agitated, delirious or thrashing around after receiving a sevoflurane anaesthetic. We call this "emergence agitation." It can occur even when no pain is present and usually resolves within 30 minutes of waking up. Children with emergence agitation may injure themselves, bump the operation wound and pull out drips or wound drains. Emergence agitation can be distressing for parents and caregivers. We wanted to discover whether the rate of emergence agitation is lowered when different anaesthetics are used. We also wanted to know whether treatments can be given to reduce the rate of emergence agitation when sevoflurane is used. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2013. We found a total of 158 studies involving 14,045 children. A total of 69 studies compared a sevoflurane anaesthetic with a different anaesthetic, and 100 studies looked at treatments to reduce the rate of emergence agitation with a sevoflurane anaesthetic. Most of these treatments were medications that were compared with a dummy treatment (placebo) or with no medication. We reran the search in April 2014 and will address identified studies of interest when we update the review. 
