Atherectomy for peripheral arterial disease
Background 
Peripheral arterial disease is a narrowing or blockage of the arteries in the legs. People with this condition can experience pain on walking, pain at rest, or leg ulceration due to poor blood supply. Treatment options are: surgery, using a blood vessel or graft to bypass the narrowed or blocked section of the artery; balloon angioplasty, when a deflated balloon is passed into the narrowing at the end of a wire, then blown up to stretch the artery; and stenting (used in addition to balloon angioplasty), which holds open the balloon‐stretched section for extra support. A final option, less commonly used, is a technique called atherectomy. This treatment cuts or grinds away the fatty deposition (atheroma) within the artery that is causing the narrowing or occlusion. 
Key results 
In this review, we compared atherectomy with the other treatment options described above. We also looked within the two groups to assess whether using drug‐releasing balloons or stents impacted on participants' outcomes. We identified seven studies with a total of 527 participants. 
Six trials compared atherectomy against balloon angioplasty (372 participants, 427 treated lesions). We found no clear difference between the procedures when examining artery patency at six and 12 months, risk of death, initial procedure failure rates, need to re‐treat the artery, risk of forming clots (embolisation), complication rates or risk of amputation. We found that atherectomy was associated with lower rates of emergency stenting during the procedure and lower balloon inflation pressures when compared with balloon angioplasty alone. We found no difference in results depending on whether the balloons were drug‐releasing or not. 
One study compared atherectomy against balloon angioplasty and primary stenting (155 participants and 155 treated lesions). This study did not report primary patency. We found no clear difference between the treatment arms in risk of death, complication rates, cardiovascular events and the need to re‐treat the artery. This study found no initial procedure failure events, 
We did not find any studies that compared bypass surgery against atherectomy.
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, our certainty in the evidence is very low, which means we do not have confidence that our results show the true effect of the treatments. We downgraded our certainty in the evidence because the studies were at high risk of bias (lack of blinding of participants or assessors, several outcomes were not reported and a number of the participants did not complete the studies); the trials were all small; and their results were inconsistent. 
