Cycling infrastructure (changes to the road environment) for reducing cycling injuries in cyclists 
Review question 
This review aimed to answer the question "what effect do different types of cycling infrastructure have on cycling injuries and collisions?". Cycling infrastructure involves changes which are made to the road design or management of the road for cyclists. We aimed to include studies which looked at the effects of three types of cycling infrastructure: 
1. that which aims to manage the shared use of the road space for both motor vehicles and cyclists, for example, cycle lanes and shared use of a bus lane; 
2. that which separates cycle traffic from motorised traffic and may include special routes just for cycle traffic, for example, cycle tracks and cycle paths. These may be shared with pedestrians; 
3. management of the roads to include separation of motor vehicle and cycle traffic (for example, traffic rules that ban certain types of traffic from making particular turns) and cycle turns at traffic signals. 
Comparisons were made with either routes or crossings that either did not have cycling infrastructure in place or had a different type of infrastructure. We were interested in studies with both adults and children. The primary outcome of interest was cycling injuries suffered as a result of a cycling collision. Secondary outcomes were collision rates for cyclists; and cycle counts, that is the number of cyclists using the infrastructure. 
Background 
Cycling infrastructure involves making changes to the road environment to provide special facilities for cyclists. These may include putting in cycle lanes or giving cyclists right of way at junctions, or separating cyclists from fast‐moving or high‐volume traffic. Speed limits may be introduced which means cyclists share the road with vehicles moving more slowly. This review is important because if we want to get more people cycling, we need to know whether cycling infrastructure helps to keep cyclists safe. 
Search date 
We searched world‐wide research literature up to March 2015.
Study characteristics 
The types of studies that could be included in this review are randomised controlled trials, cluster randomised controlled trials, controlled before‐after studies, and interrupted times series studies. We found 21 studies looking at the effects of 11 different types of cycling infrastructure. No studies reported self‐reported injuries or medically attended injuries. Fourteen studies reported police‐reported ‘cycle crashes’ or ‘accidents’ or ‘injury crashes’ and the other studies reported outcomes such as number of “cycle accidents” or “crashes involving cyclists”. Nine studies reported collisions by severity; seven studies reported on age of casualty; and two studies reported on sex. One study reported on the level of social deprivation. Cycle flow was collected in 14 studies. 
Key results 
Generally we found a lack of evidence that the types of cycling infrastructure we looked at affects injuries or collisions in cyclists. Cycle routes and networks do not seem to reduce the risk of collision. Speed limits of 20 mph, changing parts of the road network to some designs of roundabouts and changing busy parts of a cycle route may reduce the risk of collision. In terms of severity of injury, sex, age and level of social deprivation of the area, there is a lack of evidence to draw any conclusions concerning the effect of cycling infrastructure on cycling collisions. 
