Natalizumab for treatment of active Crohn's disease
Background 
Crohn's disease (CD) is a chronic inflammatory disease of the intestines. CD frequently occurs in the lower part of the small intestine, called the ileum, but it can affect any part of the digestive tract. Common symptoms include abdominal pain, often in the lower right area, and diarrhea. When people with CD are experiencing symptoms, the disease is called 'active'. When the symptoms stop, it is called 'remission'. Natalizumab and infliximab are biologic medications. These medications are directly infused into a vein (intravenous). Biologics suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation associated with CD. Biologics are often given to people with moderate to severe CD who are unable to achieve remission despite treatment with standard drugs. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a comprehensive literature review and identified five randomized controlled trials (an experiment in which participants are randomly assigned to receive two or more interventions and the results are compared) that involved a total of 1771 participants. Four studies (1692 participants) compared one, two or three intravenous infusions of natalizumab (300 mg or 3 mg/kg or 6mg/kg) to placebo (a sham infusion ‐ an infusion that was identical in appearance to natalizumab but did not contain any active medicine). These studies followed participants for 12 weeks. One study (79 participants) compared three intravenous infusions of natalizumab (300 mg) and infliximab (5 mg/kg) to infliximab and placebo. The participants in this study were unable to achieve remission despite treatment with the biologic drug infliximab. This study followed participants for 10 weeks. All of the studies were high quality. 
Key results 
Depending upon the study, intravenous infusions of natalizumab or placebo were administered at weeks zero, four and eight. One, two and three infusions of natalizumab were superior to placebo for induction of remission and clinical response (improvement in symptoms of active CD). The rates of side effects, study withdrawals due to side effects and serious side effects were similar across the natalizumab and placebo groups at 4, 8 and 12 weeks. Common side effects included headache, nausea, nasopharyngitis (common cold), abdominal pain, fatigue, vomiting and worsening of Crohn's disease. 
The study comparing combination therapy with natalizumab and infliximab to infliximab and placebo demonstrated similar remission rates at 10 weeks. The rates of side effects, withdrawals due to side effects and serious side effects were similar across groups at 10 weeks. Common adverse events included headache, worsening of Crohn's disease, nausea, and nasopharyngitis. 
The included trials were not designed to detect serious side effects that occur infrequently. Natalizumab is associated with the development of progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML) resulting in some patient deaths. PML is a serious infection of the nervous system that can often be fatal. There are currently no tests which can reliably predict those at risk of developing PML. 
Quality of evidence 
Overall, the quality of evidence for each outcome was generally high.
Conclusions 
High quality data suggest that natalizumab is effective for induction of clinical remission and response in some patients with moderately to severely active Crohn's disease. Due to the association with PML, and the availability of alternative agents that are not associated with PML, natalizumab is not likely to be used in patients who fail currently available medical therapy for Crohn's disease. The use of natalizumab in select patients (e.g. people allergic to different biologics) needs to be carefully considered against the potential risk of developing PML. Futher studies of natalizumab are not likely to be done. 
