Different methods of ventilation (controlling pressure vs volume) for people with acute respiratory failure due to lung injury 
Review question 
We reviewed available evidence for the safety and efficacy of controlling pressure versus controlling volume of air delivered during mechanical ventilation in critically ill adults with acute respiratory failure due to lung injury. We found three relevant studies. 
Background 
Acute respiratory failure due to acute lung injury (ALI) and acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a common reason for admission to intensive care units (ICUs) worldwide. A third to half of people with ALI/ARDS die in the ICU, in hospital or during follow‐up. People with ALI/ARDS are put on ventilator machines to give the lungs time to recover. However, lung damage can worsen if the volume of air delivered by these machines is too large, or if the pressure reached in the lungs during ventilation is too high. 
We wanted to know whether controlling pressure in the lung during ventilation by varying the volume of air delivered (pressure‐controlled ventilation, or PCV) was better than allowing varying lung pressures when a fixed volume of air is delivered (volume‐controlled ventilation, or VCV). 
Study characteristics 
The three randomized trials compared PCV versus VCV in a total of 1089 adults with ALI/ARDS from 43 ICUs in five high‐income countries. None of the trials were industry‐funded. The evidence is current to October 2014. 
Key results 
We could not be sure whether the proportions of patients who died in hospital were very different between those treated with PCV and with VCV. For every 1000 persons treated with VCV, 636 deaths were reported. On the basis of our results, we could expect to see between 210 fewer deaths and 13 more deaths with PCV. We found that effects on mortality in the ICU and on mortality at 28 days were similarly uncertain. Our results include the possibility that VCV or PCV could be better for reducing the duration of ventilation or the development of traumatic lung damage caused by ventilation (barotrauma). None of the studies provided reliable information regarding to what extent failure of other organs would be impacted by the type of ventilation, nor did they provide information on differences in infection risk or quality of life following discharge from intensive care. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall evidence for mortality was of moderate quality. For outcomes such as duration of ventilation, barotrauma and organ failure, evidence was limited by the small numbers studied, the different methods used in the studies or differences in reporting of results, which made interpretation difficult. 
