What are the benefits and risks of a single injection of ibuprofen (an anti‐inflammation medicine) for relieving short‐term pain after surgery in adults?  
Key messages 
‐ There is not enough evidence to determine whether intravenous (injection into a vein) ibuprofen is an effective treatment for adults with pain after surgery or if it can harm them.  
‐ It would be beneficial if future studies on this topic were well‐designed with a large number of patients to determine if ibuprofen is an effective treatment for the management of pain after surgery. 
‐ More evidence is required to establish if ibuprofen causes serious unwanted effects.
Treating short‐term pain after surgery 
Pain is common in the short term (within 6 hours) after surgery (postoperative pain). 
Non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs, aspirin‐like drugs) are often delivered along with opioids (such as morphine) to treat this type of pain. However, NSAIDs can have side effects. NSAIDS (such as ibuprofen) may result in bleeding (e.g. at the site of an incision or wound) and may result in injury to the kidneys and gut.  
Patients need more and better treatment options to help manage short‐term pain after surgery. There is a lot of concern about using opioids to treat short‐term pain because of the risk that patients can develop unpleasant side effects or opioid over‐use disorder. It is therefore important to weigh the benefits and risks of NSAIDs when considering using them to reduce pain shortly after surgery. 
What did we want to find out? 
Ibuprofen is a NSAID that can be delivered intravenously. We wanted to know if intravenous ibuprofen (delivered by injection or drip) is a helpful treatment option to manage moderate‐to‐severe pain when patients cannot take medicines by mouth.  
What did we do? 
To make the comparison fair, patients in the studies must all have had the same random chance (like the flip of a coin) to receive the ibuprofen or the other treatment.  
We searched the medical literature (clinical studies) up to June 2021, where intravenous ibuprofen was used to treat pain after surgery in adults (aged over 18) and compared against: 
‐ a placebo (a control treatment, such as a bag of saline administered into a vein); or 
‐ another medicine.
What did we find? 
We found only one study which was suitable to include in our review. The study looked at the management of pain after bunionectomy. Bunionectomy is a surgery to remove a bunion at the base of the big toe. This study evaluated 201 people, mostly females. The study compared intravenous ibuprofen to: 
‐ a placebo; or
‐ another medicine, acetaminophen (paracetamol).
We were most interested in learning how many people had their pain reduced by 50% (half) or more within 4 or 6 hours of surgery.  
Pain reduction 
The study showed that:
‐ more people who received ibuprofen had their pain reduced by 50% (half) or more within 4 or 6 hours of surgery as compared to those who received placebo; and  
‐ there was little to no difference when ibuprofen was compared to another medicine, acetaminophen, i.e. the numbers of people with pain reduced by 50% (half) or more within 4 or 6 hours of surgery  
Need for extra pain medicines (rescue medication) 
Rescue medicine is an extra pain medication if the study medication is not treating the patient's pain well enough. The time (in minutes) to needing rescue medication was longer (delayed) with use of ibuprofen or acetaminophen than for those who received placebo.  
Adverse events 
There was not enough information in this study to assess side effects, but the rate at which they occurred appeared to be similar among all treatments. Very few patients dropped out because of side effects. This is usually the case in studies where patients are only in a study for a short period of time.  
