Interventions for visual field defects in people with stroke
Review question 
Are there effective treatments for people who have visual field defects after stroke?
Background 
Stroke can cause some people (20% to 57% of people with stroke) to lose the ability to see the entire space in front of them ‐ often one complete half of the normal field of vision is lost. These problems with seeing are called visual field defects. Visual field defects can make it difficult for people to function normally ‐ especially moving about freely, avoiding obstacles, reading, driving, and taking part in rehabilitation for other stroke‐related problems. 
We wanted to see whether treatments for visual field defects could improve stroke survivors' abilities in activities of daily living (our primary outcome of interest), or other (secondary) outcomes. Secondary outcomes that we were interested in included the size of the visual field defect, independence (in functional abilities), quality of life, ability to scan/search for objects, reading ability, balance and falls, depression and anxiety, and adverse events. 
Study characteristics 
We included 20 studies (involving 547 stroke participants) that investigated the effect of treatments for visual field defects. However, only 10 of these studies compared the effect of a particular treatment with no treatment. Three of these studies investigated a type of eye movement training designed to improve the lost visual field (a 'restitutive' intervention). Four of the included studies investigated the effect of scanning training, which involves training people to 'scan' across the space in front of them and into the 'lost' visual field, in order to better cope with their lost vision (a 'compensatory' intervention). Three of the included studies investigated the effect of wearing a special prism on a pair of glasses, which increases the amount a person can see on their affected side (a 'substitutive' intervention). One of the studies investigated the effect of specialised assessment by an orthoptist (a hospital‐based vision specialist), compared to standard care. 
Search date 
We searched for studies up to May 2018.
Key results 
Only two studies presented data relating to how treatment can improve stroke survivors' abilities in activities of daily living, and there was a lack of consistency across studies that limited our ability to draw clear conclusions. There was insufficient evidence to draw any conclusions about the effectiveness of restitutive interventions as compared to control. There was low or very low‐quality evidence that scanning training may help improve quality of life, but may have no effect on other outcomes (including adverse events). There was low or very‐low quality evidence that prisms may have an effect on ability to scan (look) for objects, but may cause a range of minor adverse events (particularly headache) and may have no effect on other outcomes. Limitations with the evidence meant that we could not draw any conclusions about the benefits of assessment interventions. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was low to very low, and in general was insufficient to reach conclusions about the effects of interventions for people with visual field defects. 
