Reduced breast density following endocrine therapy as an indicator of breast cancer risk 
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer is a common cancer and cause of death in women worldwide. Treatment options for breast cancer include endocrine therapy. Endocrine therapy can also be used to prevent breast cancer for women who have not been diagnosed with breast cancer. It would help doctors and their patients to understand whether some patients are likely to have greater benefit from endocrine therapy than others. The structure of the breast is likely to change following endocrine therapy. These structural changes are seen when women have a mammogram (breast x‐ray). They appear as a decrease in the area of white tissue (breast density) on the mammogram. We wanted to find out whether reductions in breast density after endocrine therapy can help to determine how well endocrine therapy works. 
Review question 
We searched for previously published studies. We assessed whether a reduction in breast density after receiving endocrine therapy was associated with better outcomes. For women without breast cancer, this focused on whether those with decreased breast density were less likely to develop breast cancer. For women with breast cancer, this included whether those with greater decreases in breast density were less likely to die from breast cancer. 
Study characteristics 
We performed the search on 3 August 2020. We included studies of adult women with breast cancer if the women's breast cancer had been diagnosed at an early stage and could be treated with endocrine therapy (hormone receptor‐positive breast cancer). We included drugs often used in practice (tamoxifen and aromatase inhibitors). We found a wide variety of studies. The studies varied in terms of how they had been planned and the characteristics of the women included in the studies, as well as in how breast density change was measured. 
Key results 
Most studies reported a reduced risk of breast cancer after endocrine therapy for women who had a breast density reduction compared with women who did not have a reduction. There was slightly stronger evidence for the drug tamoxifen. 
• Two studies reported on breast density reduction following tamoxifen and risk of breast cancer death. The findings were based on 172 women who died from breast cancer. Overall, the certainty of the evidence was low. 
