Interventions to improve hearing aid use in adult auditory rehabilitation
Review question 
We wanted to know if any interventions help people to wear their hearing aids more. We measured effects over the short term (less than 12 weeks), medium term (from 12 to 52 weeks) and long term (one year plus). This is an update of a review first published in The Cochrane Library in 2014. 
Background 
Hearing loss is very common. People who get hearing loss as adults are often offered a hearing aid(s). However, up to 40% of people fitted with a hearing aid choose not to use it. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is up to date as of June 2016. We found 37 studies involving a total of 4129 people. Most of the people in the studies were aged over 65. There was a mix of new and experienced hearing aid users. Seven studies funded by the United States Veterans Association dominate the evidence. The 1297 people in these studies were serving in the military or military veterans. All but two of the other studies included fewer than 100 people in each study. 
Results 
Thirty‐three of the 37 studies looked at ways to help someone to manage their hearing loss and hearing aid(s) better by giving information, practice and experience at listening/communicating or by asking people to practise tasks at home. These are forms of self‐management support. Most of these studies also changed how the self‐management support was provided, for example by changing the number of appointment sessions or using telephone or email follow‐up. 
Six studies looked at the effect of just changing how the service was delivered. No studies looked at the effect of using guidelines or standards, computerised medical record systems, community resources or changing the health system. 
We found no evidence that the interventions helped people to wear their hearing aids for more hours per day over the short, medium or long term. One study that used interactive videos to give information after hearing aid fitting encouraged more people to wear their hearing aids. 
We found no evidence of adverse effects of any of the interventions, but it was rare for studies to look for adverse effects. 
Giving self‐management support meant that people reported less hearing handicap and improved verbal communication over the short term. When this was combined with changing how the support was delivered people also reported slightly more hearing aid benefit over the long term. 
Only six studies (287 people) looked at how people were doing after a year or more.
Conclusions 
Complex interventions that deliver self‐management support in different ways improve some outcomes for some people with hearing loss who use hearing aids. We found no interventions that increased self‐reported daily hours of hearing aid use. Few studies measured how many people use hearing aids compared to how many are fitted (adherence). Many things that might increase daily hours of hearing aid use or encourage more people to wear the hearing aids they have been fitted with have not been tested. It was difficult to combine data across different studies because many outcome measures were used and results were not always fully reported. In future it would be helpful if researchers: 
