Does surgical removal of fibroids improve fertility outcomes?
Review question 
Cochrane authors reviewed the evidence about the effect on fertility with the surgical removal of fibroids in infertile women. 
Background 
Fibroids are the most common benign tumours of the female genital tract and commonly affect women of reproductive age. Fibroids occur in different parts of the womb and can vary in size and shape. Fibroids can lead to a variety of symptoms including heavy periods, pain, difficulty to conceive, or problems with pregnancy such as miscarriage and premature labour. In women wishing to preserve their fertility, it is possible to remove the fibroid while preserving the womb, an operation known as myomectomy. This procedure can be performed by laparotomy (open abdominal surgery), laparoscopic surgery (a key‐hole through the abdomen) or hysteroscopic surgery (a key‐hole through the neck of the womb) depending on the site and size of the fibroid. This review aimed to answer two questions. Firstly, whether myomectomy led to an improvement in fertility; and secondly, if the procedure is beneficial, what is the ideal surgical approach? 
Study characteristics 
This review included four studies with 442 participants. One study compared myomectomy to no treatment. The remaining three studies compared different surgical methods of performing a myomectomy. The evidence is current to February 2019. 
Key results 
One study examined the effect of myomectomy compared to no treatment. Results found insufficient evidence to determine a difference between treatment options for clinical pregnancy rate or miscarriage rate. This study did not report on live birth, preterm delivery, ongoing pregnancy or caesarean section rate. Regarding the best surgical approach, three studies were identified. Two studies compared myomectomy by mini‐laparotomy or laparotomy to laparoscopic myomectomy and found insufficient evidence to determine a difference for live birth, preterm delivery, clinical pregnancy, miscarriage, caesarean section and ongoing pregnancy rate. The third study compared use of different surgical equipment during hysteroscopic myomectomy and found insufficient evidence to determine a difference for live birth/ongoing pregnancy rate, clinical pregnancy rate and miscarriage rate. This study did not report on caesarean section or preterm delivery rate. It is clear that more studies are needed before a consensus can be reached on the role of myomectomy for infertility. 
Quality of evidence 
The evidence was very low quality. There are some concerns regarding how the data were analysed and therefore the evidence cannot be considered to be conclusive until further studies are available. 
