Are antipsychotic medicines safe and effective for treating people who have schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms? 
Key messages 
‐ We could not answer whether antipsychotic medicines are safe and effective for schizophrenia spectrum disorders with catatonic symptoms because we found only one study including a small number of people and a brief duration of treatment, leaving us with very low confidence in the results.  
‐ We did find that in the only included study both an antipsychotic medicine (risperidone) and electroconvulsive therapy may improve catatonic and positive symptoms of psychosis, but that electroconvulsive therapy may be better for the first three weeks in people who did not first respond to the medicine lorazepam. We found no unusual or dangerous side effects with either treatment.  
‐ Larger, well‐designed studies are needed to give better estimates of the benefits and potential harms of antipsychotics compared with other treatments in people with symptoms of catatonia in schizophrenia spectrum disorders. 
What are schizophrenia spectrum disorders and catatonic symptoms? 
Schizophrenia and related spectrum disorders are serious mental disorders that present with a wide range of psychotic symptoms such as false ideas, hearing voices, and trouble thinking. Some people also have catatonic symptoms such as the inability to move or speak or repetitive movements over which they have little control. People with catatonic symptoms may be unable to interact or communicate with others.  
How are schizophrenia spectrum disorders and catatonic symptoms treated? 
Antipsychotic medicines are the standard treatment that improve many of the psychotic symptoms of schizophrenia spectrum disorders (such as false ideas or hearing voices), but are less effective for other symptoms (such as social withdrawal or problems with paying attention). Some evidence suggests that antipsychotic medicines may not be as effective in people with schizophrenia spectrum disorders who also have catatonic symptoms. Catatonic symptoms may also put such people at risk for side effects of antipsychotic medicines. Catatonic symptoms themselves are usually treated with sedating medicines or electroconvulsive therapy (a treatment in which brief seizures are caused by applying an electrical stimulus through electrodes on the head).  
