Electromagnetic fields for the treatment of osteoarthritis
Review question 
We conducted a review of the effect of electromagnetic fields on osteoarthritis. We found nine studies with 636 people. 
Background: what is osteoarthritis and what are electromagnetic fields? 
Osteoarthritis is the most common form of arthritis that can affect the hands, hips, shoulders and knees. In osteoarthritis, the cartilage that protects the ends of the bones breaks down and causes pain and swelling. 
An electromagnetic field is the invisible force that attracts things to magnets. This invisible attraction can be created using an electrical current that may affect the cartilage around the joints. In osteoarthritis, electromagnetic fields are a kind of therapy using electrical currents applied to the skin around the joints. Small machines or mats can be used to deliver electromagnetic fields to the whole body or to certain joints. A doctor or physiotherapist can perform the therapy and some machines can be used at home. 
Study characteristics 
After searching for all relevant studies up to October 2013, we found nine studies that reviewed the effect of electromagnetic field treatment compared to a sham or fake treatment in 636 adults with osteoarthritis for a duration of 4 to 26 weeks. 
Key results 
Pain (on a 0 to 100 scale; higher scores mean worse or more severe pain) 
‐ Electromagnetic fields probably relieve pain in osteoarthritis.
‐ People who received electromagnetic field treatment experienced pain relief of 15 points more compared with people who received fake treatment (15% improvement). 
‐ People who received electromagnetic field treatment rated their pain to be 26 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100. 
‐ People who received fake treatment rated their pain to be 11 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100. 
Physical function 
‐ Electromagnetic fields may improve physical function but this may have happened by chance. 
Overall health and well‐being 
‐ Electromagnetic fields probably make no difference to overall health and well‐being.
Side effects 
‐ Electromagnetic fields probably make no difference to whether people have side effects or stop taking the treatment because of side effects, but this may have happened by chance. 
