Dietary supplements for established atopic eczema in adults and children
Eczema is a skin condition characterised by an itchy, red rash, which affects 5% to 20% of people worldwide. There is no cure, but many treatments can help improve the skin's condition, making life easier. In those for whom these treatments do not work well or who fear their long‐term effects, there is often a belief that either something in their diet, or something missing in their diet, is making their eczema worse. 
This review looked at the following dietary supplements (products which add ingredients to a diet): fish oil, zinc, selenium, vitamin D, vitamin E, pyridoxine (vitamin B6), sea buckthorn oil, hempseed oil, and sunflower oil.  
Three commonly used dietary supplements (evening primrose oil, borage oil, and probiotics) are currently the subject of other Cochrane reviews (Boehm 2003; Boyle 2008). 
We looked for trials comparing supplements with placebo (dummy). We included 11 randomised controlled trials (596 participants) when it was clear that the children or adults taking part had atopic eczema. In reviewing the trials, the main outcomes we looked for were evidence of improvement in the symptoms of eczema, such as itching or loss of sleep, in the short‐term (i.e. six weeks). In the longer term, we wanted to see evidence of a reduced need for treatment for the eczema or a reduction in the number of flares. We also looked for evidence of any general improvement in the eczema and in individual symptoms.  
Overall, we found no convincing evidence that taking supplements improved the eczema of those involved. In general, studies were small with low numbers of participants and of poor quality in terms of the way they were run. Two trials of fish oil did find slight improvement for the participants in terms of the degree of itchiness and quality of life. However, these trials had small numbers, which means they had little chance of finding real differences if they did exist. That is why larger trials are needed before any recommendations can be made. We found no evidence of adverse (harmful) effects in those who took part in the trials. People sometimes think that supplements can at least do no harm; however, high doses of vitamin D, for example, can cause serious medical problems, and the safety of dietary supplements should not be assumed. The cost of supplements can also mount up.  
