Tamponade in surgery for retinal detachment associated with proliferative vitreoretinopathy
What is the aim of this review?The aim of this Cochrane Review was to determine if substances called tamponade agents used to treat retinal detachment (RD) associated with proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR) are safe and effective. PVR refers to the growth and scarring of the retina. 
Key messages 
The choice of a tamponade agent should be individualized for each patient. The use of either C3F8 (one type of gas) or standard silicone oil appears reasonable. Heavy silicone oil, which is not available for routine clinical use in the USA, has no advantage or benefit over standard silicone oil. 
What was studied in this review?Retina is the innermost light‐sensing tissue in the back of the eye (similar to the film within a camera), and its normal function depends on its attachment to the underlying layer. RD is a disorder of the eye in which the retina physically separates from the underlying layer of tissue. The macula is the centermost part of the retina and is responsible for the central, high‐resolution, color vision. Patients with RD that involves the macular typically have more severe visual loss than patients without associated macular detachment. RD is generally treated with surgery, but surgery is not always successful. In some patients, surgery is initially successful but RD may recur months or years later. Most recurrent RDs, and some primary RDs, are associated with growth and scarring of the retina called proliferative vitreoretinopathy (PVR). The only proven therapy for RD with PVR is further surgery, where the membranes are removed from the surface of the retina and tamponade agents injected into the eye to hold the newly attached retina in place. The major tamponade agents that are available today are various gases and silicone oils. It is unknown whether these tamponade agents are effective and safe.What are the main results of the review?We found four randomized controlled trials with a total of 601 participants that compared various tamponade agents. All participants underwent surgery to treat RD associated with PVR. 
