Best position for newborns who need assisted ventilation
Review question: For newborn infants who need assisted ventilation, can changing the infant's body position improve breathing or other clinical outcomes including survival? 
Background: Newborns admitted to an intensive care unit often need help breathing (mechanical ventilation). This support is generally provided by a device placed inside the newborn's nose or mouth (which sometimes reaches the trachea), through which different pressures and concentrations of oxygen are sent.  The usual practice is to position the newborn in supine (face‐up) position during ventilation. However, it is not certain whether other positions, for example, “face‐down” (prone position), could be more advantageous for breathing or other pursuits, including survival. This is an update of previously published reviews. 
Search date: The evidence is up to date as of August 2016. 
Study characteristics: We included in this review 19 trials involving 516 participants. Comparisons included supine position versus prone and different lateral positions (right, left, alternant or quarter for prone). The outcome most often reported in these studies was change in oxygenation. 
Key results: We found no clear evidence that particular body positions in newborn babies who need assisted ventilation are effective in producing relevant and sustained improvement. However, putting infants who receive assisted ventilation in the face‐down (prone) position for a short time slightly improves levels of oxygen in the blood (evidence of moderate quality), and these infants undergo fewer episodes of poor oxygenation (evidence of low quality). 
Researchers described no adverse effects for any of the positions compared, although studies did not last long enough for investigators to detect all possible effects. What's more, most of the babies participating in the studies were placed in alternate positions. For this reason, medium‐ or long‐term adverse effects cannot be attributed to a given position. 
