Vortioxetine for the treatment of depression in adults
Why is this review important? 
Many people suffer from major depression. Major depression is a serious illness that can cause significant distress both to patients and their families. Major depression affects people's work and relationships, but can also affect people physically, for example by changing concentration or appetite. Available antidepressant medicines are not always effective in treating major depression and may also have unpleasant side effects. This review compares a new antidepressant, vortioxetine, to placebo (a pretend treatment, e.g. sugar tablet) and other antidepressants. It is assumed that vortioxetine works differently from other available antidepressants and it is important to know if it is an effective treatment and a possible alternative for already available treatments. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
People affected by major depression and their families, general practitioners (GPs), psychiatrists, and pharmacists and other professionals working in adult mental health services. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Is vortioxetine more effective than placebo in treating individual with an episode of major depression? Is vortioxetine more or less effective than other available antidepressant treatments? Do more or fewer people stay in treatment when treated with vortioxetine compared to placebo or other antidepressants? Do more or fewer people have side effects when treated with vortioxetine compared to other antidepressants? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
In May 2016, we searched electronic medical databases to find trials that compared vortioxetine to placebo or other antidepressants. We included only studies that used a randomised controlled design (where people were randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) and had adults (aged over 18 years) with a diagnosis of major depression. We included 15 trials, involving 7746 participants in the review. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
The quality of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate, depending on the outcome (what symptom or effect was measured) and the comparison. Vortioxetine was more effective than placebo, but it was not more effective than other commonly used antidepressants. The studies found no difference in people stopping their treatment compared to placebo or other antidepressants. Vortioxetine was only compared to one type of medicine (called SNRIs) and not compared to the most frequently prescribed antidepressants. The outcomes varied markedly across studies. 
