Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (a traditional Chinese herbal medicine) for primary nephrotic syndrome 
Primary nephrotic syndrome (NS) is a relatively rare kidney disease (diagnosed in up to 7/100,000 children and 3/100,000 adults annually). However the resulting kidney damage causes loss of proteins in urine (proteinuria) leading to low level albumin in the bloodstream, which can cause raised lipids and severe, generalised swelling. Primary NS can also lead to blood clotting (thromboembolism), infection, and acute kidney injury, and may become life threatening. Treatment for primary NS aims to relieve symptoms, avoid complications, and prolong life. Immunosuppressive treatments are of importance for primary NS. In China, a traditional Chinese herbal medicine, Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F (TwHF) has been used for over two decades as an immunosuppressive agent to decrease proteinuria and preserve kidney function. TwHF is prescribed alone or in combination with corticosteroids or other immunosuppressive agents such as cyclophosphamide (CPA). 
In this review we investigated the use of TwHF as an immunosuppressive therapy for patients with primary NS. We only considered two standardised TwHF extracts which have lower toxicity profiles and fewer adverse effects than other non‐standardised preparations. We reviewed the evidence from 10 randomised studies enrolling 630 Chinese patients with primary NS. Of these, four studies (293 patients) reported that when TwHF was used there was a significantly increased number of patients achieving complete, and complete or partial remission without increasing adverse events. There were no significant differences in complete, partial, or complete or partial remission when TwHF was compared with prednisone in four studies (223 patients). There were also no significant differences in complete, partial, or complete or partial remission when TwHF was compared with CPA in two studies (114 patients). One study reported TwHF significantly improved kidney function (decreased serum creatinine) when compared with CPA. TwHF was associated with a lower risk of psychosis than prednisone; and there was less likelihood of hair loss when compared to CPA. The quality of evidence was poor; there were only 10 studies, enrolling a total of 630 patients; follow‐up was short; the maximum number of studies included in a comparison was four; and we had major concerns over the quality of the included studies. TwHF may have an add‐on effect on remission in patients with primary NS; however there is insufficient evidence to assess if TwHF is as effective as prednisone or CPA. 
