Beta‐blockers and inhibitors of the renin‐angiotensin aldosterone system for chronic heart failure with preserved ejection fraction 
Review question 
We investigated the effects of beta‐blockers (BBs), mineralocorticoid receptor antagonists (MRAs), angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs), angiotensin receptor blockers (ARBs) and angiotensin receptor neprilysin inhibitors (ARNIs) on survival, hospital admissions for heart failure, quality of life and potassium levels in people with heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF). 
Background 
Heart failure is a common condition that occurs when the function of the heart muscle is impaired, being associated with symptoms of breathlessness and fatigue, and a reduction in survival. In around half of cases of heart failure, where the left ventricular ejection fraction is reduced to less than 40% (reflecting significant impairment of contractile function), several drug treatments are known to be effective at improving survival and reducing hospitalisation. In the remaining cases, where the ejection fraction is normal or only mildly reduced (HFpEF), it is not clear whether the same drug treatments are effective at improving outcomes. 
Selection criteria 
We sought to investigate whether treatments for heart failure with reduced ejection fraction are also effective in HFpEF. We conducted a comprehensive search for all trials investigating BBs, MRAs, ACEIs, ARBs or ARNIs (evidence current to 14 May 2020). 
Results and conclusions 
We included 10 studies with 3087 randomised participants for BBs, 13 studies with 4459 randomised participants for MRAs, eight studies with 2061 randomised participants for ACEIs, eight studies with 8755 randomised participants for ARBs and three studies with 7702 randomised participants for ARNIs. We combined the evidence in a pooled analysis for each drug class and for each of the outcomes assessed. Not all included studies are part of each analysis. 
We found that BBs may improve cardiovascular mortality. However, the certainty of evidence was low due to small trials and uncertainty about the methods used. For MRAs, the results suggest a reduction in heart failure hospitalisation but little or no effect on cardiovascular and all‐cause mortality; however, the certainty of evidence was only moderate. For ACEIs, treatment probably has little or no effect on the outcomes of cardiovascular mortality, all‐cause mortality and heart failure hospitalisation; however, the certainty of evidence was only moderate. We found high certainty of evidence for ARB treatment, with the results suggesting little or no effect. We found that ARNI treatment has little or no effect on cardiovascular mortality (moderate‐certainty evidence), all‐cause mortality (high‐certainty evidence), or quality of life (high‐certainty evidence). ARB treatment may reduce slightly heart failure hospitalisations (moderate‐certainty evidence). Treatment with MRAs and ARBs was found to increase the risk of high potassium in the blood. 
In conclusion, treatment with MRAs, and possibly ARNIs, was found to result in a slight reduction in the risk of hospitalisation due to heart failure. There was some evidence of a possible beneficial effect of BB on mortality due to cardiovascular disease. Treatment with ACEI probably has no beneficial effect in people with HFpEF, however, this remains uncertain due to a lack of evidence from clinical trials. For ARBs, the evidence suggested that treatment is of little or no benefit in people with HFpEF. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of evidence ranged from high to low across the outcomes and drug classes studied. With the exception of ARBs and ARNIs, there was a lack of large‐scale trials in HFpEF for the interventions and outcomes tested. 
