Eszopiclone (Lunesta) for sleep difficulty
Why is this review important? 
Insomnia is the medical term for sleep difficulty covering trouble falling asleep, difficulties staying asleep, waking up too early or experiencing sleep as non‐restorative. Insomnia can be treated with different methods including behaviour modification, relaxation techniques, or sleeping medication. Eszopiclone (Lunesta) is a sleeping medication that belongs to a class of sleeping tablets known as non‐benzodiazepine hypnotics. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
People who are affected by insomnia, general practitioners, professionals working in health services, and addiction treatment and health policy makers. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
The review aimed to find out more about the wanted effects and unwanted effects of eszopiclone. Wanted effects included the immediate effects eszopiclone has on sleep; unwanted effects included side effects, effects on next‐day functioning, but also addictive properties of the drug. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
The review summarised findings from 14 clinical studies with 4732 people, either receiving eszopiclone or an identically‐appearing, but inert substance (placebo). 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
On average, people taking eszopiclone fell asleep 12 minutes faster than those taking placebo, were 17 minutes less awake during the night and had, in total, about half an hour more sleep than people in the placebo group. As side effects, eszopiclone can cause unpleasant taste, dizziness, dry mouth, and tiredness during the day. Clinical studies did not find evidence that eszopiclone was causing serious harm or withdrawal symptoms or whether it was addictive if it was stopped and not taken after several weeks or months of treatment. Nevertheless, as clinical studies included in the review did not cover certain groups (e.g. elderly people with cognitive or motor problems or certain conditions of medication intake), it is important for patients to consult their doctor who knows their medical history and condition. 
