Instruments for assisted vaginal birth
We used evidence from randomised controlled trials to assess the different forceps and vacuum suction cups used to achieve a vaginal birth. 
What is the issue? 
Late in labour, when the cervix (neck of the womb) is fully dilated, it is sometimes necessary to assist the birth of the baby through the vagina with an instrument. This may be because the mother is exhausted, suspected distress of the baby, or the mother has a medical condition preventing prolonged pushing. 
Two types of instruments can be used: forceps or vacuum suction cups. Forceps are further divided into 'ordinary forceps' for when the baby's head is in the correct position and 'rotational forceps', which are used to turn the baby's head into the correct position. Vacuum cups can be divided into ones with rigid or flexible cups and into ones containing a handheld suction device or ones connected to a foot‐operated or electric pump by a tube. This choice of instrument is often dictated by the clinical situation, but there is sometimes a choice. 
Why is it important? 
All types of instruments can cause complications for the mother or baby and all can also fail. It is therefore important to choose the correct instrument for the clinical situation with the best chance of ensuring a successful vaginal birth with the least risk of significant complications. 
What evidence did we find?  
We conducted a search on 14th May 2021. Our findings are based on 31 studies with a total of 5754 women and their babies. 
Twelve studies involving 3129 women compared any type of forceps with any vacuum cup. Forceps were more likely to achieve vaginal birth, but with a greater number of perineal tears including those affecting the anus or rectum (both low‐certainty evidence). The was no evidence of a difference in rates of postpartum haemorrhage (heavy bleeding after birth) between groups (low‐certainty evidence). There was no evidence of difference in the chances of low Apgar scores (a scoring system used to assess the baby's well‐being at 1 and 5 minutes to determine how well they are coping after the birth) and low umbilical artery pH (blood test from the cord to assess the baby's oxygen levels immediately before birth) (both low‐certainty evidence). Women who had forceps had higher pain relief requirements, although babies were less likely to be jaundiced. 
Two small studies in 218 women compared low forceps to any vacuum cup, but most of the evidence was of very low certainty, so we could draw no meaningful conclusion.  
Nine studies involving 1148 women compared rigid cups with soft cups and found that rigid cups may be more likely to result in a successful delivery (low‐certainty evidence), whilst there is probably no evidence of a difference in the rates of perineal tears affecting the anus or rectum or postpartum haemorrhages (low‐ and moderate‐certainty evidence). In addition there is no evidence of a difference in the rates of low Apgar and low umbilical artery pH (low‐certainty evidence). 
In four studies with a total of 962 women we found no evidence of difference in the chances of a failed delivery between the handheld vacuum‐cup group compared to the standard vacuum‐cup devices (low‐certainty evidence). In addition there was no evidence of differences in the risk of maternal rectal tissue trauma (low‐certainty evidence). Finally, there was no evidence of difference in the rates of postpartum haemorrhage, low umbilical artery pH or low Apgar between the two groups (low‐certainty evidence). 
What does this mean? 
The decision on which instrument to use is multifactorial and needs to consider the skills and resources available and the urgency for the birth. The clinician needs to choose the instrument that is most likely to achieve a successful birth with the least trauma to the mother and baby. 
