Unfractionated heparin versus low molecular weight heparin for avoiding heparin‐induced thrombocytopenia in postoperative patients 
Review question 
Is the incidence of heparin‐induced thrombocytopenia lower in postoperative patients receiving thromboprophylaxis with low molecular weight heparin in comparison with patients receiving unfractionated heparin? 
Background 
Heparin is a natural agent used to prevent clot formation in the vessels. Two types of heparins are widely used, unfractionated heparin (UFH) and low molecular weight heparin (LMWH). Heparin‐induced thrombocytopenia (HIT) is an adverse reaction that can occur during treatment with heparin. It is common in practice and its most important consequence is a paradoxical increase in the risk of clotting (thromboembolic) complications. A number of factors are thought to influence its frequency, including the type of heparin and the type of patient, with patients who have had a surgery at higher risk. We compared the risk of HIT in people who had had surgery and had been exposed to UFH or LMWH. A better understanding of this problem will allow safer management of postoperative patients who need thromboprophylaxis with heparin. 
Key characteristics and results 
High‐quality evidence about HIT from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) is sparse. Only three RCTs with a total of 1398 participants were suitable for including in this review (current until May 2016). Postoperative patients given LMWH had a lower risk of HIT than those given UFH (risk ratio (RR) 0.23, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.07 to 0.73); low‐quality evidence. The occurrence of HIT complicated by clotting was significantly lower in participants receiving LMWH compared with UFH (RR 0.22, 95% CI 0.06 to 0.84); low‐quality evidence. Two cases of HIT would be avoided for every 100 people treated with LMWH instead of UFH. A case of clotting complications of HIT would be avoided for every 75 people treated with LMWH. The risk of HIT was consistently reduced in people undergoing major surgical procedures exposed to LMWH or UFH (RR 0.22, 95% CI 0.06 to 0.75); low‐quality evidence. Although limited evidence is available, it appears that HIT induced by both types of heparins is common in people undergoing major surgical procedures (incidence greater than 1% and less than 10%). 
