Does dermoscopy improve the accuracy of diagnosing basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer (BCC or cSCC) compared to using the naked eye alone? 
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out whether using a handheld illuminated microscope (dermatoscope or ‘dermoscopy’) is any better at diagnosing basal cell carcinoma (BCC) or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) compared to just looking at the skin with the naked eye. We included 24 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving diagnosis of BCC or cSCC important? 
There are a number of different types of skin cancer. BCC and cSCC are less serious than melanoma skin cancer, because they usually grow more slowly and BCC does not spread to other organs in the body. Making the correct diagnosis of BCC or cSCC is still important, because their treatment may differ. A missed BCC (known as a false negative result) can result in disfigurement and the need for more major surgery. A missed cSCC can spread to other parts of the body. Diagnosing BCC or cSCC when they are not actually present (a false positive result) may mean unnecessary treatment, e.g. surgical removal which may result in a disfiguring scar, and worry to patients if the lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) is benign (not a cancer), or may result in wrong treatment, e.g. a non‐surgical therapy, being used if the lesion is misdiagnosed. 
What was studied in the review? 
A dermatoscope is a handheld magnifier that includes a light source. Dermoscopy is often used by skin specialists to help diagnose skin cancer. It is also being used more by community doctors. 
As well as seeing whether dermoscopy added anything to visual inspection alone overall, we also wanted to find out whether dermoscopy accuracy was different when used in a face‐to‐face consultation or when used on images of skin lesions sent to specialists. We also tried to find out whether the accuracy of dermoscopy was improved by use of a checklist, or if it was better when used by a skin specialist compared to a non‐specialist. 
