Ultrasonography versus computed tomography scan for endoleak detection after endoluminal abdominal aortic aneurysm repair 
Background 
An abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is a localised swelling or widening of a major vessel that carries blood to the abdomen (tummy), pelvis, and legs. People with AAA are at risk from sudden death due to AAA rupture (bursting). Once detected, intervention (treatment) is recommended once the AAA is bigger than about 5 cm in diameter. Most repairs are now performed using a new vessel lining inside the aneurysm guided by x‐ray control (endovascular aneurysm repair or EVAR). 
Once the new lining is in place, the seals at either end may leak or vessel branches arising from the aneurysm wall may bleed backwards into the AAA sac. These are collectively referred to as endoleaks. Endoleaks are common after EVAR, developing in about 40% of people during monitoring (follow‐up). Endoleaks can be associated with late aneurysm rupture and, therefore, detection and monitoring is essential. Ultrasound (uses high‐frequency sound waves), computed tomography (uses x‐rays), and magnetic resonance scans (uses strong magnetic fields and radio waves) have all been used to detect and monitor endoleaks. Sometimes, dye (contrast) is injected into a vein to improve the accuracy of ultrasound (contrast‐enhanced ultrasound). 
Study characteristics 
We collected the most recent evidence (to July 2016) and conducted a meta‐analysis according to the most appropriate methods for diagnostic tests. We included 42 studies with 4220 participants in the review. 
Key results 
The analyses measured sensitivity (how well a test identified people with endoleak correctly) and specificity (how well a test identified people without endoleak correctly). The summary accuracy estimates were sensitivity 82% (95% confidence interval 66% to 91%) and specificity 93% (95% confidence interval 87% to 96%) for ultrasonography without contrast; and sensitivity 94% (95% confidence interval 85% to 98%) and specificity 95% (95% confidence interval 90% to 98%) for ultrasonography with contrast. Use of contrast improved the sensitivity of ultrasound significantly. Based on these results, we would expect 94% of people with endoleaks will be correctly identified by contrast‐enhanced ultrasound. 
