Non‐surgical management after non‐surgical repositioning of traumatic anterior dislocation of the shoulder 
Background 
Acute anterior shoulder dislocation is an injury in which the top end of the upper arm bone is pushed out of the joint socket in a forward direction. Afterwards, the shoulder is less stable, and prone to either partial or complete re‐dislocation, especially in active young adults. Initial treatment involves putting the joint back in place. This is called ‘closed reduction’ when it is done without surgery. Subsequent treatment is often conservative (non‐surgical) and usually involves a period of immobilisation of the injured arm in a sling or brace, followed by exercises. 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of different conservative interventions for treating people after closed reduction of a primary traumatic anterior shoulder dislocation? 
This is an update of a review that was first published in 2006 and last updated in 2014. We reviewed the evidence from clinical studies comparing any conservative intervention (e.g. immobilisation, rehabilitation) versus no treatment or a different intervention, or comparing different variants of an intervention (e.g. different duration). The primary outcomes of interest were re‐dislocation, patient‐reported shoulder instability measures (usually questionnaires) and return to pre‐injury activities. Further outcomes of interest included patients’ satisfaction with the intervention, health‐related quality of life and adverse events. 
Search date 
We conducted the searches of healthcare literature for this review in May 2018.
Study characteristics 
We identified three new relevant studies in this update. In total, this review now includes seven studies with 704 participants. Most of the participants (82%) were male; the average age across the studies was 29 years (range 12 to 90 years). All of the studies investigated just one comparison: immobilisation in external rotation (when the arm is orientated outwards with the forearm away from the chest) versus immobilisation in internal rotation (the usual sling position, where the arm rests against the chest) following closed reduction. Participants were followed over different lengths of time; the most common duration was two years or longer. 
Key results 
We are uncertain whether immobilisation in external rotation makes a difference to the risk of re‐dislocation at one‐year or more follow‐up compared with immobilisation in internal rotation. 
