Interventions for preventing lymphoedema (swelling of the arm) after breast cancer treatment 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of interventions on preventing lymphoedema in women after breast cancer surgery. 
Background 
About one in five people treated for breast cancer develop lymphoedema later on. We reviewed the available evidence to determine whether some methods, such as manual lymph drainage (a massage therapy), compression, exercise or only education could help prevent lymphoedema. 
Study characteristics The evidence is current to May 2013. Ten studies were included: four studies used manual lymph drainage with usual care, or combined with exercise or compression versus usual care or education alone (395 participants); three studies examined early versus late start of postoperative shoulder exercises (378 people); two studies used either progressive resistance exercise or restricted activity (358 people); and one study investigated a physiotherapy care plan versus no physiotherapy (65 people). The duration of patient follow‐up ranged from two days to two years after the intervention. 
Key results 
No firm conclusion can be drawn about the effect of manual lymph drainage in addition to exercise and education on preventing the incidence of lymphoedema. This is because the two included studies found contradicting results. In addition, no firm conclusion can be drawn about manual lymph drainage in combination with other interventions, because only two studies were found that each tested different combinations. One of these studies found that manual lymph drainage combined with exercise lowered the risk of lymphoedema. The other study combined manual lymph drainage with compression, but this study was too small to draw conclusions. 
Arm mobility (i.e. reaching upwards over the head) was better after manual lymph drainage than without it, but this improvement lasted only for the first few weeks after breast cancer surgery. 
When assessing whether early or late shoulder exercises reduced the likelihood of developing lymphoedema, the studies did not provide a clear result. The likely incidence of lymphoedema ranged from 5% to 27% (early start) compared to 4% to 20% (for delayed start) during the first 6 to 12 months after surgery. Starting shoulder exercises immediately after surgery may improve shoulder mobility in the first month, compared to starting after the first week but no firm conclusions can be drawn and mobility is comparable later on. 
Progressive resistance training did not increase the risk of developing lymphoedema compared to restricted activity, on the basis that symptoms were monitored and treated immediately if they occurred. 
