What is the best insulin type and regimen for pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes?
What is the issue? 
The insulin needs of pregnant women with type 1 or 2 diabetes change during pregnancy. Insulin is available in many forms, which affect how often and when the insulin is given. These forms vary in the time needed before the insulin has its effect, how long the effect may last, and whether it is made from animals or humans, which may be important personally or culturally. This review looked at the safest and most effective types and ways of giving insulin during pregnancy. 
Why is this important? 
Women with type 1 or 2 diabetes are at increased risk of complications during pregnancy and birth. They are more likely to experience pregnancy loss (stillbirth, miscarriage), high blood pressure and pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure associated with swelling and protein in the urine), and have large babies (called macrosomia, when the baby is 4 kg or more at birth) that result in injury to the mother or baby. The likelihood of having a caesarean is increased. Mothers and babies may have complications related to managing blood glucose levels. The baby is more likely to become overweight and develop type 2 diabetes. We wanted to find out the best type of insulin and regimen to use during pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found five randomised trials (N = 554 women and 554 babies) in October 2016. Each trial looked at different insulin types and ways of giving the insulin. Different outcomes were looked at in each trial. One trial did not include any of the review's main outcomes. All five trials were small, and at a high or unclear risk of bias because of limitations in how the trials were conducted. The quality of the evidence was very low. 
When rapid‐acting human insulin (Lispro) was compared to regular insulin (N = 33), investigators found no clear differences between the groups for pre‐eclampsia, abnormalities in the baby, or the need for a caesarean. Macrosomia, perinatal death, birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy, and fracture, and the composite measure of neonatal morbidity were not reported. 
One trial (N = 43) that compared human insulin to animal insulin did not show any clear difference in the number of babies with macrosomia. Perinatal death, pre‐eclampsia, caesarean section, fetal anomaly, birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy, and fracture, and the composite measure of neonatal morbidity were not reported. 
One trial (N = 93) found no clear differences between pre‐mixed and self‐mixed insulin groups in the number of babies with macrosomia, and the number of women who had a caesarean section. This trial also compared insulin injected with a pen and a needle (syringe). Women in the insulin pen group were less likely to have a caesarean section, although the number of macrosomic babies was not clearly different. Perinatal death, pre‐eclampsia, fetal anomaly, birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy, and fracture, and the composite measure of neonatal morbidity were not reported. 
One trial (N = 223) comparing insulin Aspart to human insulin did not include any of the review's primary outcomes (macrosomia, perinatal death, pre‐eclampsia, caesarean section, fetal anomaly, birth trauma including shoulder dystocia, nerve palsy, and fracture, or the composite measure of neonatal morbidity). 
