Tranexamic acid for preventing bleeding after delivery
Postpartum haemorrhage is a common and an occasionally life‐threatening complication of labour. The majority of women receive drugs that directly stimulate the uterus (prophylactic uterotonics) during childbirth to prevent haemorrhages resulting from failure of the uterine muscle to contract normally (uterine atony). 
Tranexamic acid (TA) is used to decrease blood loss in surgery and health conditions associated with increased bleeding. It works by helping to prevent the breakdown of fibrin and maintenance of blood clots. This review found that TA was also effective in reducing excessive blood loss, need for additional medical interventions to control bleeding and blood transfusions after a mother gave birth based on studies of mixed quality. Twelve trials (3285 participants) were included in the review. TA was given before caesarean section in nine randomised trials or following the vaginal birth of a baby (three randomised trials) to generally healthy women. 
TA decreased blood loss greater than 400 mL or greater than 500 mL and this effect was more apparent with vaginal births. The studies had methodological shortcomings. Blood loss greater than 1000 mL decreased with the use of TA in six trials (2093 women), however, the difference was most obvious in caesarean section (two trials, 1400 women) and not in vaginal birth in which there were few such outcomes (one trial, 439 women). Mean blood loss decreased with the use of TA by 77 mL, overall (five studies, 1186 women) and with both vaginal and caesarean section births. This finding was based on studies with methodological limitations. 
The studies were too small to detect the effect of TA on maternal death or blood clots. Mild side effects, which include diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, were more common in women who received TA versus placebo or no intervention. No differences in blood loss and side effects were found when two different doses of TA were evaluated. Further larger studies are needed to investigate the effects of TA on maternal deaths and formation of clots in the blood (thromboembolism). 
