How well does botulinum toxin (type A; often called ‘Botox’) treat wrinkles on the face? 
Key messages 
Injecting botulinum toxin type A (a Botox‐like treatment) reduces wrinkles between the eyebrows, and is relatively safe to use. The effects on wrinkles were seen when measured at four weeks after the injection. Injecting botulinum toxin type A probably increases the risk of eyelid drooping. More studies are needed to assess the longer‐term benefits and harms of repeated treatment with botulinum toxin. 
Treating facial wrinkles 
Continuous movement of muscles in the face can cause the skin to wrinkle as it ages and becomes less elastic. Botulinum toxin type A is a chemical that relaxes muscles; it is produced by a type of bacteria. It is commonly used to smooth out lines and wrinkles by injecting it into the muscles of the face to stop their movement for a short time. Muscle activity usually stops completely within five to 15 days after the injection. The effects on the muscles are temporary and usually last for around four to six months. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out how well botulinum toxin could treat wrinkles on the face, and if it causes any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested the effects of botulinum toxin to treat wrinkles on the face. 
What did we find? 
We found 65 studies in 14,919 people (mostly women) who went to a day clinic or private office for treatment. The studies lasted from one week to one year; the average length of treatment was 20 weeks. The studies compared one type of botulinum toxin against another type, against a placebo (an injection that did not contain any botulinum toxin), or against an alternative treatment. Several studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
The studies tested four types of botulinum toxin that were licensed for use and some other types that were not yet licensed. 
All studies assessed the success of treatment by measuring wrinkles and lines when facial muscles were at their most tense. Most studies treated wrinkles that develop between the eyebrows, known as 'glabellar lines'. 
What are the main results of our review? 
At four weeks after injection, all types of botulinum toxin reduced glabellar lines more than a placebo. This effect was seen whether the wrinkles were assessed by doctors or by the people who had the injections. 
Unwanted effects are probably more common with botulinum toxin than with placebo injections. The most commonly reported unwanted effects are drooping eyelids, squinting (when the eyes point in different directions) and numbness of the eyelid. 
Two studies compared two different types of botulinum toxin and found no difference between the types for how well they reduced glabellar lines. 
