Benefits and harms of high‐ versus low‐intensity exercise programs for hip or knee osteoarthritis 
Review question 
We searched the literature until June 2014 for studies on the benefits and harms of high‐ versus low‐intensity exercise programs for people with hip or knee osteoarthritis. 
Background 
Osteoarthritis is a chronic condition that affects the joints (commonly hips, knees, spine, and hands). Over time, cartilage wears down in joints. People with osteoarthritis generally feel pain and can have difficulties performing daily activities such as walking. Exercise or physical activity programs are non‐drug treatments usually recommended for people with hip or knee osteoarthritis. Many types of exercises are prescribed, but it may be unclear whether or not they are effective. Several different components can play a role in the effectiveness of an exercise regimen, such as exercise duration, frequency, or level of resistance. High intensity can be defined as an extra amount of time (duration or frequency) or resistance (strength or effort) required in the exercise programs. 
Study characteristics 
We identified six randomized controlled trails with 656 participants. Five studies (620 participants) enrolled people with knee osteoarthritis, and one study (36 participants) enrolled people with knee or hip osteoarthritis. The studies included more women (70%) than men. 
Key results 
On a scale of 0 to 20 points (lower scores mean reduced pain), people who completed a high‐intensity exercise program rated their pain 0.84 points lower (4% absolute improvement) than people who completed a low‐intensity exercise program. People who performed a low‐intensity exercise program rated their pain at 6.6 points. 
On a scale of 0 to 68 points (lower scores mean better function), people who completed a high‐intensity exercise program rated their physical function 2.65 points lower (4% absolute improvement) than people who completed a low‐intensity exercise program. People who performed a low‐intensity exercise program rated their pain at 20.4 points. 
On a scale of 0 to 200 mm visual analog scale (higher score means better function), people who completed a high‐intensity exercise program rated their quality of life 4.3 mm higher (6.5 mm lower to 15.2 mm higher) (2% absolute improvement) than people who performed a low‐intensity exercise program. People who performed a low‐intensity exercise program rated their quality of life at 66.7 mm. 
