Use by postmenopausal women of creams, pessaries or a vaginal ring to apply oestrogen vaginally for symptoms of vaginal dryness 
Review question 
Cochrane researchers reviewed the evidence about the efficacy and safety of intravaginal oestrogenic preparations compared with each other or placebo (inactive or sham treatment) in women undergoing treatment for the symptoms of vaginal atrophy. 
Background 
Vaginal atrophy is a common condition in women after menopause. It causes vaginal dryness and itching and can make intercourse painful. The female hormone oestrogen is a treatment option for vaginal atrophy, but can cause adverse effects such as increased thickness in the lining of the womb (endometrium) which could be due to endometrial hyperplasia or cancer (resulting in vaginal bleeding) and breast tenderness. Oestrogen is available as an oral tablet, skin patch or implant under the skin. Alternatively, women can apply the hormone locally using creams, pessaries (tablets placed in the vagina) or a hormone‐releasing ring placed in the vagina. There is, therefore, the need to evaluate the efficacy and safety of these locally‐administered oestrogenic preparations. 
Study characteristics 
We found 30 randomised controlled trials comparing intravaginal oestrogenic preparations with one another or with placebo in a total of 6235 postmenopausal women undergoing treatment for the symptoms of vaginal atrophy. The evidence is current to April 2016. 
Key results 
There was no evidence of a difference in the proportions of women who reported improvement in symptoms of vaginal atrophy between the following treatment comparisons: oestrogen ring and oestrogen cream, oestrogen ring and oestrogen tablets, oestrogen tablets and oestrogen cream, oestrogen cream and isoflavone gel. However, a higher proportion of women reported improvement in symptoms in the following active treatments compared with placebo: oestrogen ring versus placebo, oestrogen tablets versus placebo and oestrogen cream versus placebo. In the case of oestrogen tablets versus placebo and using a random‐effect model for analysis of the data because of substantial heterogeneity, there was no longer evidence of a difference in effect on improvement in symptoms. 
With respect to safety, a higher proportion of women who received oestrogen cream showed evidence of increase in endometrial thickness compared to those who were treated with oestrogen ring, which may have been due to the higher doses of cream used. However, there was no evidence of a difference in the proportions of women with increase in thickness of the lining of the womb between oestrogen tablets and oestrogen cream. 
