Retinoic acid after intensive chemotherapy and bone marrow transplantation in people with high‐risk neuroblastoma 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of adding retinoic acid as part of a postconsolidation therapy after intensive chemotherapy (high‐dose chemotherapy) followed by autologous (from the same person) bone marrow transplantation (haematopoietic stem cell transplantation) in people with high‐risk neuroblastoma. A consolidation therapy tries to destroy possible remnant cancer cells after a preceding therapy has achieved the elimination of detectable tumour. A postconsolidation therapy is applied after that consolidation therapy. The addition of retinoic acid was compared to the same pretreatment but placebo (inactive) retinoic acid or no addition of retinoic acid for two primary and five secondary outcomes. The primary outcomes were overall survival (participants who did not die) and treatment‐related mortality (participants who died due to complications of the intervention). Secondary outcomes were progression‐free survival (the condition did not worsen), event‐free survival (staying free of any of a particular group of events), early and late toxicity (harmful effects), and health‐related quality of life. 
Background 
Neuroblastoma is a rare cancerous disease and mainly affects infants and very young children. The high‐risk group is prone to spread of the disease and other characteristics that increase the risk of an adverse event. Retinoic acid stops uncontrolled cell growth in laboratory cell cultures and might reduce the return of the tumour after high‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation in people with high‐risk neuroblastoma. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 24 November 2016. We included a single randomised trial with 50 people allocated to the addition of retinoic acid after high‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation, and 48 people allocated to the same treatment but without the addition of retinoic acid. 
Key results 
The update search did not identify any new studies. Overall survival and event‐free survival were no different between the two treatment alternatives. Other outcomes, including those concerning adverse events, were not adequately reported. Additional retinoic acid as part of a postconsolidation therapy after high‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous haematopoietic stem cell transplantation may not improve survival in people with high‐risk neuroblastoma, and we lack information on its safety. More research is needed before we can draw solid conclusions. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence is based on a single study. The quality of the evidence in this single included study is low. 
