Does placing a tiny tube (microstent) under the surface of the eye relieve long‐lasting high pressure inside the eye (glaucoma)? 
What is open‐angle glaucoma?Glaucoma is a common eye condition caused by fluid building up in the front part of the eye, which increases pressure inside the eye. The increased pressure damages the nerve that connects the eye to the brain (optic nerve), causing loss of sight. Glaucoma can lead to permanent loss of sight (blindness) if it is not diagnosed and treated early. 
Open‐angle glaucoma is the most common type of glaucoma and tends to develop slowly over many years. It is caused by drainage channels in the eye gradually becoming blocked over time. 
Treatments for glaucomaTreatment cannot reverse any loss of sight that happened before glaucoma was diagnosed but can slow or stop loss of sight. All treatments for glaucoma aim to reduce the pressure in the eye. These include: 
‐ medicines, given as eye‐drops;‐ laser treatment to reduce the production of fluid and open up blocked drainage channels; or‐ surgery to drain fluid from the eye. 
One treatment involves placing a tiny tube (called a microstent) under the surface of the eye to create a drainage channel for excess fluid. Microstents can often be placed during surgery to treat cataracts: cloudy patches that develop on the lens inside the eye and make sight misty and blurred. 
Why we did this Cochrane ReviewPlacing a microstent may lower pressure inside the eye and reduce the need for eye‐drop medicines or for other types of surgery that may have greater risks. We wanted to find out if placing a microstent during cataract surgery would lower pressure inside the eye in people with open‐angle glaucoma. 
We were also interested in how the microstent affected:
‐ the need for medicines to reduce pressure in the eye; and‐ people's well‐being. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that tested the effect of placing a microstent during cataract surgery in people with open‐angle glaucoma. We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which those people who received a microstent and those who did not, was decided by chance. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to August 2020. 
What we foundWe found one study that took place in the USA and involved 505 people (aged 45 years and older) with open angle glaucoma and a cataract. 
The study divided patients into two groups. One group had a microstent placed during surgery to treat their cataract; the other group received surgery to treat their cataract only. Patients in the study were assessed for two years. 
The study was funded by a company that makes microstents for use in treating glaucoma.
What are the main results of our review?Two years after having cataract surgery, in people who also had a microstent placed: 
‐ more of them (85% in this group compared to 59% in the other) did not need eye‐drop medicines to treat glaucoma (evidence from 448 people);‐ they had greater reductions in pressure inside the affected eye, than people not given a microstent (448 people);‐ they had greater reductions, on average, in the use of eye‐drop medicines, than people not given a microstent (448 people); and ‐ fewer people needed further surgery to treat glaucoma (505 people). 
