Oxytocin for preventing postpartum haemorrhage in non‐facility birth settings
What is the issue? 
Postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) ‐ excessive blood loss (of more than half a litre) following a vaginal birth ‐ is the single leading cause of maternal mortality worldwide. Most of the deaths associated with PPH occur in low‐income settings where effective methods of prevention and treatment are not easily accessible. 
Why is this important? 
Oxytocin is a drug widely used for preventing and treating PPH, but most of the evidence supporting its effectiveness comes from hospital settings in high‐income countries. Easier methods of oxytocin administration have been developed for use in low‐income settings, such as pre‐filled auto‐disposable intramuscular injection syringes or a spray‐dried ultrafine formulation of oxytocin. The effectiveness of these methods has not been assessed in a systematic review. 
What evidence did we find? 
On 12 November 2015 we searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials and found a single trial conducted across four rural districts in Ghana. The trial randomised 28 community health officers (serving 2404 potentially eligible pregnant women) to the intervention group and 26 community health officers (3515 potentially eligible pregnant women) to the control group. 
It was uncertain from this trial whether the intervention prevented loss of more than one litre of blood (severe PPH) as the results were variable and suggested anything between a 98% decrease to a 30% increase in blood loss (very low‐quality evidence). Because there were no cases of severe maternal illness (for example, because of uterine rupture), or maternal deaths, it was not possible to fully assess the effect of the intervention on those outcomes (thequality of the evidence was very low). 
The women receiving oxytocin had half the incidence of PPH (> 500 mL) compared with the control group (low‐quality evidence). There was little or no difference between the oxytocin and control groups on the rates for transfer or referral of women to a healthcare facility (low‐quality evidence), stillbirths (low‐quality evidence), or the numbers of babies that died within three days of being born (low‐quality evidence). 
There were no cases of oxytocin use during labour, needle‐stick injury or any other major or minor adverse events or unanticipated harmful event. 
Overall, the quality of the evidence was low/very low because of methodological limitations in the trial and imprecision in the effect estimates for all the important outcomes. 
What does this mean? 
It is uncertain if the administration of oxytocin by community health officers without midwifery skills administered in non‐health facility settings compared with a control group reduces the incidence of severe PPH, severe maternal illness or maternal deaths when compared with a control group. However, oxytocin probably decreases the incidence of PPH (> 500 mL). 
