Mucolytic agents for chronic bronchitis or chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Background to the question 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) and chronic bronchitis are long‐term breathing conditions. They cause symptoms such as shortness of breath, cough, and excess sputum. People with COPD and chronic bronchitis may have flare‐ups (exacerbations) when their symptoms become worse. 
Mucolytics are medicines taken orally that may loosen sputum, making it easier to cough it up. Mucolytics may have other beneficial effects on lung infection and inflammation and may reduce the number of flare‐ups that people with COPD and chronic bronchitis have. Mucolytics can also be inhaled, but we did not look at inhaled mucolytics in this review. 
Study characteristics 
We looked for studies lasting at least two months, in which it was decided at random whether a person received a mucolytic drug or a placebo. We did not include studies involving children or people with other breathing conditions such as asthma and cystic fibrosis. 
We found 38 studies to include in our review. These studies included a total of 10,377 adults with COPD or chronic bronchitis. The studies used a variety of mucolytic drugs, including N‐acetylcysteine, carbocysteine, and erdosteine and lasted from two months to three years. Mucolytics were taken by mouth between one and three times per day. These studies measured several different outcomes to find out if the drug was useful, including flare‐ups, hospital admissions, quality of life, lung function, and side effects. 
Key results 
We found that people taking mucolytic drugs were less likely to experience a flare‐up compared to those taking placebo. Approximately eight people would need to take the drug for nine months for one extra person to avoid having a flare‐up. This result was based on 28 studies involving 6723 people. However, the studies carried out a longer time ago (1970s to 1990s) show greater benefit than those carried out more recently. Shorter studies also seemed to show more benefit than longer studies. This could be because the newer trials were larger and may be showing that mucolytics are less beneficial than the earlier studies showed. Or it could be that only studies that showed mucolytics as beneficial were published before the 2000s, when there was a push to report all trial results regardless of whether or not they showed benefit. 
People taking mucolytics had fewer days of disability (i.e. days when they could not do their normal activities) every month, but this was quite a small difference ‐ less than half a day per person per month. They were also approximately one‐third less likely to be admitted to hospital, although this result is based on only five studies that provided this information. 
