An assessment of the effectiveness and safety of a treatment used for children with encephalitis 
Background 
At present, there is uncertainty among clinicians regarding the routine use of a treatment called intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) in the management of children with some forms of encephalitis (inflammation of the brain). This study is important because it is the first to evaluate through direct comparison whether adding IVIG to standard treatment has added beneficial effect in terms of clinical effectiveness and safety in the management of children with encephalitis. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases for studies in which neither participants nor researchers were told which treatment was given (called a randomised double‐blind trial). The effectiveness and safety of IVIG were considered in terms of the occurrence of significant disability at six months after hospital discharge and the proportion of children experiencing at least one serious side effect. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
Up to 30 September 2016, only three studies comprising 138 children met the criteria to be included in this review. All three studies included only children with viral encephalitis. One study of Japanese encephalitis, a specific form of viral encephalitis, analysed both effectiveness and safety, and concluded that IVIG treatment had no additional beneficial effects when compared with placebo (pretend) treatment. The other two studies analysed other measurements, such as length of hospital stay, time to resolution of spasms, symptoms arising due to nerve damage, and time to regain consciousness and concluded that adding IVIG treatment was more effective than standard care alone when these outcomes were considered. The quality of the evidence was very low due to the small number of children and studies. 
Conclusions 
The quality of evidence in the included studies was very low, making it impossible to draw any firm and definite conclusions on the clinical efficacy and safety of IVIG treatment for children with encephalitis. 
