Glucocorticoid supplementation for IVF/ICSI
Review question 
Does glucocorticoid supplementation improve outcomes in women undergoing controlled ovarian stimulation during in‐vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intra‐cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycles? 
We reviewed the evidence on women having a glucocorticoid component added to the usual ovarian stimulation protocols versus those that received only the standard traditional ovarian stimulation protocols. 
Background 
Ovarian response to stimulation during IVF and ICSI cycles plays an important role in determining live birth rates. Most ovarian stimulation regimens administer a combination of hormones to stimulate the ovaries, suppress the pituitary gland and prevent surges of natural hormones that may be detrimental to egg maturation. Various add‐on (adjuvant) treatments during ovarian stimulation have been used in an attempt to improve this process, and it has been suggested that the addition of a glucocorticoid component may improve results. 
Study characteristics 
We found four randomised controlled trials (RCTs), but useable data were available for only two of these. The trials compared adjuvant treatment with systemic glucocorticoids during ovarian stimulation for IVF cycles versus no placebo. The evidence is current to October 2016. 
Key results
Two RCTs were included in our analyses (310 women). For the outcome of live birth, data were available for only 212 women, as the larger study had data available from only one study centre. 
There was no conclusive evidence of a difference in the primary outcome of live birth rate and the secondary outcome of clinical pregnancy rate. Our findings suggest that if the chance of live birth with placebo is assumed to be 15%, the chance following supplementation would be between 7% and 31%, and that if the chance of clinical pregnancy with placebo is assumed to be 24%, the chance following treatment with supplementation would be between 23% and 47%. There was also insufficient evidence to determine whether there was any difference between the groups in the multiple‐pregnancy rate or miscarriage rate. Neither of the studies reported ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS) or side‐effects. 
Thus, the safety and effectiveness of glucocorticoid administration in women undergoing controlled ovarian hyperstimulation for IVF/ICSI cycles (until the day of oocyte retrieval) is unclear due to the small number of studies and low event rates. Whilst glucocorticoids possibly increase the clinical pregnancy rate, there may be little or no impact on the live birth rate. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence was rated as low or very low quality for all outcomes, mainly due to imprecision, with low sample sizes and few events. 
