Surgery to improve vision in people with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION) 
Review questionThis review looked at the evidence about the safety and effectiveness of surgery (optic nerve decompression surgery) compared with no treatment on the vision of people with nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy (NAION). 
BackgroundNAION is a sudden and painless loss of vision in the eye attributed to swelling of the area inside the eye where the optic nerve connects to it. The swelling of the tissue puts pressure on the optic nerve, and it is believed that this pressure interrupts the blood supply to the optic nerve, causing loss of vision. The cause of NAION is not known. No treatment has been proven to help. 
A proposed treatment for NAION is called optic nerve decompression surgery. This surgery makes two slits or a window in the swollen eye tissue surrounding the optic nerve. These slits allow fluid building up around the optic nerve to escape. The hope is that this would reduce the pressure on the optic nerve and vision would improve. 
Study characteristicsThe search for studies was done on 23 October 2014. One study (a randomized controlled trial) was found. There were 258 participants in the trial. These 258 people were randomly divided into two groups. One group received the optic nerve decompression surgery along with careful follow‐up. The other group received careful follow‐up alone. Careful follow‐up included an ophthalmologic examination at each study visit and visual field testing at 12 months and as needed. The technician performing the follow‐up tests did not know to which group the participants belonged (surgery or no surgery). Funding for this trial was provided by National Eye Institute, USA. 
Key resultsThe trial was stopped early because the surgery was not helping the participants more than careful follow‐up alone. The trial found no evidence of benefit from the surgery, but there were several harms caused by the surgery, such as further vision loss. Pain and double vision were harms experienced by some participants in the surgery group at one week after the surgery. The trial investigators reported that continued enrollment would be unlikely to produce results in favor of surgery. 
Quality of the evidence The quality of evidence in this one trial is considered high. 
