Paravertebral block versus thoracic epidural for patients undergoing thoracotomy
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of paravertebral block and thoracic epidural for patients undergoing thoracotomy. We found 14 studies. 
Background 
Operations on structures in the chest (usually the lungs) involve cutting between the ribs (thoracotomy) resulting in severe pain. Poor pain relief post‐surgery can slow down recovery and increase risks of developing complications. Effective management of acute pain following thoracotomy may prevent these complications and reduce the likelihood of developing long‐term pain. We wanted to discover whether blocking the nerves as they emerge from the spinal column (paravertebral block, (PVB)) was better or worse than using central neuraxial nerve block (thoracic epidural block, (TEB)). 
This evidence is current to 16th October 2013. We reran the search on 31st January 2015. We found one additional study which is awaiting classification and which we will include when we update the review. 
Study characteristics 
We found 14 studies involving 698 participants. Whilst all 14 studies compared broadly the analgesic efficacy of PVB and TEB in participants undergoing open thoracotomy, there were significant differences in the timing, method of insertion and medications used in PVB and TEB. This makes direct comparison difficult. Patient follow‐up was limited to the immediate post‐surgery period (up to five days post‐surgery) with only two studies reporting long‐term outcomes such as chronic pain. There are two studies awaiting classification. 
Key results 
We found no difference between PVB and TEB in terms of death at 30 days and major complications. PVB appeared to be as effective as TEB in pain control post‐surgery. TEB was associated with minor complications such as low blood pressure, nausea and vomiting, itching and urinary retention when compared to PVB. We did not find any difference in length of hospital stay between PVB and TEB. There was insufficient information to assess chronic pain and health costs. 
Quality of evidence 
We found low‐quality evidence for death at 30 days, with limited information provided by only two studies reporting this outcome. We only found low to very low‐quality evidence for major complications due to lack of information, with only one study reporting these outcomes. We found moderate‐quality evidence for acute pain control in the immediate postoperative period. We found moderate‐quality evidence for minor complications. 
