Interventions for preventing and reducing the use of physical restraints of older people in hospital 
What was studied in this review? 
Physical restraints are devices which reduce a person's freedom to move. These can be bedrails, belts in chairs or beds, and fixed tables, which prevent people from getting out of bed or a chair, or mitts which prevent someone using their hands freely. In some countries, physical restraints are used quite commonly for older people in general hospital wards. A main reason for this is to try to prevent falls and fall‐related injuries, or to prevent people from removing drips or tubes. Physical restraints are also used as a response to behaviours that make care more challenging for health care staff and may be risky, such as people behaving in an agitated or aggressive way or wandering unobserved around the ward. They are most often used in the hospital care of older people with mobility problems or cognitive impairment due to dementia or delirium. 
It is not clear whether physical restraint use is effective at preventing falls or the removal of tubes, but their use may increase feelings of fear, anger and discomfort and decrease well‐being. Other unintended consequences of using physical restraints include worsened mobility, increased risk of pressure ulcers and incontinence, and injuries directly related to the use of physical restraints. Therefore, physical restraints may have a negative impact on the recovery and rehabilitation of older people in hospital. Guidelines recommend that their use is reduced or stopped, and in some countries they are illegal in most circumstances. Interventions for preventing and reducing the use of physical restraints typically include education for staff and promotion of the use of other care strategies. Sometimes they may involve providing alternative devices which are thought to be less restrictive. 
What did we want to find out? 
We aimed to find out which interventions are most effective for preventing or reducing the use of physical restraints for older people in hospitals. 
