Treatments for female pattern hair loss
Review question 
Which treatments are effective and safe for female pattern hair loss (FPHL)?
Background 
The most common type of hair loss in women is FPHL, also known as androgenic alopecia. Unlike men, women do not go bald, but have hair thinning predominantly over the top and front of the head. It can occur at any time, from puberty until later in life. However, it occurs more frequently in postmenopausal women. 
The diagnosis is supported by careful history taking (including family history). Other causes should be considered; therefore, a clinical examination and laboratory tests may be necessary. FPHL can have a significant impact on self‐consciousness, and the damage to a woman's self‐confidence can affect her quality of life (QoL), leading to feelings of unattractiveness, shame, discomfort, emotional stress, and low self‐esteem. 
Study characteristics 
We examined the available evidence up to 7 July 2015. Forty‐seven studies, which included 5290 women, met the inclusion criteria of this Cochrane review. The mean age of participants in the studies varied from 27 to 57 years. We assessed over half of the included studies as at unclear risk of bias, 16 as high risk, and only five studies as low risk of bias. Funding was provided in 26 of the 47 studies, mainly by pharmaceutical companies. 
Key results 
This Cochrane review found that minoxidil is more effective than placebo. In six studies, the proportion of women that experienced at least moderate hair regrowth was twice as high in the minoxidil group compared to the placebo group. This was confirmed by the investigators assessments in seven studies. In eight studies, there was an important increase in total hair count per cm² in the minoxidil group compared to the placebo group. QoL was only assessed in one study and it was unclear from the data if there was an important improvement. The number of adverse events was similar for both groups. These were mostly mild, consisting of itch, skin irritation, dermatitis, and additional hair growth on areas other than the scalp. 
