Methotrexate alone versus methotrexate in combination with other medications for rheumatoid arthritis 
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of methotrexate in combination with other drugs compared to methotrexate alone for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what is methotrexate? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for RA at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move.  Drugs such as methotrexate also aim to help prevent permanent damage to your joints that can happen if RA is not treated.  
Methotrexate is a Disease‐Modifying Anti‐Rheumatic Drug (DMARD).  Methotrexate may treat rheumatoid arthritis by decreasing the activity of the immune system. Methotrexate is a common treatment for RA and may be prescribed in combination with other drugs, especially in people who are not improving on methotrexate alone. DMARDs like methotrexate come as tablets, capsules and, in some cases, injections. 
What the research says 
There is probably little or no difference in symptoms of RA when taking methotrexate in combination with other disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) or methotrexate alone. 
There may be slightly more side effects when taking methotrexate in combination with other disease‐modifying anti‐rheumatic drugs (DMARDs) than methotrexate alone. Side effects may include stomach problems, liver problems, anaemia or infection. 
In people who never took DMARDs before, 
16 out of 100 stopped taking methotrexate because of harmful effects or no benefit
19 out of 100 (12 to 32) stopped taking methotrexate in combination with another DMARD
In people who did not improve with methotrexate, 
19 out of 100 stopped taking methotrexate because of harmful effects or no benefit
16 out of 100 (9 to 28) stopped taking methotrexate in combination with another DMARD
In people who did not improve with other DMARDs, 
35 out of 100 stopped taking methotrexate because of harmful effects or no benefit
26 out of 100 (14 to 47) stopped taking methotrexate in combination with another DMARD
Overall, 
9 out of 100 people stopped taking methotrexate because of side effects
14 out of 100 (10 to 18) stopped taking methotrexate in combination with another DMARD
 
