Interventions for preventing falls in people after stroke
Review question Which intervention modalities reduce falling post stroke? 
Background Falls are commonly reported and occur in up to 73% of people one year post stroke. Not all falls are serious enough to require medical attention but even non‐serious falls may lead to activity restrictions and people developing a fear of falling. They are a factor for predicting future falls, which may restrict the person's activities of daily living and therefore require attention. This review investigated which methods are effective in preventing falls in people after their stroke, either with haemorrhagic or ischaemic aetiology. 
Search date 3 September 2018 
Study characteristics After searching the literature, we included 14 studies with a total of 1358 participants. We found studies that investigated various interventions for preventing falls: physical exercises; predischarge home visits for hospitalised patients; the provision of single lens distance vision glasses instead of multifocal glasses; a servo‐assistive rollator; and non‐invasive brain stimulation. Included studies conducted their investigations in early to chronic inpatient, outpatient, and community dwelling settings. 
Study funding sources None 
Key results Exercises appear to reduce the rate of falls, but not the number of people falling post stroke. Among the studies that used exercises as an intervention condition, the majority of studies asked participants to solely perform exercises. One study offered exercises together with additional components, such as educational sessions about falls. Another study offered exercises together with a comprehensive risk assessment and subsequent referrals, such as a review by an optometrist or new shoes, leading to a personalised programme for preventing falls. 
Besides exercises, several other interventions aiming to prevent falls post stroke were investigated in the literature. One study administered non‐invasive brain stimulation to people after stroke and the results showed a potential to decrease the number of people falling, but this study needs to be replicated before consideration in clinical practice. There is no evidence at the moment that predischarge home visits, single lens distance vision glasses instead of multifocal glasses or a servo‐assistive rollator reduce the rate of falls or the number of people falling. 
None of the included studies reported serious harm related to the intervention conditions.
In summary: there is little evidence that interventions other than exercises are beneficial for preventing falls in people after stroke. The main reason is that there were only a limited number of studies focusing on people after stroke or that included a stroke subgroup in the study. In addition, studies related to falling do not consistently follow known methodological guidelines, particularly in fall definition and time post stroke. More well‐reported, consensual research with an adequate number of participants might further establish the value of exercises in reducing falling post stroke. 
