Transfusions of white blood cells to treat infections in people with low white blood cell counts or white blood cells that do not function properly 
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence about whether white blood cell transfusions (also called granulocyte transfusions) given to treat infections are safe and reduce the risk of death or severe outcomes due to infection. Our target population was people with a very low white count (neutropenia) or white cells that did not function properly (neutrophil dysfunction). 
Background 
Functioning white blood cells are important for fighting life‐threatening bacterial and fungal infections. For many years some hospital physicians have given white blood cell transfusions to people with infections who have a low white blood count. The demand for white blood cells for transfusion has shown a steady increase since the 1990s mainly as a result of the introduction of a drug called granulocyte colony stimulating factor (G‐CSF), which if given to donors, leads to increased white blood cell numbers in the donor's blood and the collection of a larger dose of white blood cells than was previously possible. 
Study Characteristics 
The evidence is current to February 2016. In this update we identified 10 completed trials that compared giving white blood cell transfusions to treat infection compared to not giving white blood cells to treat infection. One additional trial has not yet been completed. The 10 trials containing a total of 587 participants were conducted between 1975 and 2015. The studies differed in the type of infections they included. Data from three trials were not included in the analyses because participants were included within the trial more than once. Six trials included both children and adults, but results were not reported separately for children and adults. The two newest trials gave G‐CSF to donors, both were stopped early due to lack of recruitment. Six studies reported their funding sources and all were funded by governments or charities. 
Key results 
Giving white blood cell transfusions to treat infection may not affect the risk of death or the number of people who recover from an infection. 
It is unknown whether white blood cell transfusions increase the risk of having a serious adverse event. 
None of the studies reported whether white blood cell transfusions reduced the number of days participants were on therapeutic antibiotics, or whether white blood cell transfusions had an effect on participants' quality of life. 
