PDE5 inhibitors for pulmonary hypertension
Review question: 
We wanted to review whether a group of drugs called PDE5 inhibitors (which may work to open up the vessels in the lung) can help people with pulmonary hypertension (increased pressures in the blood vessels of the lungs). Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question, and found 36 studies. 
Why the review is important: 
Approximately three people in every 1000 have pulmonary hypertension, due to different causes. This can lead to reduced exercise capacity, reduced quality of life, increased hospitalisations, and early death. A group of drugs called PDE5 inhibitors may improve blood circulation in the right heart and lungs. We wanted to make sure that if these drugs are being used, there is evidence of benefit and little or no harm. 
Main findings: 
We included 36 studies with 2999 people. Trials were conducted for 14 weeks on average, with some as long as 12 months. Most trials involved adults, and two trials specifically included children. 
Nineteen trials included those with group 1 pulmonary arterial hypertension (inherited, unknown, due to connective tissue diseases). People who were given PDE5 inhibitors were compared with those not given PDE5 inhibitors. This review shows that when given PDE5 inhibitors, on average people walked 48 meters further in six minutes (8 trials, 880 people). They also improved their functional class (reducing the physical limitations associated with PH), and were less likely to die (high‐certainty evidence). They were also more likely to have side effects, including headache, flushing and muscle aches. 
Five trials included people with pulmonary hypertension due to left‐heart disease. This review shows that when given PDE5 inhibitors, these people were on average able to walk 34 metres further in six minutes (3 trials, 284 people; low‐certainty evidence). However, there was no difference in survival, compared to those who were not given PDE5 inhibitors. Five trials included people with pulmonary hypertension due to lung disease (mostly chronic obstructive pulmonary disease and some idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis). When given PDE5 inhibitors, they were able to walk 27 meters further in six minutes (low‐certainty evidence), but with no difference in survival, compared to those who were not given PDE5 inhibitors. Three trials included people with pulmonary hypertension due to blood clots; there was no significant difference in outcomes for those who used PDE5 inhibitors compared to those who did not. 
