The use of the iron chelator deferiprone in people with thalassaemia who are dependent on blood transfusions 
In thalassaemia sometimes the body cannot produce enough haemoglobin. Regular blood transfusions can manage this, but may lead to excess iron in the body, which, if not removed, may damage major organs. Iron chelation therapy removes excess iron; one common chelator is deferiprone. Questions exist about whether deferiprone is as good and safe as the most widely‐used iron chelator, desferrioxamine. Desferrioxamine is administered by a needle under the skin or into a vein, and was the standard monotherapy for 20 years. 
Seventeen randomised controlled trials compared deferiprone with desferrioxamine. They report little data on death or end organ damage, so we report the effects of therapy using mainly other markers. Removing excess iron was assessed by iron concentration in the blood and liver; heart function; and the amount of iron passed in urine. However, the amount of iron removed with either deferiprone or desferrioxamine was not consistent; one reason being that outcomes were measured differently. This makes it difficult to compare results between trials. 
Adverse events included joint pain, nausea, stomach upsets and low white blood cell count with deferiprone and pain or skin reactions at the injection site and joint pain with desferrioxamine. In one trial, the risk of an adverse event with deferiprone was twice that of the risk with desferrioxamine. Two further trials showed a three‐fold increased risk of an adverse event with combined deferiprone and desferrioxamine therapy compared with desferrioxamine alone. 
We found no evidence to change current recommendations to treat iron overload in thalassaemia with deferiprone when desferrioxamine cannot be used or is inadequate. Intensified desferrioxamine treatment or use of other oral iron chelators (or both of these) remains the established treatment to reverse heart problems due to iron overload. Indeed, the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) recently gave support for deferiprone only to be used as a last resort treatment in patients with thalassaemia, myelodysplasia and sickle cell disease. The danger of raised liver enzymes or a very low white blood cell count with deferiprone means that this treatment should not be used unless close monitoring of full blood counts and liver function is possible. Large trials of chelation therapy with standardised measures of iron stores and end organ damage are needed so valuable trial data can be compared and analysed. 
