Sulfasalazine for ankylosing spondylitis
We conducted a review of the effect of sulfasalazine for people with ankylosing spondylitis. After searching for all relevant studies up to November 2013, we found 11 studies involving 895 people. Our findings are summarised below. 
The review showed that in people with ankylosing spondylitis: 
‐ compared with fake pills, sulfasalazine probably has little or no difference in pain, disease activity, physical function, spinal mobility, patient and physician global assessment; 
‐ damage to the spine as seen on x‐ray or magnetic resonance image was not measured and therefore it is not known whether sulfasalazine slows damage; 
‐ people had side effects such as stomach upsets, skin reactions/rashes and mouth sores; 
‐ more people stopped taking sulfasalazine because of the side effects than when taking fake pills; and 
‐ there is not enough evidence to be certain of the benefits and harms of sulfasalazine for ankylosing spondylitis, and more research is needed. 
What is ankylosing spondylitis and what is sulfasalazine? 
Ankylosing spondylitis is a type of arthritis, usually in the joints and ligaments of the spine. It may also affect the shoulders, hips, or other joints. Pain and stiffness occur and limit movement in the back and in other joints that are affected. 
Key results of this review 
Pain 
‐ People who took sulfasalazine rated their pain to be 3 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100 after 3 to 36 months than those who took placebo (3% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who took sulfasalazine rated their pain to be 47 on a scale of 0 to 100 after 3 to 36 months. 
‐ People who took placebo rated their pain to be 50 on a scale of 0 to 100 after 3 to 36 months. 
Bath ankylosing spondylitis disease activity index (BASDAI) 
This outcome was not measured in the studies.
Bath ankylosing spondylitis function index (BASFI) 
This outcome was not measured in the studies.
Bath ankylosing spondylitis metrology index (BASMI) 
This outcome was not measured in the studies.
Radiographic progress 
This outcome was not measured in the studies.
Total number of withdrawals due to adverse events 
‐ 23 more people taking sulfasalazine withdrew due to adverse events than those taking placebo. 
‐ 13 out of 100 people taking sulfasalazine withdrew due to adverse events.
‐ 9 out of 100 people taking fake pills withdrew due to adverse events.
Serious adverse events 
Only one person out of 469 stopped taking sulfasalazine for serious adverse events.
