Treatments other than medication for people with chronic pain after spinal cord injury
Many people living with spinal cord injury (SCI) have chronic pain. Besides pain medication, other treatment possibilities are commonly offered. This systematic review aims to summarise available evidence on the effectiveness and possible side effects of other forms of treatment. 
We searched electronic databases until March 2011 and found 16 randomised controlled trials with a total of 616 participants. We grouped these studies by type of treatment into eight groups: Eight studies were on brain stimulation, of which five used electronic and three magnetic stimulation. Three studies were on exercise programmes, two on acupuncture and one each on self‐hypnosis, transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) and a cognitive behavioural programme. The included studies used a range of different methods to measure pain and other outcomes. Comparison groups also varied and included sham interventions, waiting lists and other pain treatments. 
For any given type of intervention, only a few studies were found, and they included only small numbers of participants. Often the reported detail was insufficient. The overall quality of the studies was low. For instance, several studies used inappropriate comparison groups such as waiting lists. Consequently, the effectiveness of the treatments is uncertain. An additional search in November 2014 identified more recent studies that will be included in an update of this review. 
For one type of treatment—transcranial direct current stimulation (tDCS)—results from two studies could be combined. The pooled results suggest that tDCS reduced pain in the short term and in the mid term. Also, exercise programmes for chronic shoulder pain provided pain relief. We found no evidence to suggest that repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS), cranial electrotherapy stimulation (CES), acupuncture, self‐hypnosis or TENS is better than the respective control interventions for reducing chronic pain. Regarding outcomes other than pain, such as anxiety, depression or quality of life, as well as long‐lasting side effects, no overall conclusions were possible, given that data were sparse. The included studies do not permit firm conclusions regarding whether treatments other than medication for chronic SCI pain are effective and safe. Trials with greater numbers of participants and improved study quality are needed to determine the effectiveness and safety of such treatments. 
