Ultrasound versus 'clinical touch' for catheter guidance during embryo transfer in women 
Review question 
We wanted to learn whether ultrasound‐guided embryo transfer (UGET) improves pregnancy outcomes compared with clinical touch. The traditional method of embryo transfer, clinical touch relies on the clinician's tactile senses to judge when the transfer catheter is in the correct position. 
Background 
The inability of some women undergoing fertility treatment to achieve a live birth may be due to a number of factors, such as lack of good‐quality embryo/s, problems with the uterus, or the transfer technique itself. This review looks at one aspect of the transfer technique, whether ultrasound guidance improves pregnancy outcomes compared with clinical touch (clinical judgement without any technical assistance). 
Study characteristics 
We found 21 randomised controlled trials that compared UGET with clinical touch in a total of 6218 women. The evidence is current to May 2015. 
Key results 
Live birth/ongoing pregnancies were increased for the ultrasound‐guided group compared with the clinical touch group, based on low‐quality evidence. We estimate that for women with a chance of a live birth/ongoing pregnancy of 23% using clinical touch, this would increase to between 28% and 33% using UGET. Data for live birth should be interpreted carefully, as differences between the studies make drawing a conclusion difficult. The evidence suggests that in studies that used the same brand of transfer catheter in both the ultrasound‐guided and the clinical touch groups, ultrasound guidance was linked to an increase in the chance of a live birth. There was no evidence that the risk of harm using UGET, including miscarriage, ectopic pregnancies, and multiple pregnancies, is any different than when clinical touch is used to guide the embryo transfer. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence for live birth/ongoing pregnancy was low due to poor reporting of study methods and inconsistency in trial results. 
