Subsidising artemisinin‐based combination therapy in drug shops and pharmacies
We conducted a review of the effect of subsidising artemisinin‐based combination therapy (ACT) drugs for malaria. We searched for all relevant studies up to February 2015 and identified four. Our findings are summarised below. 
Background 
Malaria causes ill health and death in Africa, particularly in children under five years of age and poor rural populations. The World Health Organization recommends that people use ACT to treat malaria. ACT drugs are available at shops and pharmacies, but these drugs are expensive and people often choose cheaper, older, less effective drugs instead. The Global Fund and other international organisations have therefore decided to subsidise the cost of ACT drugs so that people can buy them from shops and pharmacies at prices similar to, or lower than, those of the older, less effective drugs. 
What is the effect of delivery programmes that subsidise ACT prices? 
We included four studies. One study looked at the effect of subsidising ACT drugs for children under five years of age and three studies looked at subsidising ACT drugs for people of all ages. All studies were from rural districts in East Africa (Kenya, Uganda and Tanzania). ACT price subsidies were accompanied with activities (such as staff training at shops and pharmacies, community awareness and mass media campaigns) to promote appropriate use of antimalarial drugs in all except one study. In all four studies, the effect of subsidising the drugs was compared to not subsidising the drugs. Price subsidies ranged from 80% to 95% of the actual price; vouchers to households were used in one study. 
The findings from these studies indicate that ACT subsidy programmes:
(i) lead to a substantial increase in the number of children under five years of age who used ACTs when they had a fever (high certainty evidence); 
(ii) lead to a substantial increase in the number of shops that stocked ACTs for children under five years of age (high certainty evidence); we could not draw any conclusion on the effect on the number of shops that stocked ACTs for patients of any age because the quality of evidence was very low; 
(iii) lead to a substantial decrease in the price of ACTs for children under five years of age (high certainty evidence); 
(iv) lead to a substantial increase in the market share of ACTs for children under five years of age (high certainty evidence); and 
