PRO 140 for treatment of people with HIV infection
PRO 140 (a humanized form of the PA14 antibody, a monoclonal CCR5 antibody) is a laboratory made antibody that blocks the CCR5 receptor on CD4 cells. By blocking CCR5, PRO 140 prevents the HIV virus from infecting healthy cells. PRO 140 may be an effective new treatment drug because it has the potential to address the limitations of currently available therapies for HIV‐infected patients. PRO 140 has emerged as an important new therapy and has entered testing. 
We reviewed the efficacy, safety, clinical disease progression and immunologic (CD4 count/percentage) and virologic (plasma HIV RNA viral load) markers of PRO 140 for HIV‐infected patients. We included three randomized controlled trials (RCTs). The evidence is current to April, 2014. These three RCTs were of unclear risk of bias, as the details of methodological items were not adequately reported. All patients in these three studies were adult HIV‐infected patients, PRO 140 was adminstrated subcutaneous or intravenous infusion with different doses. These three studies adressed the immunologic (CD4 count/percentage) and virologic (plasma HIV RNA viral load) markers. There may be potential conflicts of interest in all studies, as some of the authors are current or past employees of Progenics Pharmaceuticals, the producer of PRO 140. 
Our systematic review showed that PRO 140 may offer significant short‐term dose‐dependent HIV‐1 RNA suppression with tolerable side effects. PRO 140 2 mg/kg, 5 mg/kg, 10 mg/kg, 162 mg weekly, 324 mg biweekly, and 324 mg weekly could reduce HIV‐1 RNA levels and demonstrate antiviral response. And PRO 140 5 mg/kg showed greater change in CD4+ cell count on day eight. Headache, lymphadenopathy, diarrhoea, fatigue, hypertension, nasal congestion and pruritus were reported to be the most frequent adverse events. Even though available evidence from the three trials suggests that PRO 140 may be effective, the number of patients in these three studies was very small, and the results of these three studies may be influenced by potential biases. So the quality of the evidence from available RCTs was low. 
PRO 140 has been granted fast‐track approval status by the United States Food and Drug Administration (FDA), but the efficacy of PRO 140 still needs to be proven in large, long‐term high quality RCTs. The three studies reviewed here only evaluated the short‐term (58 or 59 days) efficacy. The long‐term efficacy was not evaluated, and adverse events data were not reported adequately for each group. So any recommendations cannot yet be made for applying this evidence. Whether PRO 140 could be used in clinical practice as first‐line treatment for HIV‐infected patients or not depends on the results of high quality future RCTs. 
