Dietary interventions for multiple sclerosis‐related outcomes
Review question 
We assessed the effects of any dietary intervention for multiple sclerosis (MS) (with the exception of vitamin D, which is the subject of a separate Cochrane Review). We used the evidence from randomized controlled trials which are a type of study whereby people are allocated at random to receive one of the clinical interventions. 
Background 
MS is a disorder where there is damage to the connecting fibres (white matter) in the brain and spinal cord. This can result in a variety of neurological symptoms, including weakness, vision loss, sensory alteration, incoordination, and problems with bowel and bladder. The cause is unknown, but the leading theory is that the body's own immune system plays a role in the disease. Approved treatments for MS work by regulating the immune system. There is interest in whether dietary interventions, such as specific diets or dietary supplements may influence MS. 
Study characteristics 
From our search of the literature, we found 41 full‐text reports of 30 trials, studying a variety of dietary interventions. Eleven trials examined polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), 10 examined a variety of antioxidant supplements, three examined dietary programmes, and six trials examined other dietary supplements. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
Among clinical trials comparing PUFAs to monounsaturated fatty acids (MUFAs), there may be little to no difference in MS relapses or global impression of deterioration. A single trial comparing PUFAs with MUFAs reported no serious adverse events. Among trials comparing one PUFA type to another, there may be little to no difference in MS relapses or disability progression. There was likely no difference in global impression of deterioration or enhancing MS lesions by PUFA type. There may be little to no difference in serious adverse events by PUFA type. Among studies examining antioxidant supplementation, there may be little to no difference in MS relapses or global impression of deterioration. There was very low‐certainty evidence regarding the effect of antioxidant versus placebo on disability worsening and enhancing MS lesions. There may be little to no difference in serious adverse events between antioxidant and placebo. Otherwise, studies of dietary programmes and other dietary supplements were too different to group together for analysis. Many of the trials had problems with their design or implementation that could have affected our confidence in the results. At present, there is insufficient high‐certainty evidence as to whether dietary interventions change the course of MS. 
