Drug treatments and electronic cigarettes for stopping smoking in pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Smoking during pregnancy harms women and infants. However, many women who smoke struggle to stop whilst pregnant. Medication for smoking cessation reduces the intensity of cravings, meaning that people trying to stop smoking are more likely to succeed in the long term. Providing pregnant women who smoke with these treatments could help them to stop smoking and have a positive impact on both their own health and the health of their infants. 
Why is this important? 
Medications commonly used to help people to stop smoking include nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), bupropion, and varenicline. Electronic cigarettes containing nicotine are also used by some who smoke to help avoid smoking. However, the safety and effectiveness of smoking cessation drugs and electronic cigarettes in pregnant women is unknown. We searched for studies looking at how good these aids were at helping pregnant women stop smoking and how safe they were when used during pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 20 May 2019 and identified 11 randomised studies (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) that enrolled a total of 2412 women. Nine studies tested NRT used alongside counselling to stop smoking, whilst the other two studies tested bupropion. 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that NRT combined with behavioural support might help women to stop smoking in later pregnancy more than behavioural support alone. Medication trials often use placebos, that is tablets or patches that look like the drug but do not actually include it, so that each comparison group has equal expectation of success and there is a fairer test of the benefits of the medicine itself. When just the higher‐quality, placebo‐controlled trials were analysed, the evidence suggested that NRT was more effective than placebo NRT. There was no evidence that either nicotine patches or fast‐acting NRT (such as gum or lozenge) was more effective than the other. 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that bupropion may be no more effective than placebo in helping women quit smoking later in pregnancy. We found no trials investigating other smoking cessation pharmacotherapies or electronic cigarettes. 
