Oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid drugs for maintenance of medically‐induced remission in Crohn's disease 
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder that can involve any part of the gastrointestinal tract. It can affect people of any age. When people have active Crohn's disease they experience symptoms such as abdominal pain, diarrhoea and weight loss. When symptoms stop, people are considered to be in remission. Active Crohn's disease can be treated by medical therapy (e.g. drugs such as steroids, immunosuppressives or biologics) or by surgery to removed the diseased portions of the intestine. The goal of medical therapy of Crohn's disease is to induce remission and to maintain this remission for as long as possible. 
What are 5‐aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA) drugs? 
5‐ASA drugs are a group of compounds that are thought to treat Crohn's disease by reducing inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. These drugs are often taken orally (i.e. by mouth). 
What did the researchers investigate? 
We studied whether oral 5‐ASA maintains remission in patients with Crohn's disease and whether it causes any harms (side effects). We searched the medical literature extensively up to 8 June 2016. 
What did the researchers find? 
We found 12 studies that included a total of 2146 participants. Eleven studies including 2014 adult participants compared oral 5‐ASA to a placebo (i.e. inactive pills or tablets). One study including 132 children compared oral 5‐ASA to a placebo. Eleven studies were conducted for 12 months and one study was conducted for 24 months. Seven studies were judged to be of high quality and the other studies were judged to be of unclear quality because insufficient details were reported to allow for a judgement about quality. The studies with insufficient details were generally older studies that were published 20 or more years ago. A combined analysis of eleven studies including 2014 adult participants found no difference between oral 5‐ASA (at daily doses between 1.6 g to 4 g) and placebo in the proportion of participants who remained in remission at 12 months. Similarly, a study including 161 adult participants found no difference between oral 5‐ASA (at a dose of 2 g per day) and placebo in the proportion of participants who remained in remission at 24 months. The study involving children found no difference between oral 5‐ASA (at a daily dose of 50 mg/kg) and placebo in the proportion of participants who remained in remission at 12 months. There does not appear to be an increased risk of side effects in people who take oral 5‐ASA compared to placebo. Common adverse events reported in the studies included diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting, abdominal pain, headache and skin rash. 
