Non‐drug treatments for depression in children and adults who have had a traumatic brain injury 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of non‐drug treatments for depression after traumatic brain injury (TBI), to determine whether these treatments are better than no intervention, or better than drug‐based treatments, at reducing the symptoms or diagnosis of depression. We searched for evidence about the relative effectiveness of different types of treatments, and whether the treatments had any harmful or negative effects. 
Background 
Depression is more common in people who have had a TBI. Depression increases the risk of suicide and is a factor that limits recovery from TBI. There are many non‐drug treatments for depression. This review aimed to determine the effects of non‐drug interventions for people with TBI. 
Search date 
The review authors searched for randomised studies that had been published up to February 2015. 
Study characteristics 
We found six studies, with a total of 334 adult participants. We found no studies that included people younger than 18 years of age. Four studies investigated psychological interventions. One study investigated an exercise intervention, and another investigated repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS). 
Key results 
Three studies compared a psychological therapy (cognitive behaviour therapy or mindfulness‐based cognitive therapy) with a no‐treatment control intervention. When the data for these studies were combined, there was no reliable effect in support of psychological therapy. One study compared cognitive behavioural therapy with another psychological intervention (supportive psychotherapy), and did not find an effect in favour of either intervention. One study compared a supervised exercise programme with exercise as usual, but did not find a effect in favour of either intervention. One study compared rTMS plus an antidepressant medication with the antidepressant medication alone. Because the quality of the evidence was very low, it was not possible to draw the conclusion that the addition of rTMS improved outcomes. Only one study, of rTMS, reported any harmful effects and these were relatively minor and resolved quickly. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was rated very low. All studies were at high risk of bias in some ways, and therefore it was not possible to draw conclusions in support of any intervention. There was a high degree of variability in the main results, which meant we could have little confidence in the findings. Some studies had major methodological flaws. 
Conclusions 
It is not possible to recommend any particular treatment based on the current evidence. The review authors have made some recommendations to improve the quality of the evidence in future studies. 
