Do psychological and social interventions prevent mental health disorders in low‐ and middle‐income countries affected by humanitarian crises? 
Mental health during a humanitarian crisis 
A humanitarian crisis is an event, or series of events, that threaten the health, safety, security or well‐being of a community or large group of people, usually over a wide area. Examples include: wars, famine, and natural disasters such as earthquakes, hurricanes and floods. 
People living through a humanitarian crisis may experience physical and mental distress that make them vulnerable to developing mental health disorders. These include post‐traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety. 
What are psychological and social interventions? 
Psychological interventions of a preventive nature usually offer people support and practical help to develop ways of coping, a sense of hope, and focus on building resilience. Social interventions of a preventive nature usually aim to strengthen social support systems and help people to feel more connected. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to know if psychological and social interventions (psychosocial interventions) could help to stop mental health disorders developing in people living through humanitarian crises in low‐ and middle‐income countries. We were interested in: 
1)·how many people developed a mental health disorder after taking part in an intervention; and 
2) how many people dropped out of a programme or had unwanted effects related to the intervention. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the preventive effects of psychosocial interventions on people's mental health in low‐ and middle‐income countries affected by humanitarian crises. We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the interventions people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of an intervention. 
Search date 
We included evidence published up to February 2020.
What we found 
We found seven prevention studies with a total of 2398 participants. Five studies were in children and adolescents (aged 7 to 18 years), and two were in adults (aged over 18 years). Two studies were done in Nepal, and one study each in Democratic Republic of Congo, Haiti, Syria, Uganda and Sri Lanka. Six different psychosocial interventions were studied. The studies measured symptoms of depression, anxiety and post‐traumatic stress disorder in children and adolescents, and anxiety and depression symptoms in adults, at the beginning of the study, the end of the intervention, and after four weeks and up to four months later. They compared the results with symptoms measured in people on a waiting list to take part in the intervention. 
What are the results of our review? 
None of the studies measured how many people developed a mental disorder after taking part in a psychosocial intervention, and none measured any unwanted effects of the interventions. There may be little to no difference in how many children and adolescents dropped out of an intervention while taking part, compared with being on a waiting list (5 studies). We were uncertain if there was any difference in the number of adults who dropped out (2 studies). In children and adolescents, only very small differences in symptoms of post‐traumatic stress disorder, depression and anxiety were seen at the end of an intervention, compared with being on a waiting list, suggesting no evidence of a difference. However, we are not confident that these results are reliable: the results are likely to change when further evidence is available. In adults, results from one prevention study showed that psychological counselling may lower depression and anxiety symptoms; but this result is from only one study and we are not confident the result is reliable. This result will probably change when more evidence becomes available. 
Conclusions 
We did not find any randomized evidence whether psychosocial interventions can stop mental health disorders developing in people living through humanitarian crises in low‐ to middle‐income countries. We did not find enough reliable evidence about the benefits of these interventions in reducing mental health symptoms. Larger, well‐conducted studies are needed to give more reliable evidence about the short‐ and long‐term effects of psychosocial interventions to prevent mental disorders in people living in low‐ and middle‐income countries affected by humanitarian crises. 
