Topical herbal therapy for treating osteoarthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effects of herbal therapies applied to the skin in people with osteoarthritis. 
The review shows that in people with osteoarthritis: 
Arnica gel probably improves pain and function as well as non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs do; 
Capsicum extract gel probably will not improve pain or function more than placebo; 
Comfrey extract gel probably improves pain more than placebo;
Chinese herbal patches probably improve pain and function slightly more than placebo.
Herbal therapies may cause side effects; however we do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include skin irritations. 
What is osteoarthritis and what is herbal therapy? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints (commonly knee, hip, hands). When joints lose cartilage, bone grows to try to repair the damage. Instead of making things better, however, the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can become misshapen and make the joint painful and limit movement. OA can affect your physical function, particularly your ability to use your joints. 
Herbal medicines are defined as finished, labeled medicinal products that contain as active ingredients aerial or underground parts of plants, other plant material, or combinations thereof, whether in the crude state or as plant preparations (for example oils, tinctures). 
Best estimate of what happens to patients with osteoarthritis who apply Arnica extract gel: 
Arnica gel was compared to ibuprofen (a non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory). 
Pain (higher scores mean more severe pain): people who applied Arnica rated their pain to be 3.8 points lower (10.1 points lower to 2.5 points higher) than people who applied ibuprofen. After 3 weeks of treatment, people who applied Arnica rated their pain to be 40.4 and people who applied ibufrofen rated their pain to be 44.2 on a scale of 0 to 100. 
