Topical antiseptics for chronic suppurative otitis media
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review is to find out whether topical antiseptics are effective compared to placebo or no treatment in treating chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM). The review also looked to see whether one topical antiseptic was more effective than the others. The Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
Due to a lack of trials and the very low certainty of the evidence that is available, the effectiveness of antiseptics in the treatment of CSOM is unclear. Adverse effects were not well reported in the studies. 
What was studied in the review? 
Chronic suppurative otitis media is a long‐term (chronic) swelling and infection of the middle ear, with ear discharge (otorrhoea) through a perforated tympanic membrane (eardrum). The main symptoms are ear discharge and hearing loss. 
Topical antiseptics (antiseptics put directly into the ear as ear drops or as a powder) are sometimes used as a treatment for CSOM. Topical antiseptics kill or stop the growth of the micro‐organisms that may be responsible for the infection. Topical antiseptics can be used on their own or added to other treatments for CSOM, such as antibiotics or ear cleaning (aural toileting). Applying topical antiseptics can cause irritation of the skin within the outer ear, which may cause discomfort, pain or itching. Some antiseptics (such as alcohol) can be toxic to the inner ear (ototoxicity), which means they may cause irreparable hearing loss (sensorineural), dizziness or ringing in the ear (tinnitus). 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found five studies but it was not possible to tell how many participants were included as two studies only reported how many ears were treated. Different types of antiseptics were used: some used ear drops and some used powders. 
Topical antiseptic (boric acid) versus no treatment (with a background treatment of ear cleaning) 
One study (254 children) compared using boric acid in alcohol ear drops with no topical antiseptic treatment. All children had their ears cleaned daily using cotton wool sticks (dry mopping). The very low certainty of the evidence means that it is unclear whether or not treatment with an antiseptic leads to an increase in resolution of ear discharge at four weeks or at three to four months compared with the group who did not receive any topical antiseptic. The study reported that there was no difference between the two treatment groups in hearing or suspected ototoxicity. There was no information for any of the other outcomes. 
Comparison of topical antiseptic agents 
One study (93 participants) compared a single dose of boric acid powder with daily acetic acid ear drops. The very low certainty of the evidence means that it is unclear if boric acid leads to an increase in resolution of ear discharge compared to daily acetic acid drops at four weeks. It was uncertain if one group had more ear discomfort than the other group. There was no information for any of the other outcomes. 
How up to date is the review? 
The evidence is up to date to April 2019.
