Medical treatment for people with primary sclerosing cholangitis
Background 
Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a disease that affects the bile ducts. Bile ducts are tubes that transport the bile produced by liver cells. Primary sclerosing cholangitis is a relatively uncommon disease, with 1 in 10,000 people affected. It is more common among men, and most people receive the diagnosis at between 30 and 50 years of age. Primary sclerosing cholangitis can lead to liver damage, liver failure, and bile duct cancer, and it decreases a person's longevity. Various medical treatments for primary sclerosing cholangitis have been tested. The best way to treat patients with primary sclerosing cholangitis remains unclear. We sought to resolve this issue by searching for studies conducted to explore this topic. We included all randomised clinical trials whose results were reported until February 2017. We included only trials in which participants had not undergone liver transplantation before participating in the trial. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time (direct comparison), we planned to use an advanced method (network meta‐analysis) that would allow comparison of many different individual treatments as reported by research trials. However, because of the nature of the available information, we could not determine whether results of the network meta‐analysis were reliable. So, we used standard Cochrane methods instead. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 22 randomised clinical trials with a total of 2211 participants that met our inclusion criteria. Participants in these trials were randomised to 13 different treatments. In most trials, placebo (dummy treatment) was provided as one of the treatments. Trials applied few restrictions apart from confirmation of primary sclerosing cholangitis, evidence of bile stagnation, which is an early marker of primary sclerosing cholangitis, absence of liver failure, and absence of cancer. However, only 11 trials (706 participants) provided the information that we sought. The remaining trials, which were conducted in people with primary sclerosing cholangitis, compared different treatments but did not report important information on deaths, complications, health‐related quality of life, liver failure, liver transplantation, or cancer. Participants in most of these trials were followed‐up only for three months to three years. Only three trials followed‐up trial participants for longer than three years. 
