Rehabilitation for adults of working age who have a brain injury
Background: Studies show that multi‐disciplinary (MD) rehabilitation is beneficial for patients with brain damage from stroke. Some MD programmes are targeted to working‐age adults who have brain injury following trauma or other causes. These patients tend to be younger than most stroke patients and may have different treatment goals, such as returning to work or parenting. Brain‐injured people can have a variety of difficulties, including problems with physical functions, communication, thought processes, behaviour or emotions. The seriousness of problems can vary from mild to severe. MD rehabilitation addresses one or more of these areas instead of focusing on a single aspect such as physical (motor) function. 
Review question: The authors of this Cochrane review looked for studies of MD rehabilitation in adults, 16 to 65 years of age, with acquired brain injury (ABI) from any cause. 
Study characteristics: Studies eligible for inclusion in this review were controlled trials, in which one group of people received treatment (such as MD rehabilitation) and was compared with a similar group that received a different treatment. We found 19 relevant studies, which involved a total of 3480 people. 
Search date: We searched the medical literature worldwide on 14 September 2015. 
Review methods: We used the Van Tulder system to rate the strength of the evidence as it distinguished better between trials of different quality than the standard GRADE system on criteria that are important in the context of rehabilitation. 
Key results: For mild brain injury, information and advice were usually more appropriate than intensive rehabilitation. As a whole, studies suggest that patients with moderate to severe brain injury who received more intensive rehabilitation showed earlier improvement, and that earlier rehabilitation was better than delayed treatment. Strong evidence supports the provision of cognitive rehabilitation in a therapeutic 'milieu', that is, an environment in which patients receive predominantly group‐based rehabilitation alongside a peer group of others who are facing similar challenges. Trial‐based literature provided little evidence related to other aspects of MD rehabilitation, so the review authors recommend that additional research should be done. Rehabilitation for brain injury is such an individualised and long‐term process that research studies do not necessarily facilitate general conclusions. 
