Co‐bedding of preterm twins to optimize growth and brain development
Review question 
We reviewed evidence on the benefits and harms of co‐bedding stable preterm twins and found six relevant studies. 
Background 
Preterm twins are at high risk for problems in growth and development. Co‐bedding (placement of twins in the same cot or incubator) has been proposed to benefit twins because it simulates the environment that they shared before birth, in which twins have been seen to support each other through a series of observed activities, termed "co‐regulation." These activities have been proposed to promote growth and brain development when they are allowed to continue after birth. Risks of placing twins in the same incubator or cot include caregiver error and infection. 
Study characteristics 
This review found six mostly small studies with some limitations in their methods. All six studies were conducted in the neonatal nursery of a major tertiary hospital. In all studies, researchers enrolled preterm infants of average postmenstrual age of 29 weeks (nearly two and a half months preterm). Some studies enrolled twins only; others enrolled twins and triplets and quadruplets and chose to co‐bed two of the higher‐order multiples considered most stable at the time of enrollment. 
Key results 
Overall, researchers reported no differences between the co‐bedded group and the group receiving care separately in terms of weight gain, episodes of major disturbances in their breathing, heart rate or oxygenation level (apnea, bradycardia, or desaturation episodes), length of hospital stay, and occurrence of infection. Conflicting results were noted in the two included studies that assessed infants' pain response after heel prick. 
Quality of evidence 
Overall quality of evidence was low because of limitations in study methods, small sample sizes giving rise to imprecise results, and inconsistency in study results. We can make no recommendations for or against co‐bedding for stable preterm twins in the neonatal nursery on the basis of evidence gathered in this review. Further research on this topic is needed. 
