Sucrose for analgesia (pain relief) in newborn infants undergoing painful procedures
Review question 
Cochrane reviewers investigated how well sucrose (table sugar) works as a reliever of pain in newborn babies who are having painful procedures (e.g. an injection, or heel lance, or insertion of a needle to obtain a blood sample (venipuncture), or eye examinations). The babies' pain responses (e.g. crying, grimacing) were assessed by scoring systems for pain used by health care professionals to measure the pain that babies are experiencing. In addition, the reviewers wanted to investigate whether the level of pain relief is related to the dose of sucrose, or the method of delivery (e.g. as a solution squirted into the mouth, or on a pacifier (also called a soother or dummy), and whether there are any safety concerns about using sucrose to relieve pain. 
Background 
Although there are ways to manage the pain of surgery, medical illness and major procedures, ways of preventing or reducing pain from minor medical procedures (e.g. heel lance and venipuncture) have, until relatively recently, been lacking. Sucrose has been examined for its calming effects in crying newborns and its pain‐relieving effects for invasive procedures in full‐term and premature newborns. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature widely up to February 2016 for studies that investigated the pain‐relieving effect of sucrose for minor medical procedures in newborn full‐term and premature babies. We included randomised controlled trials only, as these provide the most reliable medical evidence. We identified 74 studies that reported on a total of more than 7000 infants in this Cochrane Review. 
Thirty‐eight studies included full‐term babies only, 31 included premature babies only, and five included both full‐term and premature babies. Heel lance was the painful procedure in 38 studies, and venipuncture in nine; the remaining studies investigated a wide variety of other minor painful procedures. 
