Is magnesium sulfate effective for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) flare‐ups?
Background 
COPD is a long‐standing disease of the lungs that causes airway narrowing. COPD flare‐ups are episodes of worsening symptoms in people diagnosed with COPD, described as exacerbations in this review. Magnesium sulfate is reported to be able to widen the airways to help breathing. Magnesium sulfate can be given as an infusion into the veins or as an inhalation via a device called a nebuliser. Some studies have shown it to be helpful as an add‐on to usual care in people with COPD flare‐ups. Therefore, we wanted to discover whether using magnesium sulfate was better or worse than other alternatives, such as usual care alone or placebo. Placebo is an infusion or inhalation of normal saline (salt water) through a nebuliser.   
Study characteristics  
We included 11 studies involving 762 people with COPD flare‐ups. These studies were funded by local health authorities, researchers or universities where researchers work. Usually, neither the participants nor the people doing the research knew which treatment the participants were getting; although in one study, treatment was known to the people who were doing the research. Studies were done in one or two centres in many countries between 2004 and 2018. The average age of participants ranged from 62 to 76 years. Seven studies tested magnesium infusion, three studies assessed magnesium inhalation, and one study examined both. The evidence in this review is current to 2 August 2021.  
Key results 
People who received magnesium infusion may have fewer admissions to hospital from the emergency room. Seven people with COPD flare‐ups would need to be treated with magnesium infusion to prevent one additional person being admitted to hospital. There was little to no difference in terms of breathing support without intubation (putting a tube into the windpipe to help a person to breathe). None of the participants required breathing support with intubation. Included studies did not report ICU admission or deaths. Only one trial reported on serious adverse events, but no‐one in the study experienced any. Magnesium infusion may shorten the duration of hospital stay and reduce breathlessness. However, we were not clear about its effect on lung function, oxygen concentration in blood or adverse events.  
Magnesium inhalation (nebuliser) had little or no effect on hospital admission or the need for breathing support (with or without intubation) compared to placebo. Nebulised magnesium may reduce ICU admission and improve breathlessness. However, we are not confident of these findings due to small number of participants and study limitations. There is no evidence of a difference for duration of hospital stay, lung function or oxygen saturation in blood. Serious adverse events were not reported. There is no available data for adverse events. One trial reported one death in the placebo group, but we are not confident to draw any conclusion as the trial had very few participants. 
Only one study compared magnesium sulfate inhalation and infusion versus inhaled ipratropium bromide and placebo infusion. We could not identify any differences between the effects of these treatments. 
Limitations of the evidence  
Magnesium infusion may reduce hospital admissions, shorten length of hospital stay and improve breathlessness compared to placebo. We are very uncertain about its effect on the need for breathing support, lung function or blood oxygen concentration because the studies were small. We do not have enough information to assess any effects on serious adverse events or deaths. The effects of magnesium inhalation compared to placebo or magnesium sulfate versus ipratropium bromide are unclear.  
Magnesium sulfate infusion may be useful as an add‐on treatment for COPD flare‐ups. However, we cannot draw conclusions about whether magnesium sulfate inhalation is helpful for use in people with COPD flare‐ups.  
