Prophylactic colony‐stimulating factors to prevent infectious complications in patients with breast cancer undergoing chemotherapy 
Patients with breast cancer receiving chemotherapy have an increased risk of infection mediated through a low number of protective white blood cells (neutropenia). Neutropenia is a common toxicity of many chemotherapy agents and is caused by the suppression of the bone marrow. The first sign of infection is usually a fever, which indicates a potentially life‐threatening condition if it occurs during severe neutropenia (febrile neutropenia (FN)). FN requires hospital care including the administration of intravenous antibiotics and possible delays in the continuation of chemotherapy. Colony‐stimulating factors (CSFs) are drugs administered during chemotherapy in order to prevent or reduce the incidence or duration of FN and neutropenia. This review included eight trials in which 2156 patients with breast cancer had randomly received CSFs or placebo or no treatment during chemotherapy. These trials were carried out between 1995 and 2008. Prophylactic treatment with CSFs significantly reduced the risk of developing FN by 73%. The estimated number of patients needed to be treated with CSFs in order to prevent one event of FN was 12. Although a significant decrease in mortality of all causes during chemotherapy and CSF therapy was noted, there was no reduction in infection‐related mortality. There was no significant effect observed that planned chemotherapy schedules could be better maintained if CSFs were administered or that the number of patients with neutropenia decreased with CSFs. Notably, CSFs significantly reduced the need for hospital care yet frequently caused short‐term adverse effects like bone pain and injection‐site reactions. There were several limitations in this analysis: only a few trials could be included, the number of patients was low in many of these trials, and disease stages and chemotherapy treatments varied considerably. Moreover, the trial authors defined their outcomes differently, making comparisons across studies difficult. Information on the primary and secondary outcomes could not be obtained from all trials and the overall reporting quality was low. Many studies were dated and hence the administration of CSFs did not comply with current recommendations. Overall, CSFs have shown moderate evidence of beneﬁt in the prevention of FN in patients with breast cancer receiving chemotherapy. The evidence that the administration of CSFs could reduce early mortality of all causes was weak and substantiates the need of further studies. There was no reduction in risk of infection‐related mortality with CSF treatment. 
