Oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid for maintenance of surgically‐induced remission in Crohn’s disease 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to understand the effectiveness and safety of 5‐ASA drugs for maintaining remission following surgery in people with Crohn disease. This review is an update of a previously published Cochrane review. 
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's is a chronic disease of the gut. Crohn's changes from periods when sufferers have symptoms (relapse) to periods when the symptoms disappear (remission). Symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhoea and weight loss. People with Crohn's disease may undergo surgery to remove diseased parts of their gut. However, their symptoms may return after a short time. Different drugs can be given to maintain remission, however, there are concerns about possible side effects. 5‐ASA drugs reduce inflammation (pain and swelling) in the gut. We researched whether 5‐ASA can maintain remission in people with Crohn's after the diseased part of their gut has been removed. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to 16 July 2018.
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 14 studies (1867 participants). One study was judged to be of high quality, six studies were of low quality and seven were judged to be unclear as authors reported insufficient information to allow a judgement. People who took 5‐ASA had fewer relapses than people who had no maintenance treatment. At 12 months, 36% (20/55) of participants in the 5‐ASA group relapsed compared to 51% (28/55) in the no treatment control group (1 study, low certainty evidence). Moderate quality evidence from five studies showed that 5‐ASA drugs are superior to placebo (e.g. a sugar pill) for maintaining surgically‐induced remission of Crohn's disease. During a follow‐up period of 12 to 72 months, 36% (131/361) of 5‐ASA participants relapsed compared to 43% (160/369) of placebo participants. The analysis of four studies that compared 5‐ASA medications to purine antimetabolites (i.e. azathioprine or 6‐mercaptopurine ‐ both immunosuppressive drugs) found no difference in the proportion of participants that remained in remission, although the overall quality of evidence was low. At 24 months, 61% (103/170) of 5‐ASA participants relapsed compared to 67% (119/177) of purine antimetabolite participants. People who took high dose 5‐ASA had fewer relapses than those who took lower dose 5‐ASA. At 12 months, 17% (17/101) of the 4 g/day 5‐ASA group relapsed compared to 26% (27/105) of the 2.4 g/day group (1 study, moderate certainty evidence). The analysis of the single small study that compared 5‐ASA and adalimumab (a biologic drug) showed that 5‐ASA was inferior to adalimumab for maintaining surgically‐induced remission of Crohn's disease. At 24 months, 50% (9/18) of 5‐ASA participants relapsed compared to 13% (2/16) in the adalimumab group (very low certainty evidence). The analysis of two studies that compared sulphasalazine to placebo found no difference in relapse rates. After 18 to 36 months, 66% (95/143) of sulphasalazine participants relapsed compared to 71% (110/155) of placebo participants (low certainty evidence). There was no difference in rates of side effects, serious side effects and withdrawal due to side effects when 5‐ASA was compared to placebo. 5‐ASA was safer than purine analogues resulting in less serious side effects and discontinuation of treatment due to side effects. Commonly reported side effects included diarrhoea, nausea, increased liver function tests, pancreatitis and abdominal pain. 
Conclusions 
5‐ASA drugs are superior to placebo for maintaining surgically‐induced remission of Crohn's disease (moderate certainty evidence). Sulphasalazine failed to demonstrate superiority against placebo (very low certainty evidence), and similarly 5‐ASAs failed to demonstrate superiority to no treatment (low certainty evidence). The effectiveness of two different doses of the same 5‐ASA and the effectiveness of 5‐ASA compared to purine antimetabolites (azathioprine or 6‐mercaptopurine) for maintaining surgically‐induced remission of Crohn's disease remains unclear. However, purine analogues lead to more serious side effects and discontinuation due to side effects than 5‐ASA. There is a low certainty that 5‐ASA is inferior to adalimumab for maintaining surgically‐induced remission of CD. There was no evidence of a difference in the occurrence of side effects or withdrawal due to side effects with 5‐ASA formulations when compared with placebo, no treatment or biologics. 
