Effects of long‐acting beta2‐agonists compared with anti‐leukotrienes when added to inhaled corticosteroids? 
Background 
People who continue to experience asthma symptoms despite regular use of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) represent an asthma management challenge. The addition of a long‐acting beta2‐agonist (LABA) and the addition of an oral anti‐leukotriene (LTRA) are two therapeutic options. 
Review question 
What is the best add‐on treatment in adults and children with asthma whose condition is inadequately controlled with ICS alone: LABA or LTRA? 
What evidence did we find? 
From available evidence until December 2012, we found 16 trials involving 6872 adults and two trials involving 336 children contributing to the review. The risk of asthma exacerbations requiring the use of corticosteroids was lower with the combination of LABA + ICS compared with LTRA + ICS—from 13% to 11%. The choice of LTRA (montelukast or zafirlukast), the dose of ICS and the age of patients did not significantly affect the results. The effect appeared stronger in trials of short duration and in those using a single device to administer both ICS and LABA. Serious adverse events were more common with LABA than with LTRA, particularly in adults. The combination of LABA + ICS was superior to LTRA + ICS in terms of lung function and was modestly superior in other indicators of the control of asthma and quality of life. LTRA was found superior in preventing deterioration during exercise. The risk of withdrawal from a trial for any reason was significantly lower with LABA than with LTRA. More patients were satisfied with the combination of LABA + ICS, and fewer changed therapy if they started with LABA instead of LTRA. 
Conclusion 
In adults whose asthma is inadequately controlled with ICS, the addition of LABA to ICS was found to be modestly superior to LTRA + ICS. Although both options appeared safe, evidence suggests that slightly more serious adverse events (SAE) may be seen with LABA than with LTRA, particularly when separate devices are used to administer LABA + ICS. Because only two paediatric trials contributed data to the review, the best adjunct strategy to ICS remains uncertain for children. 
