Preoperative radiotherapy and curative surgery for the management of localised rectal carcinoma 
Background 
Rectal cancer is one of the most common causes of cancer deaths in the western world. Individuals diagnosed with rectal cancer are mainly treated with surgery. However, the risk remains that rectal cancer will recur after surgical treatment. A course of radiotherapy before surgery might reduce the risk of local recurrence because radiotherapy can destroy smaller residual tumours and enhance the effects of surgery. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases on 4 June 2018 for randomised trials (experimental studies where people are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) to determine whether there is any benefit to radiotherapy before surgical treatment for people with rectal cancer in terms of reducing the risk of dying from any cause, the risk of dying from cancer, and the risk of cancer recurring in the pelvis. We considered high‐dose regimen of radiotherapy followed by any type of surgical treatment to remove cancer of the rectum. 
Results 
We found four trials involving 4663 people with operable rectal cancer. Our results suggest that administering short‐course radiotherapy before surgery probably reduces mortality. However, when our analysis was limited to a contemporary type of surgery (total mesorectal excision), there was no evidence of a difference between the group receiving radiotherapy before surgery and the group receiving surgery alone. There may be little or no difference between groups in cancer‐related death when short‐course radiotherapy is used. 
We found moderate quality evidence that using preoperative radiotherapy compared to surgery alone may provide substantial benefit in terms of reduction of local recurrence of the cancer. 
There was little or no effect of preoperative radiotherapy on curative resection and sphincter‐sparing surgery. 
We found higher rates of sepsis, surgical complications, and sexual complications in participants treated with radiotherapy compared to those who received only surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall the studies were well‐designed. We judged the quality of the evidence as moderate for cancer recurrence and overall mortality, as there were serious concerns regarding the applicability of the findings to the contemporary management of rectal cancer. 
We further downgraded the quality of the evidence for the remaining outcomes due to imprecise results and/or variations between the trials regarding the criteria used to define rectal cancer, the stage of participants, preoperative imaging used for assessing stage, the type of surgery performed, the radiation dose and fractioning, the time between radiotherapy and surgery, and the use of adjuvant or postoperative therapy. 
