Mirtazapine for treating fibromyalgia in adults
Bottom line 
Mirtazapine at 15 mg to 45 mg daily is unlikely to substantially reduce pain in people with fibromyalgia. Mirtazapine can cause drowsiness, weight gain, and liver damage. A small number of people may experience some improvement (moderate pain relief, better sleep) without side effects from mirtazapine, but that cannot be predicted. The off‐label use of mirtazapine can be considered, if established treatment options have failed. 
Background 
People with fibromyalgia often have chronic (longer than 3 months) widespread pain, and problems with sleeping, thinking, exhaustion, and poor quality of life. There is no cure for fibromyalgia. Treatments aim to improve symptoms (pain, sleep problems, fatigue) and quality of life. 
Serotonin and noradrenaline are chemicals produced by the human body and are involved in pain, sleep, and mood. Low serotonin levels have been found in people with fibromyalgia. The antidepressant, mirtazapine, increases serotonin and noradrenaline levels in the brain. 
Study characteristics 
In July 2018 we searched for clinical trials where mirtazapine was used to treat fibromyalgia in adults. We found three studies with 606 participants. Studies were seven to 13 weeks long. They compared mirtazapine 15 mg to 45 mg daily against a fake medication (placebo). 
Key results 
There was no difference between mirtazapine and placebo for any primary outcome: mirtazapine and placebo reduced pain by 50% in two of 10 people (low‐quality evidence). Only one single serious adverse event was available for evaluation of safety (very low‐quality evidence). Three of 10 participants with mirtazapine and two of 10 participants with placebo dropped out of the trial due to side effects (low‐quality evidence). 
Mirtazapine reduced pain by 30% or more in five out of 10 people, compared with three out of 10 with placebo (low‐quality evidence). It was also better for average pain intensity (low‐quality evidence) and sleep problems (low‐quality evidence). Mirtazapine was not better than placebo in reducing fatigue, depression, or improving health‐related quality of life (low‐quality evidence). Mirtazapine and placebo were no different in how many participants experienced a side effect (low‐quality evidence). People dropped out at the same rate with mirtazapine and placebo or because they felt the drug did not work (low‐quality evidence). For some side effects, mirtazapine was worse than placebo. This was true for drowsiness (4 out of 10 with mirtazapine, 1 out of 10 with placebo), weight gain (2 out of 10 with mirtazapine, 0 out of 10 with placebo), and high liver enzymes (1 out of 10 with mirtazapine, 0 out of 10 with placebo) (low‐quality evidence). 
