Anti‐inflammatory drugs for relief of perineal pain after childbirth
What is the issue? 
Following childbirth, many women experience pain in the perineum, an area between the anus and vagina. This Cochrane Review asked if this pain can be reduced by one dose of a non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID), such as aspirin or ibuprofen. 
Why is this important? 
The pain some women experience in the perineum after childbirth can be particularly acute if the perineum tears during the birth, or needs to be cut (known as an episiotomy). Even a woman without tearing or surgery often experiences discomfort in her perineum, which can affect her mobility as well as her ability to care for her baby. This review is part of a series of reviews on the effectiveness of different drugs for pain relief for perineal pain immediately after birth. We are looking specifically at NSAIDs, such as aspirin and ibuprofen. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found 35 studies with 5136 women that examined 16 different NSAIDs (aspirin, ibuprofen, etc.). We included studies up to 9 December 2019. The studies we found only included women who had trauma of the perineum and who were not breastfeeding. Studies were conducted between 1967 and 2013 and had few women in them. 
The studies showed that a single dose of a NSAID may provide greater pain relief at four hours (low‐certainty evidence) after taking the drug when compared to a placebo (dummy pill) or no treatment in non‐breastfeeding women who had sustained perineal trauma during childbirth. We are uncertain if there is any difference between NSAID and placebo in achieving adequate pain relief at six hours. 
Women who received a single dose of NSAID are probably less likely to need additional pain relief at four hours (moderate‐certainty evidence) after taking the drug compared to women who received placebo or no treatment. We are uncertain if there is any difference between NSAIDs and placebo for women needing additional pain relief at six hours (very low‐certainty evidence). Not all of the studies assessed adverse effects of the drugs, but some studies reported maternal adverse effects such as drowsiness, headache, weakness, nausea, gastric discomfort. The evidence is very uncertain about the difference in maternal adverse effects between NSAIDs and placebo at six hours after administration (very low‐certainty evidence). One small study (90 women) reported that there were no maternal adverse effects at four hours after administration. None of the studies measured possible adverse effects on the baby. 
A NSAID may also be better than paracetamol in providing pain relief at four hours after administration. We are uncertain if there is any difference between NSAID and paracetamol in achieving adequate pain relief at six hours or in the number of women who need additional pain relief at four hours after administration. Women who receive NSAID may be less likely to need additional pain relief at six hours compared to women who received paracetamol. One study reported that no maternal adverse effects were observed at four hours (210 women). Three small studies reported maternal adverse effects at six hours after administration but we are uncertain if there is any difference between the groups. Adverse effects on the baby were not reported in any of the included studies and all studies excluded women who were breastfeeding. 
