Antiviral medication for the treatment of infectious mononucleosis (glandular fever)
Review question 
We investigated the benefits and side effects of antiviral treatment for people with glandular fever compared with fake treatment or standard care. 
Background 
Glandular fever is usually caused by the Epstein Barr virus. Although not generally serious, it can lead to significant time off school or work due to intense tiredness. Rarely, it can lead to potentially life‐threatening complications. Treating people with complications is costly both in terms of healthcare costs and lost productivity. Reducing complications would benefit patient care, so it is important to identify effective treatments for people with glandular fever. 
Antiviral medications are expensive, may cause side effects and can lead to antiviral resistance. Good justification is needed to ensure best outcomes when antivirals are used. There is no agreement about whether antivirals are effective for treating people with glandular fever. 
Search date 
April 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included seven studies that involved a total of 333 people; two were conducted in Europe and five in the USA. Three studies took place in hospitals, one each in a student health centre and a children's clinic, but the setting was unclear in two studies. Three different antiviral drugs were studied: acyclovir, valomaciclovir and valacyclovir, as well as dosage, comparison treatment (fake or no treatment), and how long people were treated and followed up. 
Study funding 
One study did not report study funding, but the other six studies appeared to have some industry support. None declared conflicts of interest, but one included two authors from a drug company. 
Key results 
We wanted to investigate several outcomes: time to recovery; medication side effects; duration of: fever, sore throat, swollen lymph nodes, enlarged spleen and liver; development of glandular fever complications; how long it took to eliminate the virus from the throat; health‐related quality of life; days off school or work; and economic outcomes. 
We found improvements in participants who received antiviral for two outcomes.
There was an improvement of five days in time taken to recover among people who received antiviral treatment, but this result was not very precise, and the way it was measured was not clearly defined. Other studies show that glandular fever symptoms can take a month or more to get better, and tiredness may occur in about one in every 10 of patients six months later. This improvement may be of limited clinical significance. 
Most studies that examined adverse effects did not find any differences between people who received antivirals and those who did not. 
