We identified a total of three trials including 295 participants, of whom 148 were randomly chosen to receive primary closure and the remaining patients had T‐tube drainage after laparoscopic exploration of common bile duct. All three trials were at high risk of bias (risk of underestimating or overestimating the benefits and harms of the intervention). There were no deaths in either group. There was no significant difference in the serious complication rate (approximately 97 complications per 1000 patients in the T‐tube group versus 61 complications per 1000 participants in the primary closure group) or in the proportion of participants who developed serious complications (11.3% in the T‐tube group versus 6.2% in the primary closure group). Although the complication rates in the T‐tube group appear to be twice as high as those in the primary closure group, there is a possibility that this was not a true observation but rather a difference that occurred by chance (similar to there being one chance in eight of flipping a coin and having it come up heads or tails four times in a row). For this reason, we cannot be sufficiently confident scientifically that these differences were not just due to chance and that is the reason why we have stated that there was no 'significant' difference. Of course, if such a difference truly exists, it would be clinically important. None of the trials reported the quality of life of the participants. The average operating time was significantly longer in the T‐tube group than in the primary closure group (by about 20 minutes). The average hospital stay was significantly longer in the T‐tube group than in the primary closure group (by about three days). Participants returned to work significantly later in the T‐tube group than primary closure group (by about eight days). Use of T‐tube appears to increase the cost without providing any benefit to the patients. Further randomised trials with low risk of bias (low chance of arriving at wrong conclusions because of prejudice by healthcare providers, researchers, or patients) with longer follow‐up period are necessary. Until the results from such trials are available, we discourage the routine use of T‐tube after laparoscopic common bile duct exploration. 