Antibody induction versus placebo, no induction, or another type of antibody induction for liver transplant recipients 
Background  Antibodies against T‐cells are used to induce immunosuppression after liver transplantation. These antibodies are intended to reduce rejection of the transplanted liver and are given within the first two weeks after transplantation. Furthermore, these antibodies may allow for delayed introduction of calcineurin inhibitors to protect kidney function. 
Different types of antibodies have been used: interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists (BT563, daclizumab, or basiliximab), monoclonal antibodies specific for the CD3 receptor (muromonab‐CD3) or the CD52 surface protein (alemtuzumab), or polyclonal antibodies of horse or rabbit (antithymocyte globulin (ATG) or antilymphocyte globulin (ALG)). The benefits and harms of these antibodies are unclear. 
This systematic review aimed to evaluate the use of antibodies against T‐cells after liver transplantation. The question is whether T‐cell antibody induction has a role after liver transplantation, and which antibody works best with the least number of adverse events. 
Aim  We wanted to discover whether antibody induction therapy was better or worse than therapy without T‐cell specific antibodies for induction of immunosuppression after liver transplantation, and whether one type of antibody is better than another type of antibody. We systematically searched medical databases and found 19 randomised clinical trials including 25 comparisons that investigated the use of different types of T‐cell specific antibodies in 2067 patients after they had received their liver transplant. All of these trials had high risk of bias (that is, risk of overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms). We compared randomised clinical trials assessing T‐cell specific antibody induction versus no T‐cell specific antibody induction or versus another type of T‐cell specific antibody induction. These trials assessed interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists versus no antibody induction (1454 patients, 10 trials); monoclonal T‐cell specific antibody versus no antibody induction (398 patients, five trials); polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody versus no T‐cell specific antibody induction (145 patients, three trials); interleukin‐2 receptor antagonist versus monoclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction (87 patients, one trial); and interleukin‐2 receptor antagonist versus polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction (112 patients, two trials). 
