Enhanced recovery protocols in people undergoing major surgeries of food pipe (oesophagus), stomach, liver and pancreas 
Review question 
Are enhanced recovery protocols beneficial or harmful when compared to standard surgery in people undergoing major surgeries of food pipe (oesophagus), stomach, liver and pancreas? 
Background 
'Fast‐track surgery' or 'enhanced recovery protocol' or 'fast‐track rehabilitation' incorporates one or more of the following components: patient education before surgery, pain relief during and after surgery, early mobilisation after surgery, nutritional supplements, and feeding through the mouth or through a tube introduced into the gut through the nose or through the tummy wall rather than by drip to quicken the recovery after surgery. The benefits and harms of using an enhanced recovery protocol in people undergoing major surgeries of oesophagus, stomach, liver and pancreas are not known. We sought to resolve this issue by searching for existing studies on the topic. We included all studies whose results were reported until 26 March 2015. 
Study characteristics 
Ten studies met the inclusion criteria for the review, and nine studies provided information for the review. A total of 1014 participants received an enhanced recovery protocol (499 participants) or standard care (515 participants) in the nine trials. The decision on whether a participant received an enhanced recovery protocol or standard care was made using methods similar to the toss of a coin, ensuring that the participants in the two groups were similar. One additional trial (including 33 participants) also performed the same comparison but did not provide any information for this review. Most of the trials included persons who were healthy in aspects other than the condition requiring surgery. Eight trials incorporated more than one component of the enhanced recovery protocol. 
Key results 
None of the trials reported long‐term deaths, medium‐term health‐related quality of life (three months to one year), time to return to normal activity, or time to return to work. The difference between enhanced recovery protocols and standard care was imprecise for short‐term deaths, percentage of people with major complications, total number of major complications, health‐related quality of life and hospital readmissions. Enhanced recovery protocols had a lower percentage of people with minor complications, fewer minor complications, shorter length of hospital stay (approximately two days shorter hospital stay per person) and lower costs (cost savings of approximately USD 6300 per person) compared to standard care. Because the trials were of poor quality and did not include clinically important end points, future high quality studies are needed in this field. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was low or very low. As a result, there is a lot of uncertainty regarding the results. 
