Treatments to prevent and treat thinning of bones and prevent fractures caused by corticosteroids in Duchenne muscular dystrophy 
Review question 
What are the effects of treatments to prevent or treat thinning of bones (osteoporosis) and prevent fragile bones from breaking (fragility fractures) in adults and children with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD) who are taking long‐term corticosteroids? 
Background 
DMD is an inherited condition, affecting about one in 3500 to one in 6000 newborn boys. DMD causes muscle weakness that becomes more severe with age. Muscle weakness is widespread, affecting movement, the digestive system, breathing, and the heart. The pattern of weakness mainly affects muscles near the trunk, around the shoulders, and at the hips. If untreated, DMD leads to death in the late teens from breathing or heart complications. A child with DMD often shows the first signs of this disease before starting school. If untreated, he will lose the ability to walk by the age of 13 years and need to use a wheelchair. There is no cure for DMD, but medicines called corticosteroids slow muscle damage and enable boys with DMD to walk for longer. Boys with DMD also tend to have weak bones because of their weak muscles and reduced mobility. 
Corticosteroids cause osteoporosis (thinning of the bones), which makes the bones more fragile and liable to fracture (break). Therapies, such as vitamin D and calcium supplements, more calcium in the diet, medicines called bisphosphonates, testosterone, and weight‐bearing exercise, might be able to strengthen bone to prevent and treat osteoporosis and prevent fractures in people with DMD who are taking corticosteroids. Investigators use bone density as a measure of how strong the bone is and to measure the effects of therapies to prevent and treat osteoporosis. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature comprehensively, finding two completed trials. Only brief reports (abstracts) of these trials are available. The participants were children aged from five to 15 years with DMD who were able to walk and not able to walk. The treatments were risedronate versus no treatment in one trial (with 13 participants) and whole‐body vibration versus a placebo (inactive) device in the other (with 21 participants). 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
We found two completed studies that were potentially eligible for this review, for which full results have not yet been published, and two studies ongoing at the time of the search. These studies are looking at the effects of whole‐body vibration (two studies), risedronate, and zoledronic acid. Both completed trials, presented as abstracts only, reported an improvement in bone mineral density in children who received active treatment and no improvement in children in the control (placebo or no treatment) groups. However, the reports did not report results for the comparison of treatment versus control groups, which means that it is not possible to draw conclusions about the effectiveness of either treatment. All children tolerated whole‐body vibration treatment. Neither study provided information on adverse events. 
We know of no evidence from randomised clinical trials to guide use of treatments to prevent or treat osteoporosis and prevent fragility fractures in people with DMD taking corticosteroids. 
Searches are current to September 2016.
