Transcranial magnetic stimulation for treatment of epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder that appears in various forms. Many individuals with epilepsy have satisfactory seizure control with the use of antiepileptic medications. Yet, nearly a third of people with epilepsy suffer from frequent and uncontrolled seizures despite the use of medication, or are unable to tolerate the side effects of those medications. Surgery is an option for some people with uncontrolled seizures, but it is invasive and not suitable for all individuals. As a result, there remains a substantial unmet need for safe, effective therapies for these harder‐to‐treat epilepsies. 
Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is one of several newer treatments that can potentially offer people with epilepsy a safe and non‐invasive alternative to surgery. Long used as a research tool to study brain function, TMS has also been studied as a possible treatment for a number of nervous system conditions, including epilepsy. This non‐surgical and painless treatment uses induced magnetic currents to regulate brain function in order to reduce the tendency to have seizures. 
Objective 
We aimed in this review to evaluate the evidence for the use of repetitive transcranial magnetic stimulation (rTMS) in individuals with epilepsy compared with other available treatments in reducing seizure frequency, improving quality of life, reducing epileptiform discharges (abnormalities on brain electrographic testing that suggest underlying brain disturbance or seizure tendency), antiepileptic medication use, and side effects. 
Methods 
The latest search for trials was 2 June 2020. We assessed the evidence from eight randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) involving a total of 241 participants comparing rTMS to control treatments (sham treatment, antiepileptic medication, or low‐frequency rTMS). 
Results 
Some of the included trials showed that rTMS reduces the number of seizures individuals had compared to before the therapy, but other trials did not show any significant differences in seizure frequency. Four trials showed a reduction in epileptiform discharges following rTMS treatment. One study measured changes in quality of life in seven participants; although not statistically analysed they found that a greater proportion of study participants reported increased quality of life scores with active treatments compared to the sham treatment. One trial reported an increase in antiepileptic medication in a single individual but they had received the control treatment. Side effects were uncommon; the most frequently reported side effect was headache (and the majority of individuals completed the treatment with rTMS). However, one study showed an increase in seizure frequency in two individuals: one during the rTMS treatment (who discontinued the treatment early), and one weeks after the treatment. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, we judged the certainty of the evidence for the main outcome of reduction in seizure frequency to be low due to unclear information in the published papers about study design and the unclear presentation of results. One included study commented on quality of life, but involved only seven participants. 
The evidence is current to June 2020.
