Supportive interventions for improving dietary intake in nutritionally vulnerable groups 
Review question 
Are supportive interventions for improving dietary intake in nutritionally vulnerable groups (malnourished or nutritionally at‐risk individuals) effective? 
Background 
Serving meals in a dining room, or the use of assistance to help feed people in need and other similar methods are often recommended to help especially sick and elderly people who have lost or are likely to lose weight (nutritionally vulnerable groups). Such supportive interventions are implemented in the health care in many countries but their effects are not well investigated. 
Study characteristics 
We included 41 randomised controlled studies (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with a total of 10,681 people in our review. There were five different interventions which we call 'supportive interventions': changes to the organisation of nutritional care (13 studies, 3456 people), changes to the feeding environment (5 studies, 351 people), modification of the meal profile or pattern (12 studies, 649 people), additional supplementation of meals (10 studies, 6022 people) and home meal delivery systems (1 study, 203 people). Monitoring participants over time (follow‐up) ranged from ‘duration of hospital stay’ to 12 months. The comparator groups received 'usual' care. More than half of all participants took part in studies investigating the additional supplementation of meals (for example a protein‐energy oral nutritional supplement in addition to the usual diet). 
Key results 
It is possible that supportive interventions for enhancing dietary intake in nutritionally vulnerable groups reduce death from any cause (approximately 23 fewer cases of death per 1000 participants in favour of supportive interventions). However, this has to be confirmed by more evidence from high‐quality randomised controlled studies. The number of participants experiencing any medical complication did not differ substantially between the supportive interventions and the comparator groups. The same was found for health‐related quality of life (which is physical, mental, emotional and social health attributed to health), patient satisfaction, nutritional or energy intake and days spent in hospital. Economic costs were not well investigated. 
Only three studies reported on side effects, describing intolerance to the nutritional supplement (such as diarrhoea or vomiting in 5 of 34 participants) and discontinuation of oral nutritional supplements because of refusal or dislike of taste (567 of 2017 participants). 
After analysing 15 studies in 1945 participants we found a beneficial effect of supportive interventions compared with comparators on weight: on average people in the supportive interventions groups increased their weight 0.6 kg more than people in the comparator groups. 
This evidence is up to date as of September 2016.
Quality of evidence 
The overall quality of evidence ranged between moderate to very low, mainly because for most of our outcomes there was only a small number of studies and participants to achieve reliable information, or because risk of bias made results uncertain. However, if some randomised controlled studies with low risk of bias for our patient‐important outcomes and a good number of participants were performed, this review could quickly provide good guidance for better health care. 
