Are asthma self‐management interventions effective when delivered in schools for children, and how should they be delivered? 
Background to the question  
Asthma is a common condition among children. Schools are potential sites for developing self‐management skills, but evidence that school‐based interventions improve asthma control has not been reviewed systematically. 
Review question  
We sought to address two questions.
• Which parts of school‐based asthma self‐management interventions are more likely to make these interventions successful? 
• What effect do interventions have on children's asthma control, school attendance, and attendance at GP and hospital settings? 
Study characteristics  
We included 55 studies. Thirty three of these studies helped us to gain a better understanding of the best way to deliver an asthma self‐management intervention. Thirty three studies helped us to determine whether these interventions are successful in improving children's health and well‐being. Eleven studies contributed to both. 
Key results  
We included 23 studies in quantitative models measuring children's asthma outcomes (an outcome is something you can measure to find out if an intervention worked). Results show that school‐based self‐management interventions could improve outcomes such as hospitalisations, emergency department visits, and health‐related quality of life. Fewer studies reported improved unplanned medical visits or reduced numbers of days on which children could not do their normal activities. Interventions did not reduce school absences, symptoms, or reliever medication use. The more effective interventions were based on theories about how the intervention might work. Researchers found that including parents in the intervention, making sure children were happy with the intervention, and running the intervention during school hours helped increase fidelity. 
Certainty of the evidence  
Studies that measured whether an intervention worked were usually well designed; however sometimes they were difficult to carry out, and some may not have measured outcomes accurately. Reviewers found that some of the studies conducted to understand how an intervention should be delivered were at risk of bias, and certainty of the evidence was generally lower for these studies. 
Take‐home message  
Evidence suggests that school‐based self‐management interventions can help children with asthma and can reduce hospital admissions and trips to the emergency department. Study findings suggest that interventions that were based on a theory about how an intervention can be planned and delivered could prove useful in improving children's outcomes, reaching large numbers of children, and keeping dropout rates low, and indicate that those designing interventions should consider factors such as including parents. 
This review is current to August 2017.
