Yoga for women with a diagnosis of breast cancer
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer among women worldwide. Although the number of women who survive breast cancer is increasing, those women often suffer from psychological or physical problems. We wanted to find out whether yoga can improve quality of life, mental health and symptoms related to cancer in women with a diagnosis of breast cancer. We included all forms of yoga but excluded multi‐modal interventions such as mindfulness‐based stress reduction. 
Why does it matter? 
Many women with a diagnosis of breast cancer try yoga as a means of coping with their symptoms. Thus, it is important to find out whether yoga can really help these women. It is also important to find out whether any risks are associated with practising yoga. 
What did we find? 
We found 24 studies that involved 2166 women. Our evidence is current to January 2016. We found that women in 11 studies had completed surgery, chemotherapy and radiotherapy; women in three studies were currently undergoing chemotherapy; and women in five studies were currently undergoing radiotherapy. Women in the remaining five studies were either undergoing treatment or were not. Studies used a variety of questionnaires to assess quality of life, depression, fatigue and/or sleep disturbances. 
We found that yoga was more effective than no therapy in improving quality of life and reducing fatigue and sleep disturbances. We also found that yoga was better for reducing depression, anxiety and fatigue in women when compared with psychosocial or educational interventions such as counselling. We are fairly certain that these observed results are probably true. Yoga might be as effective as exercise in improving quality of life and reducing fatigue; we do not have enough data to be sure. Studies have poorly reported risks of yoga. However, we found no evidence of serious risks of yoga among women with a diagnosis of breast cancer. No studies have assessed effects of yoga in women given a diagnosis of breast cancer more than five years ago. 
