Surgery versus thrombolysis for the initial management of acute limb ischaemia
Background 
Thrombolysis involves dissolving a blood clot by injecting a chemical agent at the site of the clot. It can be used as an alternative to surgery for managing sudden severely reduced blood flow (acute ischaemia) in the leg. A blood clot (thrombosis) can form in a leg blood vessel that shows severe narrowing (stenosis) in a natural artery or a bypass graft, or it can travel into the leg arteries after forming elsewhere, when it is called an embolus. Major complications of thrombolysis are bleeding and stroke. 
Study characteristics and key results 
Authors of the review identified five controlled trials with a total of 1292 participants who needed immediate care for reduced blood flow in the leg(s) (current until 7 May 2018). Participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups for initial treatment: (1) non‐surgical thrombolysis, or (2) surgery. The specific agents used to break up clots (thrombolytic agents) were called recombinant tissue plasminogen activator and urokinase. The included studies provided no clear evidence about which treatment ‐ thrombolysis or surgery ‐ was a better option for preventing limb amputation (limb salvage) and no clear evidence about which treatment was better for preventing death or improving amputation rates within one month, six months, or one year after initial treatment. Evidence for these three outcomes at one month was rated between low and very low quality. No conclusion can be made about which treatment was better for keeping vessels unblocked after treatment (vessel patency) because this outcome was not well reported. More major complications, including bleeding (haemorrhage) and continued ischaemia or blockage (distal embolisation), were reported in the group receiving thrombolysis. There was no difference in the occurrence of stroke at one month between the two treatment groups. Although people receiving initial thrombolysis had increased risk of some complications, they showed greater reduction in the level of intervention required compared with that predicted before intervention. The higher risks of complications with thrombolysis have to be weighted against individual risks in surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was generally low. We downgraded the quality owing to risk of bias. Bias is a way to describe how researchers, clinicians, or participants might influence results unintentionally. Blinding is a method used to prevent people involved in the trial from knowing what treatment group a participant was in and reducing measurement bias. None of the studies included in this review used methods to stop participants or researchers or outcome assessors from knowing what treatment they were assigned to. Also, there was uncertainty about the true effect of each treatment type. Results show wide differences in outcome measures (effects) between studies (heterogeneity). For example, following surgical treatment, one‐year mortality ranged from 9.8% to 42%. Such a wide range in percentages may indicate that the studies compared were quite different. In addition, both selection criteria (duration of treatment and severity of ischaemia) and method of thrombolysis (agent, dose, and duration) varied between studies, making comparison more difficult. 
