Antidepressants for insomnia
Why is this review important? 
Insomnia (having difficulty falling or staying asleep) is common, approximately one in five people report sleep problems in the preceeding year. Insomnia can cause daytime fatigue, distress, impairment of daytime functioning and reduced quality of life. It is associated with increased mental health problems, drug and alcohol abuse, and increased healthcare use. Management depends on the duration and nature of the sleep problem. It may involve: treating coexisting medical problems; providing advice on sleep habits and lifestyle (known as sleep hygiene); medicines and psychological therapies such as cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT, which is a talking therapy). 
Medicines called hypnotics (for example, temazepam and 'Z' drugs) are most commonly used to treat insomnia and are known to help sleep, but can have problems such as tolerance (needing to take more of the medicine to get the same effect) and dependence (physical or mental problems if the medicine is stopped). Guidelines recommend only short‐term use of hypnotics (two to four weeks). However, millions of people worldwide take long‐term hypnotic medicines. 
Antidepressants are widely prescribed for insomnia despite not being licensed for this use, and uncertain evidence for their effectiveness. This may be because of the concerns regarding hypnotic medicines. Psychological treatments such as CBT are known to help insomnia, but availability is limited. Thus, alternative medicines, such as antidepressants (used to treat depression) and antihistamines (used to treat allergies), are sometimes tried. Assessing the evidence for the unlicensed use of these medicines is important. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
People with sleep problems and their doctors will be interested in this review to better understand the research evidence and enable informed decision‐making regarding using antidepressants for insomnia. 
What questions did this review aim to answer? 
The aim was to find out how well antidepressants work in treating insomnia in adults, how safe they are and if they have any side effects. 
