Are non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory medicines known as leukotriene receptor antagonists helpful and safe for eczema? 
Review question 
We wanted to see if anti‐inflammatory leukotriene receptor antagonists (LTRAs) reduced symptoms or improved quality of life in adults and children with established eczema; if they are safe; and whether they could be recommended as an effective alternative eczema treatment. We included studies that compared LTRAs with other treatments alone, such as topical corticosteroids (anti‐inflammatory steroid (synthetic hormone) medications), or with placebo (an identical but inactive treatment). 
Background 
Eczema, also called 'atopic eczema' and 'dermatitis', is a common dry skin condition. Eczema can be mild, moderate, or severe depending on how itchy or red the skin is, how much skin is affected, and its impact on daily life. Eczema is sometimes linked to a group of conditions, including asthma. Corticosteroids are a commonly used treatment, but long‐term treatment can produce unwanted side effects, such as skin thinning. LTRAs have been shown to improve asthma symptoms, and their use in eczema would reduce the amount of steroids used. LTRAs are not currently given for eczema, and whether they are effective for this condition is uncertain. 
Study characteristics 
This evidence is current to September 2017. We found five studies with a total of 202 participants (both genders). All included participants had moderate‐to‐severe eczema diagnosed by a specialist doctor. The studies lasted four to eight weeks. The study setting was unclear in two studies, multicentre in two studies, and single centre in one study; the studies were conducted in Europe and Bangladesh. All studies used the LTRA montelukast, at a dose of either 5 mg or 10 mg. Only one study included children (31 participants, age 6 years and older). The age range for the other four studies was 16 to 70 years. LTRA treatment was compared with placebo or conventional treatment, which includes currently used eczema treatments, such as steroid creams. Varied scoring systems were used to calculate the effect of the treatments on participants' eczema. Two included studies were funded by the company that produces montelukast. 
Key results 
Limited available data meant we were unable to draw firm conclusions on the effectiveness of LTRA in eczema. Like other reviews on this topic, this review is unlikely to change how eczema is treated because there is no convincing evidence that montelukast, the only LTRA that could be assessed, is helpful for eczema. 
We found no evidence of a difference between montelukast and placebo in terms of improving eczema disease severity (low‐quality evidence). When montelukast was compared with conventional treatment, participants using montelukast in one study saw an improvement in disease severity, but no difference was observed in another study. We are uncertain about these results because the quality of the evidence was very low. 
None of the studies looked at long‐term eczema control, moisturiser (emollients) use, or quality of life. 
We found no evidence that montelukast lessened itching or reduced the need for steroid creams during treatment when compared to placebo (low‐quality evidence). The studies comparing montelukast with conventional treatments did not assess these outcomes. 
