Angioplasty versus angioplasty plus stenting for lesions of the superficial femoral artery 
Intermittent claudication is pain in the leg that is brought on by walking and which is relieved by rest. The pain is a result of insufficient blood flow to the muscles of the leg due to narrowing of the arteries by atherosclerosis. People who have narrowing of the main artery in the thigh, the superficial femoral artery, and intermittent claudication which severely restricts their quality of life or causes dangerous tissue changes in the leg may undergo a procedure known as angioplasty to widen this narrowing. This procedure involves passing a balloon into the narrowed segment and inflating the balloon to push the artery open. In addition to this, a cylindrical piece of metal mesh called a stent may be inserted at the site where the artery has been pushed open with the aim of holding the narrowing open in the future. While stents work well in the arteries of the heart and in other arteries, it is not clear whether adding stents following angioplasty to narrowings of the superficial femoral artery gives any benefit to the patient. 
We identified 11 randomised controlled trials with a total of 1387 participants. Their average age was 69 years and all trials included men and women. The participants were randomised to have either balloon angioplasty alone or balloon angioplasty with stent placement. At two years, blood flowing through the narrowing in the arteries was no greater in participants with a stent inserted than in those without. There was a small improvement in the distance that the participants with a stent could walk up to one year later. However, when asked about their quality of life there was no improvement, whether a stent was placed or not, up to one year later. There were differences in the included trials; in some trials people with narrowings in other leg arteries were included. There were also differences between trials in the blood thinning drugs given after stent placement, which may change results, as these agents are important in keeping stents working in other parts of the body. These factors led us to the conclusion that there is a small benefit to adding a stent when performing balloon angioplasty for people in whom balloon angioplasty fails. However, there is insufficient evidence to support this approach as routine practice for everyone and future trials should examine whether subgroups of patients may benefit from stenting. 
