Oxcarbazepine versus phenytoin monotherapy (single medication treatment) for epilepsy
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review first published in Issue 2, 2006 of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
Background 
Epilepsy is a common disorder in which abnormal electrical discharges from the brain cause recurrent seizures. We studied two types of epileptic seizures in this review: generalised onset seizures, in which electrical discharges begin in one part of the brain and move throughout the brain; and focal onset seizures, in which the seizure is generated in and affects one part of the brain (the whole hemisphere of the brain or part of a lobe of the brain). Focal seizures may become generalised (secondary generalisation) and move from one part of the brain throughout the brain. For around 70% of people with epilepsy, a single antiepileptic medication can control generalised onset or focal onset seizures. 
Objective 
Worldwide, phenytoin is a commonly used antiepileptic medication and oxcarbazepine is one of a newer generation of antiepileptic medications. The aim of this review was to compare how effective these medications are at controlling seizures, to find out if they are associated with side effects that may result in individuals stopping the medication, and to help people choose between these medications. 
Methods 
We assessed the evidence from three studies (specifically, randomised controlled trials) comparing oxcarbazepine with phenytoin. We were able to combine information for 480 people from two of the three trials. For the remaining 37 people from one trial, information was not available to use in this review. The evidence is current to 20 August 2018. 
Results 
The review found that people taking oxcarbazepine stop taking treatment because of side effects significantly later than people taking phenytoin. Our results also showed that people with focal onset seizures taking phenytoin may stop taking treatment for any reason earlier than people with focal onset seizures taking oxcarbazepine. The results also suggest that people with focal onset seizures taking oxcarbazepine may experience a repeat seizure later, and achieve freedom from seizures earlier, than people with focal onset seizures taking phenytoin. There was no clear difference between the drugs in terms of withdrawal from the treatment, seizure recurrence and seizure remission for individuals with generalised onset seizures. 
Quality of the evidence 
The two studies included in analysis were well designed but no information about seizures was recorded after people stopped taking their trial medication, which may have impacted on the results of the study. 
Most people (70%) included in the studies within this review had focal onset seizures, so the results are mainly relevant to people with this epilepsy type. Also up to 30% of the people in the trials used in our results may have been wrongly classified as having generalised seizures, which may have impacted on the results. 
