Regular antibiotics for preventing pneumococcal infection in young children with sickle cell disease 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of prophylactic antibiotic regimens for preventing pneumococcal infection in children with sickle cell disease (SCD). This is an updated version of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
People living with SCD are especially prone to respiratory and blood infections. These infections are often caused by a germ (bacteria) known as Streptococcus pneumoniae, otherwise known as pneumococcus, which can cause many types of serious illnesses. Individuals with SCD can acquire infections more easily than unaffected persons because their spleen (an organ in the body that filters blood and is vital for the proper functioning of the immune system) does not work correctly, and also because damaged tissue and bone resulting from SCD can harbour bacteria. Infection prevention is therefore one of the major ways to improve the health of persons living with SCD and reduce the risk of death. The highest risk of infection occurs in children under three years of age, but the special vaccines that help to prevent illnesses with S pneumoniae are of limited use in this young population. Therefore, regular antibiotics in addition to these special vaccines are needed to prevent infection. As risk of infection decreases with age, there might be a time when preventative antibiotic treatment can be discontinued. The aim of the review was to determine the effects of antibiotic prophylaxis against pneumococcus in children with SCD. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 25 January 2021.
Study characteristics 
We gathered evidence for this Cochrane Review by examining three clinical trials with over 800 children included. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
All three clinical trials showed a reduced rate of pneumococcal infection in children with SCD receiving penicillin preventatively. Two of these trials looked at whether treatment was effective. The third trial followed on from one of the early trials and looked at when it was safe to stop treatment. Adverse drug effects were rare and minor. However, there were problems with children keeping to the treatment schedule and with the development of antibiotic resistance. The quality of the evidence for both primary and secondary outcomes (end result) was judged to be low. 
