In the later stages of Parkinson's disease, side effects occur because of the use of levodopa in its treatment. These consist of involuntary writhing movements (dyskinesia), painful cramps in the legs and a shortened response to each dose referred to as 'end‐of‐dose deterioration' or the 'wearing‐off effect'. Dopamine agonist drugs act by mimicking levodopa in the brain, but they do not cause these long‐term treatment complications. For this reason, dopamine agonists have for some years been added once these problems develop in the hope of improving them. Pramipexole is a new dopamine agonist recently licensed in the UK for the treatment of later Parkinson's disease. In comparison, bromocriptine has been available since the late 1970s and is a well established agonist. In this review, we will examine the trials performed to see whether pramipexole is better than bromocriptine in terms of effectiveness and side effects. 
One trial compared pramipexole with bromocriptine but this was not designed to examine differences between the two treatments as there were too few patients included. However, there was a larger reduction in the time patients spent in the immobile off state with pramipexole therapy compared with bromocriptine by an average of 1.4 hours. No differences occurred in dyskinesia rating scale, dyskinesia as a side effect or Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) complication score. The UPDRS activities of daily living and motor scores showed similar improvements compared to placebo with both agonists. Levodopa dose reduction was similar with both agonists. Subscales of a quality of life measure, the Functional Status Questionnaire, showed significant improvements compared to placebo with both agonists. The finding that another quality of life scale, the EuroQol, improved significantly compared with placebo with pramipexole but not bromocriptine should be treated with caution. Side effects such as nausea, vomiting, and faintness were similar with each agonist, as was the withdrawal from treatment rate. 
