Nasogastric tubes versus nasojejunal tube for feeding people with severe acute pancreatitis
Review question 
We wanted to assess whether there are differences in safety and effectiveness when people with severe acute inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) are fed liquid nutrients during the acute illness with a nasal tube inserted into the stomach (nasogastric tube) versus into the upper part of the small bowel (nasojejunal tube). 
Background 
Acute pancreatitis is an inflammatory condition that can be caused by many factors, of which excessive alcohol intake and gallstones are the most common. Most people with the condition suffer mild attacks and recover uneventfully, usually within a week. During this period, oral feeding is withheld till the pain settles. However, one in five people with acute pancreatitis will progress rapidly to develop a severe form of the condition that can result in infections, shock, organ failure, and even death. People with severe acute pancreatitis require nutritional support. Feeding liquid nutrients via a tube into the stomach or small bowel is preferred over intravenous feeding as it results in fewer infections, serious complications, and deaths. However, for tube feeding to be effective it must ideally be started within the first 48 hours. Feeding nutrients through nasojejunal tubes that bypass the stomach is thought to prevent stimulating pancreatic secretions, thereby providing rest to the inflamed pancreas. However, inserting nasojejunal tubes requires technical expertise and resources that could delay the starting of feeds. Nasogastric tubes are technically easier to insert than nasojejunal tubes, and their use can prevent delays in initiating feeds. 
Study characteristics 
We found five randomised trials (trials in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) that included 220 adult participants with acute severe pancreatitis from India, Scotland, and the USA and that compared feeding via nasogastric versus nasojejunal tubes. The evidence is current to 17 October 2019. 
