Advocacy interventions to help women who experience intimate partner abuse to access community resources 
Background 
Partner abuse (domestic violence) is common worldwide. It includes physical, emotional, and sexual abuse; threats; withholding money; causing injury; and long‐lasting physical and emotional health problems. Advocacy (active support by trained people) may help women make safety plans, deal with abuse, and access community resources. 
Evidence on the effects of advocacy will help service planning and provision.
Method 
We searched scientific literature worldwide up to April 2015 for clinical trials comparing advocacy for abused women with no care or usual care, to understand whether advocacy was safe and effective. We found 13 trials conducted in several countries, involving 2141 women from various ethnic groups, aged 15 to 65 years and often poor. 
Studies varied in terms of advocacy duration (30 minutes to 80 hours) and participating staff (students, nurses, professional advocates, psychologists, social workers, community health workers, mothers in antenatal clinics, researchers). Eleven measured abuse, six assessed quality of life, and six measured depression. Three considered advocacy plus psychiatric help. Most studies followed up on the women for at least a year. 
Studies recruited women from healthcare settings, domestic violence refuges/shelters, and community centres. Brief advocacy (up to 12 hours) was most common in healthcare settings, and intensive advocacy (more than 12 hours) was more common in other settings. 
Key outcomes 
Quality of the evidence 
Five studies had design flaws that entailed a high risk of biasing their results, while five had moderate risk and three studies had low risk. 
Physical abuse 
After one year, brief advocacy had no effect in two healthcare studies of moderate quality or in one community study at low risk of bias, but it reduced minor abuse in another antenatal care study (low risk of bias). Another antenatal study showed reduced abuse immediately after brief advocacy (with one woman likely to benefit if eight received the advocacy), but women were also treated for depression, which may have affected results. Two studies provided weak evidence that intensive advocacy reduces physical abuse up to two years after the intervention (with one in eight women likely to benefit). 
Sexual abuse 
Four studies failed to show benefits from advocacy for sexual abuse.
Emotional abuse 
One antenatal care study (low risk of bias) reported reduced emotional abuse at 12 months after advocacy. 
Depression 
Brief advocacy prevented depression in abused women attending healthcare services and pregnant women immediately after advocacy (with one woman likely to benefit for every four to eight treated). Intensive advocacy did not reduce depression in shelter women followed up at 12 and 24 months. The moderate‐to‐low quality evidence came mostly from studies with a low risk of bias. 
Quality of life 
Three brief advocacy trials found no benefit on quality of life. Intensive advocacy showed a weak benefit in two studies in domestic violence shelters/refuges. A primary care study (high risk of bias) showed improved motivation to do daily tasks immediately after advocacy. 
