Mobility management interventions to prevent, reduce, or delay driving in teenagers
Review question 
This review assessed evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and controlled before‐after studies (CBAs), on whether 'mobility management' can be used to prevent, reduce, or delay car driving in teenagers aged 15 to 19 years. 
Background 
Despite safety‐based educational programmes and programmes designed to restrict teenage driving (called graduated drivers licensing, or GDL), rates of injury and death caused by teenage car drivers remain high. Car use also leads to health risks caused by being less active physically, and environmental risks from burning fossil fuels. 
'Mobility management' is the term applied to strategies that encourage people of different ages to drive less. Examples include encouraging walking or cycling, use of public transport, or car sharing. People are more likely to make changes to how they live their lives in the period between the ages of 15 and 19 years. This may be the ideal time to introduce mobility management to prevent, reduce, or delay driving. This may influence long‐term car use, and reduce risks associated with driving. 
Search date 
We searched for RCTs (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), and CBAs (CBAs are not randomised, but measure outcomes before and after an intervention is applied), published up to 16 August 2019. 
Study characteristics 
We found one small RCT. This study gave 178 university students (average age 18 years) who did not hold a driving licence, different types of information to educate them about the negative aspects of car use. Students received information about cost, risk, or stress related to car use, or a combination of all three, while a fifth group of students received no information. 
We also found one CBA with 860 participants. In this study, 17‐ to 18‐year‐old school students taking a driving theory course received an additional lesson about active transport, such as walking or cycling. Some were also invited to join a relevant Facebook group. Students in a third group received no additional information. Students were asked questions about their intention to use active transport after getting a driving licence, but many did not complete the study. 
Key results 
The RCT reported that fewer students obtained a driving licence 18 months after they were given negative car‐related information than students given no information. 
The CBA reported a decreased intention to use active transport immediately after the lesson in students invited to the Facebook group only, but eight weeks later this was the only group where intention to use active transport had increased. 
