A review about a drug called tacrolimus for the treatment of difficult‐to‐treat ulcerative colitis 
What was the aim of this review? 
We aimed to find out whether tacrolimus is an effective and safe treatment in people with ulcerative colitis that are difficult to treat in any other way. 
Background 
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic inflammatory bowel disease characterised by recurrent episodes of active disease, which commonly affect the rectum or colon or both. People with active disease may experience abdominal cramping, urgency to pass stools, and bloody diarrhoea. People with ulcerative colitis can find standard treatments for active disease are not effective. Tacrolimus is a medicine that reduces the activity of the immune system. We wanted to find out whether tacrolimus can help people with ulcerative colitis for whom other treatments do not work. 
Several types of therapies have been used to try to manage difficult cases of ulcerative colitis and there is currently no agreement between clinicians as to which therapy is more helpful. 
What did the review study? 
In this review, we examined data from five studies that compared tacrolimus to placebo (dummy treatment) and two other medicines called beclometasone and ciclosporin. 
We wanted to see if tacrolimus is better in stopping the symptoms of ulcerative colitis (achieving remission) or improving them, and if it is safe to use. 
Key messages 
Tacrolimus may be better than placebo for stopping the symptoms or improving them.
Tacrolimus may be no different to beclometasone for stopping the symptoms or improving them. 
There are few data comparing tacrolimus to ciclosporin.
It is difficult to tell if tacrolimus causes more or fewer side effects compared to placebo or the other two medicines because of the very limited data. 
What were the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) comparing tacrolimus with any other treatment (such as placebo treatments) in people with difficult cases of ulcerative colitis. We found five trials including 344 participants and made the following conclusions. 
There was low‐quality evidence that tacrolimus may be better than placebo for stopping or improving the symptoms of ulcerative colitis. 
There was low‐quality evidence that tacrolimus may be no different to beclometasone for stopping or improving the symptoms of ulcerative colitis. 
The evidence was of very low quality on whether tacrolimus is different to ciclosporin for stopping or improving the symptoms of ulcerative colitis. 
The evidence was of very low quality on whether tacrolimus causes more or fewer side effects compared to placebo or the other two drugs, because of the very limited data. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
This review is up‐to‐date as of October 2021.
