Drugs that prevent oral bleeding in people using oral anticoagulants undergoing minor oral surgery or dental extractions 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether antifibrinolytic medicine (drugs that prevent breakdown of a blood clot), such as tranexamic acid or epsilon aminocaproic acid, can prevent oral bleeding after minor oral surgery or dental extractions in people using oral anticoagulants (blood thinners that are taken by mouth) without interruption during the procedure. 
Background 
People on continuous oral anticoagulant treatment are at an increased risk of bleeding complications during and after oral surgery or dental extractions. There are two types of oral anticoagulant treatment: vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) (e.g. warfarin and coumarin) and direct oral anticoagulants (DOACs) (e.g. dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, edoxaban). DOACs are becoming an increasingly popular alternative for VKAs, traditionally used for preventing blood clotting in people at risk of thrombosis. The number of bleeds and the severity of each bleed depend on medication‐related factors (such as the degree of anticoagulation, measured by the international normalised ratio (INR)), surgery‐related factors (such as the size of the wound or the number of roots extracted), as well as patient‐related factors (such as inflammation of the gums or blood vessel diseases). The INR level is important to determine how well the anticoagulant treatment is preventing blood clots. Within the desired range of the INR level, a person has both the least risk of blood clotting complications and the least risk of excessive bleeding. In routine practice antifibrinolytic medicine is often used before, during and after minor oral surgery or dental extractions for people using oral anticoagulants. The question is whether there is reliable scientific evidence for this practice. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 04 January 2018.
Study characteristics 
We did not find any trials of antifibrinolytic medicine for preventing bleeding after minor oral surgery or dental extractions in people using DOACs. This review includes four trials (253 participants) in people continuously treated with VKAs during minor oral surgery or dental extractions. The earliest included trial was published in 1989 and the most recent one in 2015. The mean age of all participants was 60 years. The follow‐up time in all trials was seven days. 
