Strontium ranelate for osteoporosis in women after menopause
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of strontium ranelate for osteoporosis in women after menopause. The review shows that:There is silver level evidence (www.cochranemsk.org) that for treatment of osteoporosis in women after menopause, 2 g of strontium ranelate daily over 3 years decreases fractures in the spine and slightly decreases fractures not in the spine. Most women do not have side effects that would cause them to stop taking strontium ranelate. However, other research shows that harms could include a chance of blood clots and seizures, memory loss and consciousness. 
What is osteoporosis and how can strontium ranelate help? 
Osteoporosis is a condition in which bone loss occurs. Bone loss leads to weak brittle bones that can break easily, even during everyday activities. Breaks (fractures) of the spine or non‐spine (e.g. wrist and hip) are the most common type. There are many drugs and minerals that work to treat osteoporosis. Strontium ranelate is a drug that decreases the chance of fractures by slowing the loss of bone and possibly by building new bone. It is a new drug and therefore its benefits and harms need to be known. 
What are the results of this review? 
Women in the studies took 2 g of strontium ranelate or a placebo (fake tablets or powder). After 2 to 3 years, the number of fractures that occurred and bone mineral density was measured. Bone mineral density is a lab test to measure how dense or strong bones are in the hip, spine or neck. The higher the bone density the better. 
Benefits of strontium ranelate 
In women after menopause who have osteoporosis:
‐ strontium ranelate decreases spine fractures:
13 out of 100 women had spine fractures taking strontium ranelate
21 out of 100 women had spine fractures taking a placebo
‐ strontium ranelate may decrease fractures that are not in the spine:
10 out of 100 women had non‐spine fractures taking strontium ranelate
12 out of 100 women had non‐spine fractures taking a placebo
‐ strontium ranelate increases bone mineral density
1 in 3 women had an increase in spine and hip bone mineral density taking strontium ranelate 
Harms of strontium ranelate 
In women after menopause who have osteoporosis:
‐ strontium ranelate did not cause side effects that would make them stop taking it
‐ strontium ranelate did not lead to serious side effects, stomach infections, back pain or death 
‐ strontium ranelate increased diarrhea
6 out of 100 women had diarrhea taking strontium ranelate
4 out of 100 women had diarrhea taking a placebo
Other research shows that harms could include a chance of blood clots, and seizures, memory loss and consciousness. The cause of these vascular and neurological side effects are not known. 
This review has several limitations which include difficulty interpreting the change in bone mineral density due to the unique aspects of strontium in bone as well, incomplete follow‐up of some patients within the individual trials. 
