Interventions for increasing eating of fruit and vegetables in children aged five years and under 
Background 
Not eating enough fruit and vegetables is a considerable health burden in developed countries. Eating adequate amounts of fruit and vegetables is associated with a reduced risk of future non‐communicable diseases (such as heart and circulatory disease). Early childhood represents a critical period for the establishment of dietary habits that track into adulthood. Interventions to increase consumption of fruit and vegetables in early childhood may therefore be an effective strategy to reduce this disease burden. 
Review question 
To assess the impact of interventions designed to increase eating of fruit or vegetables or both among children aged five years and under. 
Methods 
We searched various electronic databases and relevant journals to find trials. We contacted authors of included trials for additional potentially relevant trials. Any randomised trial (participants have the same chance of being assigned to treatment or control) of interventions aiming to increase the intake of fruit or vegetables or both by children aged five years and under that measured intake was eligible. Two review authors independently searched for and extracted information from trials. The evidence is current to January 2020. 
Results 
We included 80 trials with 12,965 people taking part. Fifty trials examined child‐feeding practice interventions (e.g. repeated exposure to vegetables), 15 examined parent nutrition education interventions, 14 examined multicomponent interventions (e.g. combining preschool policy changes with parent education), two examined child nutrition education interventions and one examined a child‐focused mindfulness intervention. Child‐feeding practice interventions may lead to, and multicomponent interventions probably lead to, small increases in children's intake of fruit and vegetables in the short term (less than 12 months). It is uncertain whether parent or child nutrition education interventions alone are effective in increasing children's eating of fruit and vegetables. There was not enough information to assess long‐term effectiveness, cost effectiveness or unintended harms. Trials reporting funding support received governmental or charitable funds, except for four trials that received industry funding. 
Conclusions 
Child‐feeding practices may increase fruit and vegetable intake by children (by 5.30 grams a day), but this conclusion is based on low‐quality evidence and our confidence in this effect is limited. Multicomponent interventions probably increase fruit and vegetable intake by children (by 0.34 cups a day), based on moderate‐quality evidence. It is uncertain whether parent nutrition education interventions increase children's fruit and vegetable intake. 
