How accurate are asking about symptoms and doing a chest X‐ray to screen for tuberculosis of the lungs among adults who are HIV‐negative or with unknown HIV status? 
Why is improving screening for tuberculosis of the lungs important? 
Systematic screening in settings where tuberculosis is common is a recommended strategy for early detection of tuberculosis. Screening helps identify people who are more likely to have tuberculosis so they can have confirmatory testing. These are additional tests to confirm the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium that causes tuberculosis. Asking about tuberculosis symptoms (for example, cough, coughing up blood, fever, and fatigue) and doing a chest X‐ray (CXR), which shows lung abnormalities, are commonly used screening methods. Tuberculosis is treatable with antibiotics, which means that early detection may result in lower mortality and morbidity, less transmission of tuberculosis, and more equitable access to care. 
Not recognizing lung tuberculosis when it is present (a false‐negative result) may result in delayed treatment and further transmission. Conversely, a screening result that is thought to be positive while it is not may result in unnecessary confirmatory tests, which burdens both the individual and the public health system. 
Knowing how often screening tests lead to false‐positive and false‐negative results – this is called accuracy ‐ may help in choosing a screening method. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out how accurate asking about symptoms and CXR are as screening tests for lung tuberculosis in adults with unknown or negative HIV status. 
What was studied in the review? 
We studied the accuracy of three types of symptom questions: (i) cough for two or more weeks, (ii) cough of any duration, and (iii) any tuberculosis symptom. For CXR, we studied two definitions for a positive result: (i) any CXR lung abnormality and (ii) CXR lung abnormalities suggestive of tuberculosis. The results are interpreted by staff trained in radiology. 
