Dressings that use negative pressure for closed surgical wounds
Key messages  
Negative pressure wound therapy (NPWT) probably results in fewer surgical site infections (SSIs) than standard dressings in people with closed wounds after surgery. 
NPWT probably makes no difference to the proportion of people with wound reopening (dehiscence) after surgery and may make little or no difference to the number of people who die. 
NPWT may increase the number of people with skin blistering after surgery but may make little or no difference to other outcomes. 
The cost‐effectiveness of NPWT and how certain we are about this depends on the type of surgery. 
What are surgical wounds healing by primary closure?  
Surgical wounds healing by primary closure are incisions created by surgery where the edges have been brought together, usually by using stitches or staples. Most surgical wounds heal in this way. A potential complication of surgery is SSI, an infection at the site of a surgical wound. The proportion of people who develop an SSI after surgery can be as high as 40%. An SSI can cause pain and discomfort, as well as increasing a person’s length of hospital stay and cost of treatment. 
What did we want to find out?  
NPWT is a sealed wound dressing attached to a vacuum pump which sucks fluid away from the wound. This may assist with wound healing and reduce risk of infection. We wanted to find out whether NPWT was better compared with standard wound dressings (usually gauze and tape) for treating people who had had surgery and had wounds which had been closed. We were interested in complications including SSI; wound reopening (dehiscence) and death for any reason. We also looked at several other outcomes including the need for another operation, the need to be admitted to hospital again, pain, quality of life, as well as some specific types of complications (haematoma (an accumulation of blood under the skin), seroma (an accumulation of clear fluid under the skin), skin blisters).  
We also wanted to find out whether NPWT was cost‐effective for treating people who had closed surgical wounds. 
What did we do?  
We searched for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where the treatment people receive is chosen at random). This type of study design provides the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. We searched for studies that compared any type of NPWT with standard dressings in people who had had surgery and had a wound which had been closed. We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence. 
What did we find?  
We found 62 studies which compared NPWT with standard dressings and looked at surgical site complications. A variety of NPWT systems was used. A total of 13,340 people have been included in this review. A wide variety of surgeries was included such as knee and hip operations, caesarean sections, operations for broken bones and abdominal surgeries. There were more women than men included in the review because several large trials included only women having caesarean sections. Most of the people included in the review live in North America, Europe or Australasia. 
Eleven studies (6384 people) reported on risk of death and found that there may be a lower risk with NPWT compared with standard dressings but this is not clear. Forty‐four studies (11,403 people) looking at SSI were combined, and found that NPWT probably reduced the risk of SSI compared with standard dressings. Twenty‐three studies (8724 people) found that there is probably little or no difference in wound reopening between NPWT and standard dressings. For most other outcomes, the evidence showed that there may not be clear differences between the treatments, or that we are uncertain about the true effect of the treatments. The exception was skin blistering where NPWT may increase the proportion of people who experience this after surgery. 
Six cost‐effectiveness studies were included in the review. These studies looked at women who had had caesarean sections, people with lower limb fractures, knee and hip surgeries, vascular surgery and heart surgery. All these studies used clinical information from trials included in this review. NPWT is probably cost‐effective for caesarean section wounds in obese women and probably not cost‐effective for fracture surgery wounds but we are less sure about its cost‐effectiveness in the other types of surgery. 
What limited our confidence in the evidence?  
Our confidence in the evidence was limited by different reasons for different outcomes. Given the small number of people who died, the results for death are likely to change with more evidence. For SSI, approximately half the people were in studies using methods likely to introduce errors. For wound reopening and most other outcomes, our confidence was reduced by a combination of these reasons. For skin blistering, our confidence was reduced by differences between the studies as well as study methods. 
