Intravenous antibiotics given at home for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of giving antibiotics at home to people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a serious genetic disease linked to recurrent lung infections. As a result of these infections, the person's lung disease becomes progressively worse. Lung infections are often treated with intravenous antibiotics (given directly into a vein) in hospital for a number of weeks. This is costly and disrupts the life of people with cystic fibrosis. Treatment can be given at home if patients and their carers are given enough training and support. We looked for randomised controlled trials which compared intravenous antibiotic treatment in hospital with treatment at home. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 23 November 2015.
Study characteristics 
We found one study with 17 people aged 10 to 41 years who had a flare up of infection with Pseudomonas aeruginosa. The people taking part were assigned to either home antibiotics or hospital antibiotics at random. Those who had home antibiotics initially spent up to four days in hospital and were taught to prepare and administer their own intravenous antibiotics. They were discharged with enough medication and equipment for the course of treatment and were visited at home. All participants received the same type of antibiotic and the course lasted at least 10 days. 
Key results 
There were no differences found for clinical outcomes, adverse events, or complications linked to intravenous treatment. People at home were more tired and found the treatment more difficult to master. This may be due to them being more active and needing more support. Home therapy was cheaper for families and the hospital. There were no details about indirect costs. We conclude that treatment at home does not harm people in the short term and does reduce social disruption. However, the decision in favour of this option must be made on an individual basis. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence is very limited and more research is strongly needed to recommend its use. 
