Oral and intrauterine progestogens for atypical endometrial hyperplasia
Review question 
Cochrane authors investigated the efficacy and safety of oral and intrauterine progestogens for the precancerous condition of thickening in the lining of the womb (endometrium) called atypical endometrial hyperplasia.  
Background 
Oral progestins have been used as conservative (non‐surgical) treatment in young women with atypical endometrial hyperplasia. However, oral progestins are associated with side effects that may limit their overall efficacy. The levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) is thought to reduce the risk of endometrial hyperplasia because it slows thickening in the lining of the womb, and studies have reported that it may be an appropriate conservative treatment for atypical hyperplasia. So it is important to determine the efficacy and safety of the LNG‐IUS in treating atypical endometrial hyperplasia. 
Study characteristics 
This review of the evidence found one randomised controlled trial (RCT) of the LNG‐IUS versus oral progestin therapy in women with any type of endometrial hyperplasia. It was conducted in Norway and included 153 women, but only 19 of the women had a confirmed histological diagnosis of atypical endometrial hyperplasia; the other women had other types of endometrial hyperplasia. The evidence is current to July 2018. 
Key results 
The included RCT compared LNG‐IUS versus oral continuous or cyclic medroxyprogesterone (MPA) for treating endometrial hyperplasia. After six months of treatment, there was insufficient evidence to determine whether there was a difference in regression rates between the LNG‐IUS group and the MPA group. The rate of regression was 100% in the LNG‐IUS group (n = 6/6) and 77% in the MPA group (n = 10/13). Among the total study population (N = 153), over the six months' treatment the main adverse effects were nausea and vaginal bleeding. There was no evidence of a difference between the groups in rates of nausea, but vaginal bleeding was more common in the LNG‐IUS group. 
