What is the effectiveness and safety of luteal support in infertile women trying to conceive by intrauterine insemination (IUI) or by sexual intercourse? 
Background 
Luteal phase is part of the menstrual cycle. It is the time between the release of an egg (ovulation) and before the start of menstruation, and when the body produces progesterone (a hormone released by the ovaries) and prepares for a possible pregnancy. Ovarian stimulation (use of fertility medicines) might affect progesterone production during the luteal phase. Low levels of progesterone in the luteal phase are associated with decreased rates of pregnancy outcomes such as ongoing pregnancy (pregnancy after 12 weeks) and live birth. Luteal phase support including progesterone and/or other medical agents including pregnancy hormone (human chorionic gonadotropin (hCG), which stimulates progesterone production) or gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonist, which increases progesterone level after ovulation, may improve pregnancy outcomes. 
Study characteristics 
We included 25 randomised controlled trials (a type of study where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) involving a total of 5111 participants. We identified nine comparisons, including progesterone compared with placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment, different dosages of vaginal progesterone supplement, different routes of progesterone supplement, GnRH agonist compared with placebo or no treatment, vaginal progesterone compared with GnRH agonist, and hCG compared with no treatment. All studies reported pregnancy outcomes, but only one study reported adverse events. All included studies reported on intrauterine insemination, a procedure where sperm is placed directly into the uterus (womb) using a thin, flexible plastic tube inserted through the vagina and cervix. No trial evaluated the effect of luteal support when trying to get pregnant naturally. 
Key results 
Progesterone supplementation versus placebo or no treatment 
We are uncertain if vaginal progesterone increases live birth/ongoing pregnancy rate when compared to placebo or no treatment in any of the types of ovarian stimulation cycle evaluated (gonadotropin (injectable hormones), gonadotropin plus oral stimulation, and oral stimulation alone). We are uncertain if progesterone reduces miscarriage rates. Vaginal progesterone may slightly increase clinical pregnancy (when the pregnancy is confirmed through ultrasound and a heartbeat is be detected). Progesterone supplementation may increase clinical pregnancy slightly in all types of ovarian stimulation cycle (gonadotropin (injectable hormones), gonadotropin plus oral stimulation, and oral stimulation alone). However, given the low certainty of the evidence, it is unclear whether the treatment makes a difference for the other prespecified outcomes (adverse events or multiple pregnancy rate (having twins/triplets)). 
300 mg versus 600 mg vaginal progesterone 
It is unclear if 300 mg vaginal progesterone has an effect on live birth, ongoing pregnancy, miscarriage, or adverse events when compared to 600 mg vaginal progesterone.  
