Medical or operative treatment for ulcers in the stomach and upper small intestine resistant to medical treatment 
Review question 
In people who have stomach or upper small intestinal ulcers (peptic ulcers) that do not heal after eight to 12 weeks of medical treatment (refractory peptic ulcers) or comes back after healing (recurrent peptic ulcers), is medical or surgical treatment better? 
Background 
Approximately 1 in 100 to 1 in 800 people have peptic ulcers. The major causes of peptic ulcer are Helicobacter pylori infection, non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID) use, and smoking. People who have peptic ulcer have upper abdominal pain, which is sometimes accompanied by dyspepsia (that is fullness, bloating, loss of appetite after eating a small amount of food, or nausea). The most serious complications of peptic ulcers are bleeding from the ulcer and perforation of the peptic ulcer, which results in stomach or upper small intestinal contents or both leaking into the tummy. About 1 in 10 people with bleeding peptic ulcer and 1 in 4 people with perforated peptic ulcer die. Peptic ulcers cause approximately 3000 to 4500 deaths per year in the US. 
Currently, medical management, usually with a group of drugs called proton pump inhibitors (such as omeprazole and lansoprazole), is the mainstay treatment for uncomplicated peptic ulcers. Recently concerns have arisen about the risk of fractures with long‐term use of proton pump inhibitors. The alternative to medical treatment for refractory and recurrent peptic ulcer is surgical treatment to decrease the acid secretion in the stomach with the goal of curing the peptic ulcer. It is not known whether medical or surgical management is a better option for people with a refractory or recurrent peptic ulcer. We attempted to resolve this issue by searching the medical literature for studies comparing medical and surgical treatment in people with refractory or recurrent peptic ulcers. 
Study characteristics 
We found no randomised controlled trials, and identified only one non‐randomised study published 30 years ago, on this topic. This study included 77 participants who had stomach ulcer and in whom medical therapy had failed after an average treatment duration of 29 months. Medical therapy included histamine H2 receptor blockers (medicines that block the action of the chemical histamine, resulting in a decreased production of stomach acid, such as ranitidine), antacids, and diet. It must be highlighted that this form of medical treatment is not considered to be as effective as treatment with proton pump inhibitors. The authors do not state whether these were recurrent or refractory ulcers. Of the 77 included participants, 37 participants continued to have medical therapy, while 40 participants received surgical therapy. Whether to use medical or surgical treatment was determined by participant's or treating physician's preference. The evidence is current to September 2015. 
Key results 
The study authors reported that two participants in the medical treatment group (5%) had stomach cancer, which was identified after repeated examinations using a camera to look inside the body (an endoscope), in this case, the stomach and small intestine. They did not report the percentage of participants who had stomach cancer in the surgical treatment group. They also did not report the implications of the delayed diagnosis of stomach cancer in the medical treatment group. They did not report any other outcomes of interest (measures by which one treatment can be considered better than another) for this review (that is health‐related quality of life, treatment‐related complications, peptic ulcer‐related complications, abdominal pain, and long‐term deaths). There is thus no study that provides the relative benefits and harms of medical versus surgical treatment for recurrent or refractory peptic ulcers. Studies on this topic are urgently required. 
