Antibiotic prophylaxis for surgical site infection in people undergoing liver transplantation
Review question 
Benefits and harms of antibiotic prophylactic regimens for surgical site infection in people undergoing liver transplantation. 
Background 
Surgical site infection is more frequent in liver transplantation than in other types of solid organ transplantation. Studies have shown that the rate of surgical site infection varies from 8.8% to 37.5% after liver transplantation in which different regimens of prophylactic antibiotics are used. Therefore, antimicrobial prophylaxis is likely an essential tool for reducing surgical site infection. However, the literature lacks evidence regarding the best antibiotic prophylactic regimen that can be used for liver transplantation. 
Study characteristics 
All eligible randomised clinical trials comparing any antibiotic regimen versus placebo, versus no intervention or versus another antibiotic regimen for surgical site infection in patients who underwent liver transplantation, regardless of age, sex and reason for transplantation. Quasi‐randomised studies and other observational studies were considered for data on harm if retrieved with the search result for randomised clinical trials. 
Evidence is current to September 2015. Only one randomised clinical trial published in abstract form examined the effects of antibiotics for prophylaxis in liver transplant recipients. 
Key results 
This randomised clinical trial, which was conducted at Shiraz Transplant Centre, Shiraz, Iran, randomly assigned a total of 180 participants; of these, 163 participants met the inclusion criteria after randomisation. The trial reported no other numerical data and was considered at high risk of bias; the quality of the evidence was low, hence we cannot be sure of the conclusions presented by trial authors. This trial assessed ceftriaxone plus metronidazole versus ampicillin‐sulbactam plus ceftizoxime. Trial authors have not responded to three email requests sent by review authors to request detailed information, but they mention that they found no differences between the two antibiotic regimens when used for prophylaxis for bacterial infection among liver transplant recipients. 
Quality of the evidence 
The only identified trial, which was published in abstract form, is at high risk of bias. Trial authors did not report on outcomes such as adverse events, time of graft survival, intensive care unit stay, total time of hospital stay nor quality of life. Although study authors seemed to report on some outcomes of interest, their reporting is ambiguous, and no data are available. Trial authors excluded high‐risk patients from their analyses. 
