Online support groups for women with breast cancer
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for effects of online support groups for women with breast cancer on emotional distress, uncertainty, anxiety, depression and quality of life. 
Background 
Women with a diagnosis of breast cancer can be affected physically, psychologically and emotionally. They are uncertain about the future and may need information and support to help them cope with their condition. Increasingly, people with cancer are accessing the Internet to seek the information and support that they need; many join online support groups. At this time, we know little about how participation in online support groups psychologically and emotionally affects women with breast cancer. 
Study characteristics 
We conducted a systematic search of the literature with no restrictions on language or country. We included in this review six studies, with a total population of 492 women with breast cancer. Five of the six studies had small samples. Study participants were predominantly 'white', well‐educated women with moderate to high income at any stage of breast cancer who were undergoing a range of treatments. 
Online support groups in these six trials lasted six to 30 weeks and included eight to 15 members. Women participated in these groups between 1.5 and 2.5 hours per week. Investigators reported all trials in English and conducted their research in the USA. 
Key results 
None of the included trials measured emotional distress or uncertainty. Women who participated in online support groups showed no improvement in anxiety or quality of life when compared with those in control groups (which included women with similar characteristics who did not participate in online support groups). However, women who took part in online support groups showed a small to moderate reduction in depression when compared with those in control groups. 
Results revealed no difference in depression between groups led by peers and those led by health professionals. However, women taking part in standard online groups (run by participants without prompting from health professionals) reported a greater reduction in depression and anxiety than those in other types of online groups (in which women were asked specifically by the health professional to respond to one another's need for support). 
