Platelet transfusion before surgery for people with low platelet counts
Review question 
We aimed to assess the safety and clinical effectiveness of administrating platelet transfusions to people with a low platelet count who require surgery. We included three comparisons: giving platelet transfusion versus no platelet transfusion; giving platelet transfusion versus an alternative treatment (medicines that reduce the risk of bleeding or increase the platelet count) or giving platelet transfusions when the platelet count is below a set number (low platelet count e.g. 20 × 109/L versus slightly higher e.g. 50 × 109/L). 
Our target population was people with a low platelet count of any age who required surgery. We excluded studies on people with a low platelet count who were actively bleeding. 
Key messages 
There was not enough evidence to help guide the use of platelet transfusions prior to surgery in people with a low platelet count. There is no evidence for infants and children or prior to a major operation. 
What was studied in this review? 
Platelets are tiny cells in the blood that form clots to help stop bleeding. If a person with a low platelet counts requires surgery they are at increased risk of bleeding during and after surgery. A number of strategies are used to reduce the risk of bleeding, these include: giving platelet transfusions (injecting platelets into the bloodstream) to increase the platelet count, giving medicines to increase the platelet count and giving medicines that reduce the risk of bleeding. The current strategies are not based on good evidence, but based on individual clinical experience and expertise. 
What are the main results of this review? 
We found five randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) eligible for inclusion in this review. Two of these studies are still in progress. The three completed trials were small, with a combined total of 180 people. All were in adults who required minor surgery or an invasive procedure (a procedure that is carried out through the skin or a body cavity or anatomical opening). Two trials were in adults with liver disease and one trial was in adults in the intensive care unit. One trial compared platelet transfusion to no transfusion. One trial compared platelet transfusion to drugs that increased the platelet count. One trial compared platelet transfusion to a drug that decreased the risk of bleeding. We did not find any studies that compared the use of platelet transfusions using different platelet count levels as a guide for platelet transfusion. 
There was not enough evidence to determine whether platelet transfusions affected the risk of death due to any cause, minor or major procedure‐related bleeding, or the risk of a serious side effect. The only available evidence was of very‐low quality because: the estimates were very imprecise, the studies were at risk of bias (participants and doctors knew which treatment they were receiving) and the evidence only applied to adults with liver disease requiring a dental procedure or liver biopsy (sample of the liver taken for analysis), or adults in intensive care units requiring insertion of a tube to help breathing (tracheotomy). 
None of the studies reported: death due to any cause at 90 days after surgery; death due to bleeding, infection or a blood clot; number of red cell (cells that carry oxygen in the blood) or platelet transfusions each participant received; length of hospital stay or quality of life. 
None of the trials included children or people who needed major surgery or emergency surgical procedures. 
How up to date is this evidence? 
We searched for studies published up to December 2017.
