Dressings and topical agents (creams or lotions) for preventing pressure ulcers
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether dressings and topical agents, like creams, can prevent pressure ulcers. 
Background 
Pressure ulcers, also known as bed sores or pressure sores, are injuries to the skin or tissue underneath, or both. They develop as a result of sustained pressure on bony parts of the body. They are common among elderly people and those with mobility problems. They are often difficult to heal, expensive to treat and have a negative impact on people's quality of life, so it is important to prevent them. Special mattresses, cushions, and regular changes of position are used for prevention. Dressings and creams are also widely used. We wanted to compare different dressings and topical agents and find out which were best at preventing pressure ulcers in people at risk of developing them. We also wanted to consider other outcomes, like pain, quality of life, and the cost to healthcare systems of the different treatments. 
Trial characteristics 
In order to ensure that the information contained within this review is up to date, in March 2017 we searched for any new randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared dressings and/or topical agents with other methods for preventing pressure ulcers. RCTs are medical studies where patients are chosen at random to receive different treatments. This type of trial provides the most reliable evidence. This is the first time we have updated this review. We found nine RCTs, giving us a total of 18 relevant trials. These trials included 3629 adults, mainly elderly people, though some included younger adults with mobility‐limiting injuries. Products tested included fatty acid (fatty acids come from animal and vegetable fats and oils and are used to moisten the skin), creams and dressings made with silicone or foam. 
Key results 
The results of six trials suggest that silicone dressings may reduce the likelihood of people developing pressure ulcers . However, we were uncertain about the evidence from five of these trials because they used poor methods, so we cannot be confident about these results. We also found that use of fatty acid versus a control compound (a cream that does not include fatty acid) may reduce the incidence of pressure ulcers, but results from this trial were uncertain. None of the other comparisons involving topical agents provided conclusive evidence that they make it less likely that people will develop a pressure ulcer. 
Quality of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence in the trials was low to very low. Additional trials at low risk of bias are needed to clarify the effect of dressings and topical agents in preventing pressure ulcers. 
