D‐dimer for excluding pulmonary embolism in hospital outpatient and accident and emergency populations 
Review question 
To investigate the ability of the D‐dimer test to rule out a diagnosis of acute pulmonary embolism (PE) in patients treated in hospital outpatient and accident and emergency (A&E) departments. 
Background 
Pulmonary embolism (PE) is a serious, potentially fatal condition that occurs when a blood clot becomes lodged in the blood vessels of the lungs. When people arrive to hospital A&E departments reporting difficulty breathing, breathlessness and chest pain, several explanations are possible but a quick diagnosis is needed. Tests that are available to detect blood clots in the lungs can be invasive and time‐consuming, can carry a radiation burden and may be costly. Quick, easy‐to‐use and inexpensive tests that can be used to rule out the diagnosis would be very valuable. 
One such test is the D‐dimer test, which is so named because it detects small pieces of protein in the blood, which are called D‐dimer. When someone with symptoms of breathlessness and chest pain arrives to the hospital A&E department, the staff conducts an examination and asks questions about the patient's medical history and lifestyle. This helps them to calculate a score for the patient's risk that symptoms are due to a PE. 
If the score shows that they are at high risk of a blood clot in the lungs, patients undergo diagnostic scanning immediately (or are treated while test results are awaited). A D‐dimer test can be ordered for people in low or moderate (or unlikely) risk groups; a negative D‐dimer result might rule out the diagnosis of PE without the need for imaging. 
Study characteristics 
This review considered all evidence provided by studies that assess the ability of D‐dimer to rule out PE in people attending hospital outpatient and A&E departments. 
We assessed all available reports from a wide search of databases of medical literature. Two review authors independently assessed studies that met the review criteria, including use of a study design called a cross‐sectional study; inclusion of people with symptoms of PE who attended hospital outpatient and A&E departments; use of a risk score and then a D‐dimer test; and comparison of results of the D‐dimer test against the results of the very best available tests ‐ ventilation/perfusion scanning (V/Q scanning), pulmonary angiography, computerised tomography pulmonary angiography, and magnetic resonance pulmonary angiography. 
Key results 
Four studies met our criteria, and data from 1585 patients were available. We found evidence that negative (disease absent) D‐dimer tests are very good at ruling out PE and identifying people without PE, but high numbers of false‐positive test results suggest that people with a raised D‐dimer may not in fact have a PE; therefore, a positive result needs to be followed by imaging. In one study, false‐positives were more common among people older than 65 years of age. 
Quality of the evidence 
The flow of patients and the timing of D‐dimer and reference standard tests were of greatest methodological concern; no study authors provided a flow diagram to show the flow of patients throughout their study, and only one study clearly reported the time between administration of index and reference standard tests. In the remaining three studies, timing between conduct of the index test and completion of the reference standard was not clearly reported, leading to an unclear classification of bias. 
Conclusions 
Limited evidence from the studies included in this review suggests that quantitative D‐dimer tests used in emergency departments have few false‐negatives but very high levels of false‐positive results, with a high level of sensitivity consistently evident across all age groups. This makes the test useful as a rule‐out test but means that a positive result requires diagnostic imaging. 
