Health examination of people before they start work at a new job to prevent injuries, disease and sick leave 
What is the purpose of health examinations before people start work at a new job? 
The aim of pre‐employment examinations is to find people who may have a higher risk for occupational disease, injury or sick leave if they are given the job. By not employing job applicants with higher health risks, it may be possible to prevent disease or injury. These possible health benefits come at the cost of the applicants not having a job. Other prevention strategies are to fix the problems found at the examination by changing work tasks or by physical fitness training. 
How has this been studied? 
We conducted a systematic search for studies that had been published up to 31 March 2015. We found eleven studies, including 7820 people that evaluated the whole process of health examinations, including rejection of applicants with higher risks of occupational disease, injury or sick leave. 
What did the research find out? 
One of the included studies found that a general examination did not reduce sick leave among light duty workers compared to no intervention. However, another study found that army recruits were more fit for duty 12 months after a health examination. Results were inconsistent in five studies that compared job‐focused pre‐employment examinations with no health examination or with a general health examination. Pre‐employment examinations may also result in the rejection of a job applicant. In six studies the rates of rejecting job applicants because of health examinations increased, on average, from 2% to 35%, but not in one study. Two of the included 11 studies (including 2164 people) compared job applicants that were considered fit during the health examination to those who received particular recommendations to address health‐related issues based on the health examination. Both studies reported no difference in musculoskeletal injury rates between groups during follow‐up. This means that job applicants were able to take care of the health problems identified during their health examinations. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated all studied comparisons providing very low quality evidence.
Conclusions 
Health examinations that focus on health risks of particular jobs may be effective. Adequately dealing with potential health risks by changing work tasks or physical fitness training may also be effective. We need more and better quality evaluation studies. Not allowing people to work in certain jobs may have effects on their health. It also costs them money. Future research should assess both. 
