Memory rehabilitation in multiple sclerosis
Review question 
Do people with multiple sclerosis (MS) who received memory rehabilitation compared to those who received no treatment, or a placebo show better immediate‐, intermediate‐, or longer‐term outcomes in their: 
1. memory functions,
2. other cognitive abilities, and
3. functional abilities, in terms of activities of daily living, mood, and quality of life? 
Background 
People with multiple sclerosis (MS) often struggle with memory problems, which can lead to difficulties in everyday life. Memory rehabilitation is offered to help people cope with memory problems, enhance their ability to perform everyday activities, and to increase independence by reducing forgetting. Such rehabilitation can involve the use of specific techniques and strategies to change the way a person tries to remember, store, or retrieve memories. However, it is unclear whether memory rehabilitation is effective in reducing forgetting or improving performance of daily activities. Historically, there were few good‐quality studies that investigated the effectiveness of memory rehabilitation in people with MS, but lately there have been some larger studies. Therefore, we wanted to know whether the evidence of the effectiveness of memory rehabilitation has changed since the previous version of our review. 
Study characteristics 
This review included 44 studies with 2714 participants who received various types of memory retraining techniques, some using restorative techniques (e.g. computerised programmes) and others using compensatory approaches (e.g. memory aids such as diaries or calendars). 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Substantial progress has been made since the last update of this review, and the results from this review suggest that there is now evidence to support the use of memory rehabilitation in people with MS. Participants who had memory rehabilitation reported better memory functioning and quality of life compared to those who did not receive memory rehabilitation, and these differences were found immediately after the intervention was completed and for some time thereafter. However, those who received memory rehabilitation did not appear to improve in terms of their anxiety symptoms or daily activities. This update has added large, good‐quality studies on which to base our findings, so the evidence to support the effectiveness of memory rehabilitation is stronger than in the previous update. However, we still need large, good quality studies that examine the longer‐term impact of memory rehabilitation and studies that evaluate the cost‐effectiveness of memory rehabilitation in people with MS. 
