Which antibiotics are best to treat worsening symptoms in people with cystic fibrosis with persistent Burkholderia cepacia complex lung infection? 
Review question 
We looked for evidence of which antibiotics are best to treat a flare up of symptoms in people with cystic fibrosis with persistent Burkholderia cepacia complex lung infection. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is a common inherited condition where the lungs often become blocked with mucus. This harms the lungs' defences and often results in chronic, persistent infections that cannot be cleared by antibiotics. People with cystic fibrosis often need courses of antibiotics to reduce their symptoms (for instance cough, excess mucus and breathlessness) when these flare up or worsen. Such episodes are called exacerbations, and are usually treated with intravenous antibiotics (given through a drip into a vein). One group of bacteria that can infect the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis is called the Burkholderia cepacia complex. These closely‐related bacteria are found widely in the environment and do not cause infections in healthy people who do not have cystic fibrosis. They are particularly hard to treat as they are resistant to many commonly‐used antibiotics. Currently doctors do not know which antibiotics are best at treating these infections; which combinations of antibiotics should be used; how long the antibiotics should be used for; or whether there are additional treatments that might also help. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 29 May 2019.
Study characteristics 
We did not find any trials in people with exacerbations of cystic fibrosis who were infected with Burkholderia cepacia complex bacteria, where they were given different treatments at random. 
Key results 
More research is needed to find out which treatments are best for improving lung function and survival and for reducing side effects and length of time spent in hospital for people infected with Burkholderia cepacia complex bacteria experiencing an exacerbation. 
