Drug treatments for apathy in Alzheimer's disease
Review question 
We wanted to know whether there are any medications that are safe and effective for reducing apathy in people with Alzheimer's disease. 
Background 
Apathy is a state of reduced interest, lack of initiative and reduced activity. It is a very common symptom of Alzheimer's disease. It is often persistent and it is known to be linked to a lower quality of life, faster decline and more burden on caregivers. Effective treatments of apathy could improve the quality of life for people with Alzheimer's disease and their families. 
What we did 
We searched for randomized controlled trials (RCTs) up to May 2017 which had compared any medicine with a placebo (dummy pill) and measured the effect on apathy in people with Alzheimer's disease. We were only interested in trials in which it was decided randomly whether the people taking part got the drug of interest or the placebo; this was to make sure that the comparison was as fair as possible. 
What we found 
We found 21 RCTs involving more than 6300 people with Alzheimer’s disease. Four trials of two different medicines (methylphenidate and modafinil) had been done specifically to study apathy, so all the people taking part were known to be significantly apathetic before the trial started. The other 17 trials had other primary aims, but reported some data on apathy. The trials were generally well designed and conducted. From the three trials with methylphenidate, we found that it may improve apathy, although this depended on how the apathy was measured. The people taking methylphenidate also did slightly better than those taking placebo on scales measuring cognition (thinking, remembering, etc.) and some daily activities, but it was not clear that these effects were big enough to be important in practice. We found no evidence that it caused more side effects than placebo. The quality of this evidence was low or moderate, so we cannot be certain that other similar studies would not have different results. There was only one very small trial with modafinil and there was no evidence that it was effective for apathy. The other 17 trials studied a variety of medicines and included people who were not necessarily significantly apathetic to start with. We therefore thought they were only indirectly relevant to our review question. It is also highly likely that other trials of the same drugs have measured apathy but have not published the results, so we were concerned about possible publication bias (that the studies we found could have been a biased subset). We therefore thought the quality of evidence for all these other medicines was low or very low, meaning that we can have limited or little confidence in the results. 
