Antiplatelet versus anticoagulation treatment for patients with heart failure in sinus rhythm 
Background 
Blood clots can be formed by clotting proteins (coagulation factors) and sticky blood cells (platelets). Oral anticoagulants such as warfarin are drugs that can prevent clot formation by blocking the clotting proteins. Other drugs, like aspirin, can also reduce clotting by blocking the platelets. Warfarin is better than aspirin in patients with heart failure who have abnormal heart rhythm (atrial fibrillation). Aspirin is known to be helpful in patients with heart failure with normal (sinus) rhythm, whose heart arteries are narrowed. This condition is a common cause of heart failure, so doctors often advise patients with a normal rhythm to take aspirin. Arguably, people with heart failure with a normal rhythm are at increased risk of clotting due to slower blood flow in the heart, similarly to people with an abnormal rhythm. Also, blood clots (thromboembolism) in the lungs, legs and brain (ischaemic stroke) lead to disability and death of patients with heart failure. Several studies have tried to find out whether all heart failure patients should receive oral anticoagulants, but the debate is still open. 
Study characteristics 
This is an update of an earlier review. The evidence is current to September 2015. We only identified one new study with 2305 participants. In total, we analysed four randomised controlled studies with 4187 participants. 
Key results 
The comparison of warfarin with aspirin was based on a large number of patients from four high‐quality studies. The analysis showed an almost identical risk of death with both drugs. There was not enough evidence to prove benefits of warfarin over aspirin to reduce the possibility of clotting complications, such as a heart attack or stroke. However, patients receiving warfarin experienced serious bleeding twice as often as those taking aspirin. A comparison of warfarin with another antiplatelet drug, clopidogrel, was based on a single medium size study, and it showed similar results: no difference in occurrence of death or clotting complications, but a higher chance of developing of a serious bleed. 
