Clozapine combined with different antipsychotic drugs for treatment‐resistant schizophrenia
Background 
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness that includes symptoms of hallucinations (sensations that appear real but are created by a person's mind), delusions (unrealistic beliefs) and apathy (lack of interest) which can significantly impact on people's lives. The main treatment is with antipsychotic medicines; however, some people with schizophrenia do not respond to antipsychotic medicines (called treatment resistance), which is a major challenge in the management of schizophrenia. The antipsychotic medicine, clozapine, is an effective medicine to use if treatment resistance occurs; however, it can cause unwanted side effects that include drowsiness, dizziness, headache, tremor (shaking), and excessive salivation (mouth watering). A more serious side effect is the reduction in the number of white blood cells, which can lead to an increased risk of infection. Clozapine is often used in combination with other antipsychotic medicines for treatment‐resistant schizophrenia, and this review investigated the clinical effects and safety of various clozapine combinations. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trial's Register in August 2015 and January 2016 and found five clinical studies involving 309 adults diagnosed with schizophrenia or related illnesses who were resistant to treatment but had shown some response to clozapine. The studies compared clozapine combined with the antipsychotic medicines (haloperidol, aripiprazole, amisulpride, quetiapine, sulpiride, ziprasidone and risperidone). 
Key results 
It was not possible to perform an overall analysis because the five studies were too different. Therefore, all results were based on data from one study per comparison. 
Aripiprazole versus haloperidol combination: there was no overall difference in the effectiveness of the two treatment combinations; however, the aripiprazole combination caused fewer side effects. 
Amisulpride versus quetiapine combination: the amisulpride combination was more effective in treating schizophrenia in comparison with the quetiapine combination. 
Risperidone versus sulpiride combination: there were no overall differences in clinical effectiveness between these combinations. 
Risperidone versus ziprasidone combination: neither combination showed superiority over the other in improving the symptoms of schizophrenia. 
Ziprasidone versus quetiapine combination: the ziprasidone combination was more effective in improving both mental and global state than the quetiapine combination. 
Quality of the evidence 
The reliability of the evidence is questionable and was noted to be low or very low quality. Only a small number of studies, with limited data were available. No data were available for important measures such as quality of life and service use and no firm conclusions could be made. Further good‐quality evidence is needed. 
