What is the diagnostic accuracy of computer‐assisted diagnosis techniques for the detection of skin cancer in adults? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are a number of different types of skin cancer, including melanoma, squamous cell carcinoma (SCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC). Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms. If it is not recognised early treatment can be delayed and this risks the melanoma spreading to other organs in the body and may eventually lead to death. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and BCC are considered less dangerous, as they are localised (less likely to spread to other parts of the body compared to melanoma). However, cSCC can spread to other parts of the body and BCC can cause disfigurement if not recognised early. Diagnosing a skin cancer when it is not actually present (a false‐positive result) might result in unnecessary surgery and other investigations and can cause stress and anxiety to the patient. Missing a diagnosis of skin cancer may result in the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate computer–assisted diagnosis (CAD) is for diagnosing melanoma, BCC or cSCC. The review also compared the accuracy of two different types of CAD, and compared the accuracy of CAD with diagnosis by a doctor using a handheld illuminated microscope (a dermatoscope or ‘dermoscopy’). We included 42 studies to answer these questions. 
What was studied in the review? 
A number of tools are available to skin cancer specialists which allow a more detailed examination of the skin compared to examination by the naked eye alone. Currently a dermatoscope which magnifies the skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) using a bright light source is used by most skin cancer specialists. CAD tests are computer systems that analyse information about skin lesions obtained from a dermatoscope or other techniques that use light to describe the features of a skin lesion (spectroscopy) to produce a result indicating whether skin cancer is likely to be present. We included CAD systems that get their information from dermoscopic images of lesions (Derm–CAD), or that use data from spectroscopy. Most of the spectroscopy studies used data from multispectral imaging (MSI–CAD) and are the main focus here. When a skin cancer specialist finds a lesion is suspicious using visual examination with or without additional dermoscopy, results from CAD systems can be used alone to make a diagnosis of skin cancer (CAD–based diagnosis), or can be used by doctors in addition to their visual inspection examination of a skin lesion to help them reach a diagnosis (CAD–aided diagnosis). Researchers examined how useful CAD systems are to help diagnose skin cancers in addition to visual inspection and dermoscopy. 
