Antidepressants for pain management in rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the affect of antidepressants on pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
This review shows that in people with RA:
We are uncertain whether antidepressants affect pain or functional status because of the very low quality of the evidence. 
We are uncertain whether antidepressants affect functional status because of the very low quality of the evidence. 
No trials were found that evaluated whether antidepressants effect quality of life
No trials were found that evaluated whether antidepressants effect sleep
We are uncertain whether antidepressants affect mood because of the very low quality of the evidence 
We also do not have precise information about side effects and complications; this is particularly true for rare but serious side effects.  Possible side effects may include feeling tired or nauseous, headaches, blurred vision, a dry mouth, sexual dysfunction or becoming dizzy or constipated. Rare complications may include increased suicidal thinking, liver inflammation or a reduced white cell count.  
What is RA and what are antidepressants? 
When you have RA, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for RA at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. 
Antidepressants can be used to treat depression and promote sleep, and some people believe they may also reduce pain by acting on the nerves that cause pain, but this remains controversial. There are many types of antidepressant drugs, which act in different ways. When simple pain measures fail, physicians may prescribe antidepressants to provide pain relief, help with sleep and reduce depression. However, it remains unclear as to whether antidepressants actually reduce pain in this patient group, or whether any reduction in pain is instead related to improvements in sleep and mood. Currently there is conflicting scientific evidence to guide physicians, which leads to variations in practice. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with RA who take antidepressants 
Total adverse events:
27 more people out of 100 experienced an adverse event after up to 12 weeks of receiving an antidepressant (absolute difference 27%); 
59 out of 100 people who took antidepressants suffered an adverse event; and
32 out of 100 people who took a placebo suffered an adverse event.
