Oxygen therapy in the pre‐hospital setting for sudden worsening of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic condition characterised by progressively worsening reduction of airflow through the lungs. People with COPD are prone to sudden episodes where their symptoms become worse (e.g. persistent increase in shortness of breath and changes in mucous volume and consistency) and oxygen levels may fall. Initial treatment during these episodes, when patients are being transported to hospital, usually includes oxygen. However, delivering too much oxygen to these patients may cause a rise in the level of carbon dioxide that can eventually lead to a reduced breathing rate and possibly stop their ability to breathe at all. 
Review question 
This review aimed to investigate if oxygen therapy delivered at different concentrations based on patient needs would be less harmful, more harmful, or make no difference when compared to a control group using high‐flow oxygen. 
Study characteristics 
To investigate this question we looked for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), these are studies in which people involved have an equal chance of receiving the treatment or comparator. We were interested in trials that compared different flow rates (concentrations) of oxygen delivered in an ambulance to people being transferred to hospital because of sudden worsening of COPD symptoms. 
Key results 
Only one study was found that addressed the review question. The study randomised participants to either have titrated oxygen (oxygen therapy delivered at different concentrations tailored to patient needs in order to keep the levels of oxygen in the blood between 88% and 92%) or high‐flow oxygen (oxygen therapy delivered at a consistently high concentration). 
There were fewer deaths (two people) in the group that received titrated oxygen, compared to the control group using high‐flow oxygen delivered at eight to ten litres per minute using a mask (11 people). 
Certainty of evidence 
Due to inclusion of only one study, and the small number of deaths that occurred, our confidence in the size of the difference between the two treatments is limited. We judged the evidence to be of low certainty. 
Bottom line 
The one included study found that delivering individually tailored oxygen concentrations to people when they are being transported to hospital with sudden worsening of COPD, reduces the risk of death compared to using a consistently high concentration of oxygen. However, the body of evidence is too small to confidently claim that titrated oxygen is less harmful and more effective than high‐flow oxygen in this group of people across the board. 
This plain language summary is current to September 2019.
