Surgical versus non‐surgical treatment for thoracolumbar burst fractures without neurological deficit 
The thoracolumbar region of the spine is composed of the thoracic (middle back) and lumbar (lower back) spine. One type of spinal injury is the burst fracture where a vertebra (one of several bones making up the spine) is fractured (broken) such that it loses height on both its back and front sides. This sort of fracture occurs most frequently in the bones situated at the junction of the thoracic and lumbar spine. These injuries are usually the result of a high‐velocity accident such as a motor vehicle crash. These are serious injuries, particularly when the spinal cord is also damaged as this may result in the partial or complete loss of sensory and motor function in the legs, and bladder or bowel dysfunction. This review only included people whose nerve tissue was not damaged, although later damage could not be ruled out. People are treated in hospital either conservatively by being placed in a lying position that reduces strain on that part of the spine followed by fitting a cast or brace so that they can move around, or surgically by stabilising the affected part of the spine using various implants and procedures. 
We included data from two trials, which included 87 participants. The trials compared surgical with non‐surgical treatment for these fractures in the thoracolumbar region of the spine. Both trials had limitations in their methods that could reduce the reliability of their results. They reported contrasting results for patient pain and function at a minimum of two years after treatment. One study found patients had less pain and better function after surgery compared with patients who did not have surgery. The other trial found the opposite. Both trials found there were more early complications in the surgical group and only participants of this group had subsequent additional surgery. This involved the removal of the implant either to resolve a complication or routinely. One trial reported that surgery was over four times more costly than non‐surgical treatment. 
