Water precautions for prevention of infection in children with ventilation tubes (grommets)
Review question 
Is there is any evidence to show that keeping ears dry after ventilation tube (grommet) insertion helps to prevent problems such as infections? 
Background 
Ventilation tubes are used to treat hearing loss due to glue ear, or to treat recurrent ear infections. Most surgeons agree that children's ears should be kept dry for a few weeks after the operation, but not all agree on whether ears need to be kept dry thereafter. Some surgeons will allow children to swim and bathe without ear protection, whereas others will recommend ears be kept dry while tubes are in place. 
Study characteristics 
We included two studies, recruiting a total of 413 patients. One study looked at 201 children between six months and six years who had ventilation tubes inserted to treat glue ear or recurrent infections. Children were divided into two groups: one group was allowed to swim and bathe freely, the other group was instructed to wear ear plugs while swimming or bathing. Another study looked at 212 children between three months and 12 years who had ventilation tubes inserted (we do not know precisely what for). These children were divided into two groups: one group was allowed to swim and bathe freely, the other group was instructed not to swim and told to avoid putting their head under water when bathing. 
Children in both studies were followed for about one year to see how many ear infections they had and if there were any other problems. We do not have any reason to be concerned about who funded these studies. 
Key results 
The main result we looked for was the effect that keeping ears dry had on ear infections, specifically ear discharge. One study showed that there was a small reduction in the likelihood of getting an ear infection in children who protected their ears from water with ear plugs when swimming or bathing. The effect of wearing ear plugs was to reduce the number of infections a child would have every year (on average) from 1.2 to 0.84. We think the results from this study are quite reliable. 
Another study showed that there was no difference in the likelihood of children getting ear infections whether they were told to avoid swimming and putting their head under water, or whether they took no precautions at all. We are uncertain whether the results from this study are reliable. 
Neither study showed any other important differences between the children who got their ears wet and those who kept them dry. There was no effect on how long the tubes stayed in place or on hearing (although these results were only measured in one study). No harm to any participant was reported in either study. 
The evidence is current to September 2015.
Quality of the evidence 
We graded the quality of evidence for the use of ear plugs as low, which means that "further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate". 
We have graded the quality of evidence relating to water avoidance as very low ("we are very uncertain about the estimate"). 
Conclusion 
The difference that wearing ear plugs makes appears to be very small and a child would have to wear them on average for almost three years to prevent one infection resulting in ear discharge. 
