Exercise for rheumatoid arthritis of the hand
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what is exercise? 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a joint disease that frequently affects the hands and wrists. Hand exercise includes mobility, strengthening (with equipment, e.g. putty), or functional training. 
Study characteristics 
We found seven studies that compared hand exercise to non‐exercise therapies in 841 adults with rheumatoid arthritis. 
Key results 
On a 0‐to‐80‐points hand function test, (higher scores mean better function), people who did hand exercises rated their function 1.1 points higher in the short term (less than 3 months). People who did not exercise rated their function at 75 points. 
On a 0‐to‐100 scale (higher scores mean better function), compared with people who did not exercise, people who exercised rated their hand function 5 points higher in the medium term (3 to 11 months) and 4 points higher in the long term (12 months or beyond). People who did not exercise rated their function at 52.1 points. 
On a 0‐to‐100‐millimetre pain scale (lower scores mean less pain), people who exercised rated their pain 28mm lower in the short term. People who did not exercise rated their pain at 68mm. On a 0‐to‐100‐point scale (lower scores mean less pain), people who exercised rated their pain 3 points lower in the medium and 4 points lower in the long term. People who did not exercise rated their pain at 51.4 points. 
People who exercised had 3% and 4% improvement in the left and right‐hand grip strength in the short term. People who did not exercise measured 14.3 kg and 15.6 kg, respectively. People who exercised had 1% improvement in the average grip strength of both hands in both medium and long term. People who did not exercise measured 13.2 kg. 
People who exercised had 4% and 6% improvement in the left and right hand pinch strength in the short term. People who did not exercise measured 1.2 kg and 1.2 kg, respectively. People who exercised had 2% and 3% improvement in the average pinch strength of both hands in the medium and long term. People who did not exercise measured 4 kg. 
It must be noted that although there were apparently better scores in hand function, pain, and grip and pinch strength with hand exercise, these improvements may not equate to useful clinical benefits. 
No studies evaluated the American College of Rheumatology 50 criteria (a measure that indicates greater than or equal to 50% improvement in patient's symptoms with treatment received). 
Compared to participants who received usual care, those who also received hand exercises with strategies to stick with the programme were 19% and 5% more likely to adhere to their programme in less than a year and beyond one year. 
One study reported no adverse effects due to exercising. The remaining studies did not measure this outcome. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was very low to high across outcomes. We lowered the quality of the evidence due to problems with lack of blinding of participants to their allocated treatment and measurements, methods of allocation, and small study sizes. 
