Knee braces, sleeves or straps for treating anterior knee pain (patellofemoral pain syndrome) 
Background 
Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is a painful knee condition that frequently affects young, physically active people. It is characterised by pain either to the front of the knee or behind the patella (knee cap). It is suggested that this may be caused by faulty alignment of the knee cap during knee movements. To help, some physiotherapists provide or people may purchase knee braces, sleeves or straps (termed 'orthoses') believed to correct this faulty alignment. 
Review question 
We wanted to find out whether wearing knee orthoses in people with anterior knee pain reduces knee pain, improves knee function and increases the ability to do everyday activities and sports. We also wanted to find out whether there are adverse effects, such as skin problems, associated with using a knee orthosis. We also wanted to find out what is the best type of knee orthosis and whether wearing a knee orthosis is better than other types of intervention such as exercise. 
Study characteristics 
We searched electronic databases and other sources up to June 2015 and found five relevant studies that reported the results for 368 adults with PFPS. Participants were recruited from health clinics in three studies and were military trainees in the other two studies. All five studies were small and at high risk of bias, which means that their findings may not be reliable. 
The studies covered three different types of comparison: knee orthosis and exercises versus exercises alone; one type of orthosis versus another; and knee orthosis versus exercises. No study assessed the mode of knee orthosis use, such as whether the orthosis was worn all day or only during physical activity. 
Key results 
All five trials compared a knee orthosis (either sleeve, brace or strap) plus exercise versus exercise alone. These provided very low quality evidence that wearing a knee orthosis made no difference to knee pain (data from three studies) and function (data from two studies). None of the three studies reported on quality of life, resource use or participant satisfaction. One study reported that both participants quitting military training due to knee pain were allocated a knee orthosis. One poorly reported study found over a third of knees had discomfort or skin abrasion in those given a knee sleeve. 
