Psychological therapies (remotely‐delivered) for the management of chronic and recurrent pain in children and adolescents 
Background 
Experiencing long‐term pain during childhood is common. Children and adolescents (< 18 years of age) with long‐term pain often report intense pain which negatively impacts their lives. The pain can affect their ability to function physically, can limit their ability to go to school, and can leave them feeling anxious or depressed. The most common types of chronic pain in children and adolescents are headaches, recurrent abdominal pain, musculoskeletal pain, and back pain. Normally, a therapist, physically together with a patient or family (a method often called face‐to‐face) delivers psychological therapies, such as cognitive behavioural therapy (e.g. coping skills, activity pacing) or behavioural therapy (e.g. relaxation exercises). We know that face‐to‐face therapies can reduce pain intensity and improve physical functioning in children. Technology (e.g. the Internet, computer programmes, and smartphone applications) now allows therapy to be delivered without needing to be face‐to‐face with a therapist. Therapies delivered remotely promise to make treatments easier to access because they remove the need for travel. They may also be less expensive. 
We set out to understand if psychological therapies, delivered remotely using technology, can help children and adolescents with long‐term pain to have less pain, to improve physical functioning, and to have fewer symptoms of depression and anxiety, compared to children who are waiting to be treated (waiting‐list control), or being treated in other ways (active control, e.g. receiving education about long‐term pain). 
Study characteristics 
For this update, we conducted the search through to May 2018. We found 10 studies including 697 children and adolescents; four of these studies (326 participants) were new for this update. Four studies treated children with headache, one study treated children with juvenile idiopathic arthritis, one treated children with sickle cell disease, one included children with irritable bowel syndrome, and three studies included mixed samples of children, some who had headache and some with other chronic pain conditions. All studies delivered cognitive behavioural therapy. The average age of children receiving the interventions was 13 years. We looked at six outcomes: pain, physical functioning, depression, anxiety, side effects, and satisfaction with treatment. 
Key results 
We split the painful conditions into two groups and looked at them separately. The first group included children with headache. The second group included children with other painful conditions (e.g. frequent stomach pain, musculoskeletal pain), known as 'mixed chronic pain'. Psychological therapies delivered remotely (primarily via the Internet) were helpful at reducing pain for children and adolescents with headache when assessed immediately following treatment. However, we did not find a beneficial effect for these children at follow‐up. We found no beneficial effect of therapies for reducing pain intensity for children with other types of pain. Further, we did not find beneficial effects of remotely‐delivered therapies on physical functioning, depression, or anxiety post‐treatment for headache and mixed chronic pain conditions. However, there were limited data for mixed chronic pain conditions to draw conclusions from these outcomes, particularly at follow‐up. Satisfaction with treatment was described in the trials and was generally positive. Six trials described side effects which were not linked to receiving psychological therapies. 
Currently, there are very few studies investigating this treatment. Caution should be taken when interpreting these results as they are based on a small number of studies with few children. Further studies in this area are likely to change our findings and may show this to be a useful treatment for reducing pain and improving functioning in children with long‐term pain. 
