How do vitamins E and C, beta‐carotene, selenium and glutathione affect lung disease in people with cystic fibrosis? 
Background 
Frequent chest infections cause long‐term lung inflammation; inflammation‐causing cells produce an oxygen molecule (reactive oxygen species (ROS)), which may harm body tissue (oxidative damage); the body uses antioxidants to protect itself. People with cystic fibrosis (CF) have high levels of ROS compared to low levels of antioxidants. Antioxidant supplements might reduce oxidative damage and build up levels of antioxidants. 
Given difficulties in absorbing fat, people with CF have low levels of fat‐soluble antioxidants (vitamin E and beta‐carotene). Water‐soluble vitamin C decreases with age in people with CF. Glutathione, one of the most abundant antioxidants in cells, is not released properly into the lungs of people with CF. Some enzymes that help antioxidants work depend on the mineral selenium, so selenium supplements aim to stimulate antioxidant action. 
Most supplements are swallowed, but glutathione and N‐acetylcysteine (NAC) (which the body uses to make glutathione) can also be inhaled; these may affect lung function as antioxidants, but also due to thinning mucus when inhaled (allowing easier mucus clearance). 
Search date 
Last search for this updated review: 08 January 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included 20 studies (924 people with CF, almost equal gender split, aged six months to 59 years); 16 studies compared oral supplements to placebo ('dummy' treatment) and four compared inhaled supplements to placebo. 
Key results 
Oral supplements 
We are uncertain whether NAC changes lung function (forced expiratory volume in one second (FEV1) % predicted) at three months (four studies, 125 participants, very low‐quality evidence), but at six months two studies (109 participants) reported NAC probably improved FEV1 % predicted (moderate‐quality evidence). One study (46 participants) reported a greater change in FEV1 % predicted with placebo than with a combined vitamin and selenium supplement after two months. One study (61 participants) reported little or no difference in quality of life (QoL) scores between NAC and control after six months (moderate‐quality evidence), but the two‐month combined vitamin and selenium study reported slightly better QoL scores in the control group. NAC probably made no difference to body mass index (BMI) (one study, 62 participants, moderate‐quality evidence). One study (69 participants) reported that a mixed vitamin and mineral supplement may lead to a lower risk of pulmonary exacerbation at six months than a multivitamin supplement (low‐quality evidence). Nine studies (366 participants) did not find any clear and consistent differences in side effects between groups (evidence ranged from low to moderate quality). Vitamin E and β‐carotene studies consistently reported greater levels of these antioxidants in blood samples. 
Inhaled supplements 
In two studies (258 participants), inhaled glutathione probably improved FEV1 % predicted compared to placebo at three months but not at six months (moderate‐quality evidence); these studies also reported a greater improvement in FEV1 litres with glutathione compared to placebo at both time points. Two studies (258 participants) found little or no difference in the change in QoL scores (moderate‐quality evidence). One two‐month study (16 participants) and a 12‐month study (105 participants) reported no difference between groups in the change in BMI. There was no difference in the time to the first pulmonary exacerbation in one six‐month study. Two studies (223 participants) reported no difference between groups in side effects (low‐quality evidence) and another study (153 participants) reported that the number of serious side effects were similar across groups. 
Conclusions 
Vitamin and mineral supplements do not seem to improve clinical outcomes. Inhaled glutathione appears to improve lung function, while oral administration lowers oxidative stress, with benefits to lung function and nutritional measures. Intensive antibiotic and other concurrent treatments for people with CF and chronic infection mean it is difficult to assess the effect of antioxidants without a very large and long study. Future research should look at how antioxidants affect people with CF taking CFTR modulator therapies. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence ranged from very low to moderate quality. All but one study had some bias; mostly because data were not fully reported (likely to affect our results). We were also largely unsure if participants knew which treatment they received, both in advance and once the studies started (unsure how this might affect our results). 
