Fewer‐than‐four ports versus four ports for laparoscopic cholecystectomy
Background 
About 10% to 15% of the adult Western population have gallstones. Between 1% and 4% become symptomatic each year. Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the main stay treatment for symptomatic gallstones. More than half a million cholecystectomies are performed per year in the United States alone. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of gallbladder through a key‐hole‐sized incision, also known as port) is now the preferred method of cholecystectomy. In conventional or standard laparoscopic cholecystectomy (key hole removal of gallbladder), four ports (two of 10‐mm diameter and two of 5‐mm diameter) are usually used. The use of fewer ports has been reported (fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy). However, the safety of fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy and whether it offers any advantages over four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy is not known. We sought to answer this question by reviewing the medical literature and obtaining information from randomised clinical trials commonly called randomised controlled trials. When conducted well, such studies provide the most accurate information. Two review authors searched the literature to September 2013 and obtained information from the trials, thereby minimising errors. 
Study characteristics 
We identified nine trials that compared fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy with four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. In these nine studies, 855 participants were included. Four hundred and twenty seven participants underwent fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy while the remaining 428 participants underwent four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The choice of the treatment that the participants received was determined by a method similar to toss of a coin so that the two treatments were given to participants with similar characteristics. Most of these studies included low anaesthetic risk patients undergoing planned laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
Key results 
Fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy could be completed successfully in more than 90% of participants in most of the trials. The remaining participants were mostly converted to four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy but some participants had to undergo open cholecystectomy (through a large incision in the abdomen). There was no mortality in either group in the seven trials that reported mortality (634 participants in the two groups). There was no significant difference in the proportion of participants who developed serious complications, quality of life between 10 and 30 days after operation, proportion of participants in whom the laparoscopic operation had to be converted to open cholecystectomy, or in the length of hospital stay between the groups. Fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy took about 15 minutes longer to complete than four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. The time taken to return to normal activity was one day shorter and time taken to return to work two days shorter in the fewer‐than‐four‐ports group compared with four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. There was no significant difference in the cosmetic appearance between the two groups at 6 to 12 months after surgery. There appears to be no advantage of fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy in terms of decreasing surgical complications, hospital stay, or in improving quality of life and cosmetic appearance. In contrast, the safety of fewer‐than‐four port laparoscopic cholecystectomy is yet to be established. Fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy cannot be recommended routinely outside well‐designed clinical trials. 
Quality of evidence 
Most of the trials were of high risk of bias, that is, there is possibility of arriving at wrong conclusions because of the way that the trial was conducted. The overall quality of evidence was very low. 
Future research 
Further well‐designed randomised clinical trials (which have low probability to arrive at wrong conclusions because of chance and because of participant or researcher prejudice) are necessary to determine whether fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy is safe and whether there is any advantage of fewer‐than‐four‐ports laparoscopic cholecystectomy over four‐port laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 
