Interventions for children and adolescents who self‐harm
We have reviewed the international literature regarding psychosocial interventions, pharmacological (drug), and natural product (dietary supplementation) treatment trials in the field. A total of 17 trials meeting our inclusion criteria were identified. There is little evidence of beneficial effects for individual cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT)‐based psychotherapy, mentalisation‐based therapy for adolescents (MBT‐A), group‐based psychotherapy, enhanced assessment approaches, compliance enhancement approaches, family interventions, or remote contact interventions. There is some evidence of effectiveness for dialectical behaviour therapy (DBT‐A) for adolescents. However, few trials have been conducted and those that have are generally small, meaning that possible beneficial effects of some of these therapies cannot be ruled out. 
Why is this review important? 
Self‐harm (SH), which includes intentional self‐poisoning/overdose and self‐injury, is a major problem in many countries and is strongly linked with suicide. It is therefore important that effective treatments for SH patients are developed. There has been an increase in the use of interventions for SH in children and adolescents. It is therefore important to assess the evidence for their effectiveness. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Hospital administrators (e.g. service providers), health policy officers and third party payers (e.g. health insurers), clinicians working with patients who engage in SH, patients themselves, and their relatives. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review is an update of a previous Cochrane Review from 2015 which found little evidence of beneficial effects of interventions for SH in children and adolescents. This updated review aims to further evaluate the evidence for effectiveness of interventions for children and adolescents with SH with a broader range of outcomes. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
To be included in the review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials of either psychosocial or drug treatments for children and adolescents up to 18 years of age who had recently engaged in SH. 
