Does the prescription of low‐calorie (hypocaloric) nutrition support improve the recovery of critically‐ill adult patients? 
Review question 
Does low‐calorie nutrition delivered into the stomach or small intestine (enteral), or into a vein (parenteral) improve clinical outcomes in critically‐ill adults admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU), when compared with standard calorie nutrition support? 
The main outcomes were death (in the hospital, in the ICU and at 30 days); length of ICU and hospital stay; infectious complications and length of time the person was mechanically ventilated (a machine used in ICU to help a person breath) . 
Background 
Critically‐ill people experience major metabolic changes (one chemical is transformed through a series of steps into another chemical) during injury or sepsis (a life‐threatening condition in which the body's response to infection causes injury to its own organs). They receive nutritional support to prevent or minimize some adverse effects. Nevertheless, both overfeeding and starvation can be harmful. 
There is currently no agreement about the amount of calories we should give to these critically‐ill people. Normal caloric feeding provides the estimated caloric needs. Hypocaloric feeding provides an intentionally lower amount of calories. 
Study characteristics 
We included 15 trials with 3129 ICU surgical or medical participants from academic hospitals. Four studies used parenteral nutrition and nine studies used only enteral nutrition. The route was unclear in the remaining two studies. While the studies planned to give different amounts of calories in the experimental and control groups, the actual difference in calories was small. Most studies were funded by the US government or non‐governmental associations, but three studies received funding from the industry. Five studies did not state how they were funded. 
Key results 
The differences in the type of nutrition and type of participants across studies did not allow us to combine study results, so we describe the range of results across the individual studies. 
