Excimer laser versus phakic intraocular lenses for the correction of moderate to high short‐sightedness 
Background  Myopia is a condition in which the focusing power (refraction) of the eye is greater than that required for clear vision of distant objects. Myopia is a common cause of visual disability throughout the world. The World Health Organization (WHO) has grouped myopia and uncorrected refractive error among the leading causes of blindness and vision impairment in the world. The overall power of the lens that would be needed to correct the myopia is expressed in diopters (D) of a sphere. Most people have some degree of astigmatism where the eye is better at focusing light in one meridian than it is at another. It is possible to combine the effect of any astigmatism with the overall focusing power of the eye as a spherical equivalent in diopters. There are two main types of surgical correction for moderate to high myopia; excimer laser and phakic intraocular lenses (IOLs). Excimer laser refractive surgery for myopia works by removing corneal stroma to lessen the refractive power of the cornea and to bring the image of a viewed object into focus onto the retina rather than in front of it. Phakic IOLs for the treatment of myopia work by diverging light rays so that the image of a viewed object is brought into focus onto the retina rather than in front of it. They can be placed either in the anterior chamber of the eye in front of the iris or in the posterior chamber of the eye between the iris and the natural lens. 
Study characteristics  This review included three randomised controlled trials with a total of 228 eyes. The range of myopia of included patients was ‐6.0 D to ‐20.0 D with up to 4.0 D of myopic astigmatism. 
Key results  The results of this review showed that the chance of the uncorrected visual acuity being 20/20 or better was not different between the two groups. Phakic IOL surgery was safer than excimer laser surgical correction for moderate to high myopia as it results in significantly less loss of best spectacle corrected visual acuity (BSCVA) at 12 months postoperatively. Phakic IOL surgery appears to result in better contrast sensitivity than excimer laser correction for moderate to high myopia. Phakic IOL surgery also scored more highly on patient satisfaction/preference questionnaires. Neither technique resulted in any complication that caused a loss of final BSCVA. 
Quality of the evidence  Only studies that fulfilled the proper requirements were selected for inclusion in the analysis. The limitations of the studies that we included were the relatively short follow up period of one year as well as the fact that many of the interventions studied have now been superseded by more technologically advanced alternatives. In the present day the technology available for both excimer laser and phakic IOL surgical correction of high myopia is better than during the period of the included studies. 
Conclusion  This review showed that phakic IOLs for the treatment of high myopia were safer and preferred by patients when compared with excimer laser. Studies looking at more up to date technology with longer follow to determine long term safety issues are needed. 
