Addition of d‐cycloserine to cognitive and behavioural therapies for the treatment of anxiety and related disorders 
Why is this review important? 
Many people suffer from anxiety and related disorders (post‐traumatic stress disorder, social anxiety disorder, panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, specific phobia and obsessive compulsive disorder). These disorders are disabling and can affect a person’s ability to function well at work and in social situations. Current treatment options include talking therapies such as cognitive and behavioural therapies. Many patients, however, do not respond as well as hoped to these treatments. Using cognitive and behavioural therapies in combination with certain medicines, for example d‐cycloserine (DCS), is one option that may improve treatment response. In this review we examined the evidence for DCS combined with cognitive behavioural therapies as a treatment for anxiety and related disorders in children, adolescents and adults. 
Who may be interested in this review? 
‐ People with anxiety and related disorders.
‐ Families and friends of people who suffer from anxiety and related disorders.
‐ General practitioners, psychiatrists, psychologists and pharmacists.
‐ Professionals working in adult as well as child and adolescent mental health services.
What does this review aim to answer? 
‐ Is treatment with DCS in combination with cognitive and behavioural therapies more effective than treatment with placebo (dummy pill) and cognitive and behavioural therapies for anxiety and related disorders? 
‐ Is treatment with a combination of DCS and cognitive and behavioural therapies more effective in some anxiety and related disorders compared to others? 
‐ How acceptable is DCS to patients and do people withdraw from treatment?
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched medical databases to find reports of clinical trials (specifically randomised controlled trials) published up to 12 March 2015 that investigated the treatment of anxiety and related disorders using DCS combined with cognitive and behavioural therapies. To be included in the review, trials had to compare the combined treatment of DCS and a cognitive and behavioural therapy with combined treatment of a placebo and a cognitive and behavioural therapy for anxiety and related disorders. We included studies with participants of all ages. 
We included 21 studies in the review, with a total of 788 participants.
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There was no evidence of a difference between combined treatment with DCS and cognitive and behavioural therapies, and combined treatment with placebo and cognitive and behavioural therapies for anxiety and related disorders in children, adolescents or adults. This conclusion was based on low quality evidence mainly due to small sample sizes and inconsistency across studies. 
There was no evidence of a difference in the number of children, adolescents and adults who withdrew from treatment with DCS in addition to cognitive behavioural therapies, and those who withdrew from treatment with placebo in addition to psychological therapies. 
What should happen next? 
More trials are needed to enable a clearer understanding of the effect of treatment with DCS in combination with cognitive and behavioural therapies. 
