Endoscopic release for carpal tunnel syndrome
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about how safe and effective endoscopic carpal tunnel release (ECTR) is, compared to any other type of surgery for carpal tunnel syndrome (CTS). 
Background 
CTS is the most common cause of nerve compression in the arm. The carpal tunnel is the space between a ligament that stretches across the wrist and the bones below. In CTS there is increased pressure on a nerve (the median nerve) as it passes over the wrist towards the palm of the hand through the carpal tunnel. To release the pressure on the nerve in the carpal tunnel, surgeons cut the ligament. This operation can be done as traditional ‘open’ surgery (OCTR), or through an endoscope (ECTR), using a small camera with one or two small cuts in the skin. 
We searched widely for trials that compared ECTR with other types of surgery.
Study characteristics 
We found 28 studies, involving 2586 people, that were suitable for the review. We considered results at less than three months and more than three months after surgery. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
With support from low quality evidence only, OCTR and ECTR are about as effective as each other in relieving symptoms and improving hand function in CTS. ECTR probably has lower rates of minor complications (such as scar pain and infections) than OCTR but similar rates of major complications. ECTR also allows a faster return to work or daily activities. However, limitations in the studies in this review limit the quality of this evidence. 
Only one study declared a conflict of interest and nine studies clearly reported no conflict of interest. Four studies were funded from an academic source. Evaluation following the GRADE assessment reveals a low to moderate quality of evidence for the outcomes provided. 
The evidence in the review is current to November 2012. We re‐ran the search shortly before publication and we will fully assess three further studies from this search when the review is updated. 
