Interventions for supporting family and friends of patients at the end of life
Family and friends are often central to the care of patients at the end of life. While providing such informal care can generate strong positive emotions, caring can be extremely stressful both mentally and physically. Support strategies are being developed. These can involve, for example, advice on caring and practical support. However, it is unclear if these strategies are beneficial. 
We conducted our review through searches for studies that were randomised controlled trials and that evaluated an intervention to support family and/or friends of patients at the end of life. 
We found 11 trials involving 1836 caregiver participants in total. The trials commonly evaluated an intervention that provided emotional support and advice on coping. Two studies aimed to help support the family and friends indirectly by addressing the needs of the patient. Apart from one trial providing patient care, none provided practical support. Trials compared those who received the intervention with those who did not, to see if the intervention helped the family, family member or friend cope with their caring role. Trials commonly evaluated the intervention by measuring whether it improved the caregiver's general wellbeing. 
The review found that interventions that directly support the family and/or friends help them to cope emotionally, and may help them to cope with their role in caring and improve their quality of life. There were few assessments of the impact of the interventions on physical health; one study found overall no difference in sleep improvement. No study looked at whether the interventions increased or decreased the carers' health service use or looked for potential harms, although higher levels of family conflict was identified in some participants in one trial. Interventions that aimed to help support the family and/or friends indirectly via patient care, may also help them cope emotionally. There were no assessments on whether the indirect interventions helped them cope with their role in caring, improved quality of life, increased or decreased their health service use, or had potential harms. In one of these trials there was no difference in caregiver physical health between those whose friend or relative had received the additional patient care, and those who had not. The findings of some studies included in this review may be at risk of bias, because they under‐report key design features and may have been conducted poorly. 
