Chemotherapy after surgery for early stage non‐small cell lung cancer
Review question 
Do patients with non‐small cell lung cancer live longer if they are given chemotherapy after surgery? 
Background 
Non‐small cell lung cancer is the most common type of lung cancer. If the tumour is early stage, not too big and has not spread to other parts of the body, doctors usually operate to remove it. At the same time, they will also remove a bit of the lung, or the entire lung that has the tumour. They may also give radiotherapy (treatment with x‐rays) after the operation, aiming to kill any remaining cancer cells. They may also give chemotherapy (drug treatment) after surgery to lower the risk of the cancer coming back. This treatment is called adjuvant chemotherapy.  In 1995, we did a systematic review and meta‐analysis of individual participant data looking at adjuvant chemotherapy and surgery (with or without radiotherapy). It brought together information from all patients who took part in similar trials. These trials compared what happened to people with non‐small cell lung cancer who were given chemotherapy after surgery (with or without radiotherapy) with those who had surgery without chemotherapy (with or without radiotherapy). We found that it was not clear whether chemotherapy helped patients with non‐small cell lung cancer live longer.  Since this study was completed, many new trials have been done. Therefore, we carried out a new systematic review and meta‐analysis of individual participant data that included all trials, old and new. This study aimed to find out if giving chemotherapy after surgery (with or without radiotherapy) can a) help patients live longer, b) stop the cancer coming back (recurrence), and c) stop the cancer spreading to other parts of the body (metastases). 
We carried out two studies called meta‐analyses that included patients with non‐small cell lung cancer that took part in randomised controlled trials comparing: 
a) surgery versus surgery plus adjuvant chemotherapy; and
b) surgery plus radiotherapy versus surgery plus radiotherapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy.
Results were first published in the Lancet in 2010.
Study characteristics 
We searched for relevant trials up to December 2013. The studies brought together trial data from all over the world with 26 trials (34 trial comparisons) and 8447 patients in the first meta‐analysis (surgery versus surgery plus adjuvant chemotherapy); and 12 trials (13 trial comparisons) and 2660 patients in the second meta‐analysis (surgery plus radiotherapy versus surgery plus radiotherapy plus adjuvant chemotherapy). Trials were carried out between 1979 and 2003. 
Key results 
Results found that people with non‐small cell lung cancer that had surgery followed by chemotherapy (with or without radiotherapy), lived longer than those who had surgery without chemotherapy (with or without radiotherapy).  After five years, 64 out of every 100 patients who were given chemotherapy after surgery were alive compared to 60 patients out of every 100 who just had surgery. For those who also received radiotherapy, after five years, 33 out of every 100 patients who received chemotherapy, surgery and radiotherapy were alive compared to 29 out of every 100 patients who received surgery and radiotherapy. 
