Ultrasound during pregnancy for predicting differences in birth weight between twins
Background 
Birth weight differences of more than 20% in twins is associated with poor outcomes for the mother and baby. Clinicians measure the estimated fetal weight differences by ultrasound before birth and compare it to differences in birth weight after the babies are born. In this review, we summarized data on whether the ultrasound measurements are accurate enough to predict birth weight differences in twins. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases to March 2019 for studies comparing ultrasound measurements to birth weight differences and we identified 39 studies. Twenty‐two studies provided data on birth weight differences of 20% and 18 studies provided data on birth weight differences of 25%. 
Quality of the evidence 
We assessed the quality of individual studies using a tool called "Quality Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies" (QUADAS‐2) and the overall quality by a recommended method called GRADE to find out the reliability of the evidence. 
Key results 
We found that ultrasound estimation of fetal weight differences compared to birth weight differences was not reliable. On average, ultrasound detected birth weight differences of 20% and 25% only half the time. The quality of evidence was very low. 
There is insufficient evidence to support the use of ultrasound as the sole measure for detecting birth weight differences in twins, or poor outcomes. The diagnostic accuracy of other measures including amniotic fluid volume (the fluid surrounding the babies in the womb) or Doppler studies (which use sound waves to detect the movement of blood in the babies' blood vessels and the umbilical cord) in combination with ultrasound to inform clinical decisions needs to be evaluated. Future well‐designed studies could also research the impact of whether the babies share a placenta (or not), the sex of the babies, and gestational age (time from woman's last menstrual period), in the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound for estimated birth weight differences. 
