For people with uncontrolled asthma on inhaled steroids, is it better to increase the dose or add a long‐acting muscarinic antagonist? 
We don't yet know whether adding LAMA to ICS is better or worse than increasing the dose of ICS. It is important that future studies include a treatment group for people given a double dose of ICS, because this is an option for doctors treating people with asthma. 
Why is the question important? 
Physicians treating patients with asthma that is not adequately controlled by inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) can either increase the dose of steroids or add another type of treatment. One type of drug that can complement ICS are long‐acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMAs), which are effective in treating other lung diseases and are starting to become available for treating asthma. Increasing the dose of ICS can cause unwanted side effects such as weakened bones, sleep problems and anxiety, so adding a LAMA to existing doses of ICS may be an effective alternative. 
How did we answer the question? 
Two people looked for published and unpublished research in several databases and websites to find relevant studies comparing LAMA plus ICS with increased doses of ICS for asthma in adults. We analysed the results available up to April 2015 in this systematic review. 
What did we find? 
We found one study involving 210 patients with asthma. The trial compared adding tiotropium (a LAMA) to doubling the dose of beclomethasone (a steroid). 
In the trial, people taking a combination of the LAMA and ICS were slightly less likely to have an asthma attack needing treatment with oral steroids. Our results suggest that for every 1000 people, 18 fewer in the LAMA group would need these treatments compared to patients treated with an increased dose of ICS. However, there is a relatively wide margin of error in this estimate, and the actual number of patients on LAMA who might need steroids because of an asthma attack could range from 52 fewer to 26 more people per 1000. Similarly, neither option was more clearly beneficial on any of the following measures: asthma attacks resulting in hospitalisation or admission to the emergency department, serious adverse events, control of asthma or quality of life related to asthma. On the other hand, LAMA plus ICS might improve lung function a bit more than increasing ICS dose. 
We didn't have much confidence in the findings because the one included study only looked at one type of LAMA (tiotropium) for a short period of time (14 weeks). 
