What are the benefits and risks of surgery for epiretinal membrane (a disease of the eye)? 
Why is this question important?An epiretinal membrane is an abnormal layer of tissue that develops at the back of the eye. It affects around one in five people aged 75 years and older. In most people, the development of an epiretinal membrane is linked to the normal ageing processes in the eye and is described as 'idiopathic'. In other instances, epiretinal membrane is caused by a pre‐existing condition affecting the retina, such as inflammation or poor circluation. Epiretinal membrane can also develop after eye surgery. 
Epiretinal membrane typically forms over the part of the eye responsible for seeing fine detail (the macula). In some people, this does not affect vision. In others, it causes distorted or blurred vision, which can affect people’s quality of life. For example, an epiretinal membrane may impair people’s ability to read or drive. 
If an epiretinal membrane affects vision, it is commonly removed by surgery. A local anaesthetic (medication) is used to numb the eye area. As with any procedure, this surgery carries risks of harm from side effects. These include potential problems such as cataract, detached retina, infection and bleeding in the eye. 
To understand when the benefits of surgery outweigh its risks, we reviewed the research evidence. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?First, we searched the medical literature for studies: 
‐ in which epiretinal membrane was not caused by a pre‐existing condition or surgery;
‐ that compared the effects of surgery against no surgery or a placebo (sham) procedure; and 
‐ where people were randomly assigned to one of two groups: a group that underwent surgery for epiretinal membrane, and a group that did not have surgery for epiretinal membrane. 
We then summarised the evidence and rated our confidence in it, based on factors such as study methods and size. 
What did we find?We found only one study that met our criteria. This study took place in Denmark and included 53 people who had epiretinal membranes causing mild impairment of sight. Participants were randomly assigned to one of two groups. Those in one group had immediate surgery. Those in the other group were watched closely and in the event of any deterioration in their condition were invited to have surgery. People in both groups were followed up for one year. 
The study results suggest that immediate surgery for epiretinal membrane causing mild impairment of sight: 
‐ may not benefit vision 12 months after surgery; and
‐ may not lead to serious unwanted effects. One person treated with immediate surgery experienced an unwanted effect that was not considered serious. This was the development of an eye condition caused by fluid building up at the back of the eye. 
The study did not investigate the impact of surgery on participants’ quality of life.
How confident are we in the evidence?We are not confident in the evidence, because: 
‐ it is based on one small study; and
‐ some of the methods used by the researchers who conducted it may have introduced errors in its results. 
What does this mean?For epiretinal membrane causing severe disabling impairment of sight, we found no carefully‐controlled study that measured the effect of surgery. For severe epiretinal membrane, surgery is widely considered to improve the outcome and is routine practice. A carefully controlled trial comparing surgery to no treatment is considered unecessary and ethically inappropriate. 
