Treatment for women with iron deficiency anaemia after childbirth
Anaemia is a condition where the blood contains less than normal haemoglobin (low blood count), as shown in blood tests. Haemoglobin is the molecule within red blood cells that requires iron to carry oxygen. Insufficient iron intake/uptake and iron loss (bleeding) can cause iron deficiency anaemia. Anaemia symptoms include tiredness, shortness of breath and dizziness. Women may bleed severely at childbirth and many pregnant women already have anaemia, which can worsen as a result of bleeding. Severe anaemia can be linked to maternal deaths. Iron deficiency anaemia after childbirth is more likely to occur in low‐income countries. 
Treatment for iron deficiency anaemia includes iron tablets or a solution injected into a vein (intravenously). Another option is to restore red blood cells through transfusion with blood from a blood donor or to boost red blood cell formation with erythropoietin. It is important to investigate if one treatment is better than another in relieving anaemia symptoms, and whether the treatment options are safe. 
We included 22 randomised controlled studies with 2858 women and performed 13 comparisons, many of which were based on few studies involving small numbers of women. The overall quality of evidence was low. Most trials were conducted in high‐income countries. 
Ten studies, including 1553 women, compared intravenous iron with oral iron. Only one study showed a temporary positive effect on fatigue for intravenous iron. Other anaemia symptoms were not reported. One woman died from heart complications in the intravenous group. Only two studies reported on maternal deaths. Allergic reactions occurred in three women, and heart complications in two women in the intravenous group. Gastrointestinal symptoms were frequent in the oral group and caused some participants to abandon treatment. 
One study compared red blood cell transfusion with no transfusion. Some (but not all) fatigue scores temporarily improved in the transfused women. Maternal mortality was not reported. 
When comparing oral iron to placebo (three studies), anaemia symptoms were not reported. It remains unknown whether benefits of oral iron outweigh documented gastrointestinal harms. 
