Are combined aclidinium and long‐acting beta2‐agonist inhalers effective and safe for people with stable COPD? 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a disease of the lungs that causes airways to narrow. As a result, people with COPD experience symptoms of breathlessness and cough with sputum production which worsen over time. It is mainly caused by smoking or inhaling dust. In people with COPD, inhalers that contain medicines to widen the airways are generally given to relieve symptoms. Long‐acting medicines whose action lasts for at least half a day or one day are preferred. Aclidinium and formoterol (a long‐acting beta2‐agonist medicine) are such inhalers. We wanted to find out how a combination of aclidinium and long‐acting beta2‐agonist fare against either inhaler alone and dummy (placebo) inhaler. 
Study characteristics 
We could only identify studies on aclidinium and formoterol combination and included seven studies involving 5921 people with COPD which ranged from four weeks to one year long. Most participants were men in their 60s, moderate‐to‐heavy smokers, around half of whom were current smokers. They had moderate‐to‐severe symptoms of COPD when they started treatment. People in the studies took either combined inhalers containing aclidinium and formoterol or aclidinium or formoterol or placebo through a similar inhaler. Both people doing the research and people in the study did not know which treatment participants were getting. The conclusions of this review are current to October 2018. 
Key results 
People taking combined inhaler and aclidinium inhaler were not different in terms of flare‐ups that need additional medicines, quality of life, hospitalisations, side effects or serious side effects. However, they were less breathless than those taking aclidinium inhaler. Fourteen people with COPD would need to be treated with combined inhalers to have one additional person with a clinically significant improvement in breathlessness. 
