Adding iodine to foods, other than salt, to prevent diseases caused by inadequate iodine intake 
Background and review question 
Many people around the world do not consume enough iodine. This is a problem because iodine is important for normal childhood growth and brain development, and for ensuring a healthy adult population. Inadequate intake of iodine can lead to health problems, such as intellectual disability and goitre (enlargement of the thyroid gland). Currently, the main strategy to increase the amount of iodine consumed in populations recommended by the World Health Organization is adding iodine to salt. However, in some areas where salt is not the major condiment, adding iodine to other foods has also been explored. The aim of our study was to examine the effect of adding iodine to foods, beverages, condiments, or seasonings, other than salt, on iodine nutrition status and health‐related outcomes in all populations. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for articles from different sources including published research papers, unpublished reports, and through direct communication with experts and organisations working to address iodine and micronutrient deficiency. We last searched the databases in January 2018. 
Eleven studies, which captured data on 4317 participants (3636 children, 648 women of reproductive age, and 33 infants), met our inclusion criteria. The type of foods used as vehicle to deliver iodine differed between the studies, and included biscuits, milk, fish sauce, drinking water, yoghourt, fruit beverage, seasoning powder, and infant formula milk. The amount of iodine provided to participants ranged from 35 µg/day to 220 µg/day, and study duration ranged from 11 days to 48 weeks. Of the 11 studies included, five examined the effect of adding iodine alone to foods compared to either no intervention or the same foods without iodine; while six evaluated the effect of adding iodine plus other micronutrients to foods compared to the same foods without iodine, but with different levels of other micronutrients. 
Key results 
No study evaluated the effect of adding iodine to foods on death, mental development, cognitive function, cretinism (a condition characterized by impaired control of physical movement and intellectual disability), hypothyroidism (underactive thyroid), thyroid‐stimulating hormone concentration, or serum thyroglobulin concentration (these are biological markers that indicate the presence of iodine deficiency when concentration in the blood is high). 
Two studies reported on the effect of the intervention on goitre, one study assessed five physical development measures (weight, height, weight‐for‐age, height‐for‐age, and weight‐for‐height scores), and one examined adverse effects. All studies assessed urinary iodine concentration (the concentration of iodine secreted in the urine, which indicates the presence of iodine deficiency when concentration is low in a population group, rather than in an individual). We combined the data that met our requirements in these studies in a meta‐analysis. 
We are uncertain of the effects of iodine fortification on the proportion of participants with goitre, or on any of the five physical development measures. One study reported narratively that no adverse effects were observed during the trial. We found a significant increase of 38.32 µg/L in urinary iodine concentration after adding iodine to foods, compared to the groups that did not have iodine added, from studies of higher quality. 
Quality of the evidence 
Using GRADE, we rated the quality of the evidence as very low for goitre and physical development measures, due to study limitations (risk of bias) and imprecise results, and low for adverse events due to indirectness and imprecise results. We rated the quality of the evidence for urinary iodine concentration, from studies in which participants were allocated to treatment groups at random (gold standard design for clinical research), as moderate. On the other hand, quality of the evidence for urinary iodine concentration from studies without this random element was rated as very low, due to study limitations and imprecise results. 
Conclusion 
Overall, there is no clear evidence on the effect of the intervention on reducing the proportion of people with goitre, improving physical growth, or adverse events. However, our results show that adding iodine to foods likely increases urinary iodine concentration. Additional studies to better quantify the effect of the intervention on these outcomes, as well as other outcomes, are needed. 
