Parent‐mediated interventions to promote communication and language development in young children with Down syndrome 
Review question 
Do parent‐mediated interventions improve communication and language development in young children with Down syndrome? 
Background 
Language development is an area of particular weakness for young children with Down syndrome. Caregivers' interaction with children influences language development, so sometimes clinicians coach parents so they can stimulate their children's language and communication skills. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2018.
We found three studies involving 45 children aged between 29 months and six years. Two studies were randomised controlled trials: experiments in which children were allocated to treatment (i.e. parent‐mediated) and control (treatment as usual or clinician‐mediated, or both) groups using a random method such as a computer‐generated list of random numbers. The other study reported that randomisation took place but did not specify how this was done. 
Two studies compared parent‐mediated intervention to treatment as usual. One of these lasted for 13 weeks, and parents in the intervention group received nine, weekly group sessions and four individual sessions in the home. The total intervention time was approximately 26.5 hours. A second study lasted for six months, and parents received weekly, 1.5‐ to 2‐hour clinic or home‐based, individualised, parent‐child sessions. The total intervention time was approximately 48 hours. A third study compared a parent‐ and clinician‐mediated intervention to a clinician‐only‐mediated intervention. In this study the parents in the intervention group took part in a two‐ to three‐hour interactive workshop plus three individualised sessions (two clinic‐based and one home‐based) every week for 12 weeks. The control group received the same individualised sessions, but a clinician delivered them (i.e. there was no parental involvement). The total intervention time was approximately 19 hours. 
