The use of bypassing agents for preventing bleeding in people with hemophilia with inhibitors 
Backgound 
Infusion of bypassing agents, such as recombinant activated FVII (rFVIIa) and plasma‐derived activated prothrombin complex concentrate (APCC), are suggested as alternative therapies to factor VIII (haemophilia A) or IX (haemophilia B) for individuals who no longer respond to these treatments because they develop inhibitory antibodies. The ultimate goal of treatment is to preserve the individual's joints, otherwise destroyed by recurrent bleeds. We therefore evaluated the effectiveness and safety of bypassing agents when used to prevent, as compared to treat, bleeds. We also compared different doses of bypassing agents in men with hemophilia A or B with inhibitors as a preventative (prophylactic) therapy. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 12 December 2016.
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific databases for clinical studies evaluating the effects of bypassing agents in men with hemophilia A or B with inhibitors. We included four studies (duration 7 to 15 months), involving 116 individuals. Two studies compared the prophylactic infusion with bypassing agent to on‐demand treatment (treatment given only after the bleeding occurred) and two studies compared high‐dose to low‐dose preventative therapies. 
Key Results 
Limited evidence showed that prophylactic use of bypassing agents reduced bleeding events, joint bleeding events and number of affected joints. There was no evidence for improved quality of life amongst those who received prophylaxis as compared to those who received on‐demand therapy. There was no evidence for a difference in benefits or harms between high‐ and low‐dose rFVIIa for prophylaxis. 
Quality of evidence 
The overall quality of evidence of these studies was moderate to low as the included studies were small and provided limited information. Also, in one of the studies, up to 24% of the men recruited were not included in the analysis of the results, which further increases imprecision of results. 
