Breastfeeding the newborn or nipple stimulation for reducing postpartum haemorrhage in the third stage of labour 
What is the issue? 
After a baby's birth, the placenta is delivered. The time between delivery of the baby and the placenta is called the third stage of labour. Excessive blood loss during this stage can endanger the mother's life. Several different methods are used to decrease the amount of bleeding in the third stage of labour. Nipple stimulation either manually, using a breast pump or by encouraging the baby to suckle is one method to reduce postpartum bleeding. It can be used immediately after childbirth to increase the secretion of the hormone called ‘oxytocin’. When oxytocin is released it causes uterine contractions, which in turn can lead to reduction of postpartum bleeding. 
Why is this important? 
Most maternal deaths in developing countries related to childbirth are due to postpartum bleeding. This is preventable. This review investigated the effects of breastfeeding and nipple stimulation on bleeding during the third stage of labour. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 15 July 2015 and included four randomised controlled studies with 4608, women but only two of the studies had useable data. We assessed both studies contributing outcome data as being at a high risk of bias. One study compared the effect of the baby suckling immediately after birth with no intervention. Another study compared nipple stimulation (with a breast pump) versus oxytocin injection. Neither study reported postpartum haemorrhage. Side effects of the treatments were not reported. Similarly, there was limited information on other consequences for women and their babies. 
When comparing nipple stimulation (suckling) with no breastfeeding, there were no clear differences in terms of the number of maternal deaths. The incidence of severe maternal illness was not reported. One woman in the suckling group died as a result of a retained placenta. Blood loss greater than or equal to 500 mL, retained placenta, perinatal deaths and maternal readmission to hospital were not clearly different between those who breast fed and those who did not. While these data were based on a single study with a reasonable sample size (4227 women), the results were mostly of low or very low quality due to concerns related to data analysis and study methodology. 
Our comparison of nipple stimulation (using a breast pump) versus oxytocin included one small study involving 85 women only. There was no clear difference between the groups in relation to blood loss or postnatal anaemia. These results were of low quality due to our concerns about the way the trial was conducted and its small size. 
