Injury to the lining of the womb to improve pregnancy rates in couples having sexual intercourse or having sperm placed into the womb 
Review question 
To assess the effect and degree of pain when a minor intentional injury is made to the lining of the womb (endometrium) on the chance of having a baby for women who are trying to conceive via sexual intercourse or with placement of sperm into the womb (intrauterine insemination (IUI)). 
Background 
For women undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF), it has been suggested that the chances of pregnancy are increased by intentionally injuring the endometrium in a minor way. This injury can be done by taking a small biopsy from the endometrium with a small flexible plastic device, such as a pipelle, and is a common and safe gynaecological procedure. However, from daily clinical practice, this procedure is known to cause some degree of discomfort/pain, and it requires an additional pelvic examination. The effectiveness of this procedure in women who are not undergoing IVF, such as women or couples attempting to conceive via sexual intercourse or with IUI, remains unclear. 
Study characteristics 
Twenty‐three randomised controlled trials, including a total of 4035 women, met the inclusion criteria of this review. Most women had a type of infertility known as unexplained infertility, which means that after all routine tests were done, there was no obvious explanation for why the couple had not become pregnant so far. The main outcomes of the review were live birth/ongoing pregnancy (pregnancy beyond 12 weeks) and pain experienced during the procedure. The evidence is current to 21 May 2020. 
Key results 
Only one trial comparing intentional endometrial injury with no injury/a placebo procedure was well designed and was included in the analysis. This study did not provide enough evidence to show whether there is a difference in the chance of live birth; the quality of the evidence was low. Evidence suggests that if the chance of live birth with no intervention/a placebo procedure is assumed to be 34%, then the chance with endometrial injury would be 27% to 55%. 
