Interventions for improving patients' trust in doctors and groups of doctors
Trust is a fundamental part of a patient‐doctor relationship, and is associated with increased patient satisfaction, adherence to treatment, and continuity of care, although blind trust may on occasion facilitate poor care. We wished to know if there are effective ways of enhancing patient trust in doctors, by involving doctors (e.g. training) or patients (e.g. by providing information). 
We searched a wide variety of databases on 18 March 2013 and identified 10 diverse studies, all randomised controlled clinical trials, with 11,063 participants, that met the review's inclusion criteria. Seven of the trials were new for this update. Overall, they did not provide sufficient evidence that a specific intervention affects trust. All were undertaken in the United States. Two were government funded, while seven were funded by charitable trusts and one by a Health Maintenance Organisation (HMO). 
Interventions were of three main types; three employed additional physician training, four were education for patients and three provided additional information about doctors in terms of financial incentives or consulting style. 
Two trialled physician training interventions to improve behaviours known to be associated with trust. The interventions showed no change in the patients' trust in their physician. The third trial showed that training oncologists in communication skills resulted in a small increase in trust. 
Two trials examined group educational visits for uninsured diabetic patients. The first showed a small increase in trust, but the second showed no changes in trust. Another trial examined the effects of three types of educational introductory visits on new patients' trust in the doctors working for their health organisation. Trust in the doctors rose with one type of visit, in which patients were seen as a group. However, this was the least well taken up compared with individual visits with a physician, or a physician and health educator. A further trial explored helping patients decide about taking a statin by providing information and a chance to discuss options. This did not significantly increase trust. 
Two trials explored disclosing to patients the incentives doctors are given for practising medicine in a cost‐effective way via insurance plans. One trial led to no reduction and possibly an increase in trust. However, the plan information emphasised reducing unnecessary tests, rather than cost‐cutting. The other trial showed no decrease in trust with disclosure. A final trial matched patients to doctors depending on their beliefs about care. Although some aspects of the doctor‐patient relationship were improved, trust was not significantly affected. There was no evidence of harm from any of the studies. 
The review was constrained by the lack of consistency between trust measurements, timeframes and populations. We have highlighted the types of further trials that are required to explore the impact of doctors' specific training or the use of a patient‐centred or decision‐sharing approach on patients' trust. Particularly, there is a need for international studies over longer follow‐up periods in different healthcare systems. 
