Can dental professionals help people to stop smoking or using tobacco products?
Keeping your mouth healthy 
Tobacco can be smoked, chewed or sniffed (as snuff). The best thing that people who use tobacco products can do for their health is to stop using them. This lowers the risk of lung cancer and other diseases, including mouth cancer and gum disease. 
Many people visit a dental professional at least once a year; some may visit more often. Dental professionals could motivate people to stop using tobacco by telling them about the health risks of continuing and the health benefits of quitting. Dental professionals include: 
· dentists;
· dental hygienists;
· dental therapists; and
· dental nurses (referred to as dental assistants in some countries).
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out if dental professionals could help people to stop using tobacco by offering them advice and support. We also wanted to know if support from dental professionals had any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested whether advice and support from dental professionals helped people to stop smoking, chewing or sniffing tobacco. 
We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the people taking part were assigned to different treatment groups using chance to decide which people received support to stop using tobacco. This type of study usually gives reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to February 2020. 
What we found 
We found 20 studies in 14,897 people who used tobacco products (smoking, chewing or sniffing tobacco). The studies took place in the USA (13 studies), the UK (two studies), Sweden (two studies), Japan (one study), Malaysia (one study) and India (one study). Most studies (16) were in dental clinics and four were conducted in schools or colleges. 
All studies used behavioural programmes to help people stop using tobacco; these programmes aimed to boost motivation and offer advice on stopping. Four studies also included offering people nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or e‐cigarettes as well as a behavioural programme. 
Nineteen studies were funded by government agencies or universities; one study reported that it received no funding. 
For each type of behavioural programme tested, the studies measured how many people stopped smoking or using tobacco products for at least six months. 
In all studies, the effect of receiving behavioural support from dental professionals was compared with: 
· usual care (the studies did not state what this included);
· no support or advice;
· brief advice to stop smoking to improve health; or
· a less active form of behavioural support.
What are the main results of our review? 
Behavioural programmes involving dental professionals and NRT or e‐cigarettes probably help more people to stop smoking. On average, 74 out of 1000 people stopped compared with 27 out of 1000 people who did not receive behavioural support (evidence from four studies in 1221 people). 
Several sessions of behavioural programmes involving dental professionals may help people to stop using tobacco. On average,106 out of 1000 people stopped compared with 56 out of 1000 people who did not receive behavioural support (seven studies; 2639 people). 
A single session of a behavioural programme may also help people to stop: on average, 45 out of 1000 people stopped compared with 24 out of 1000 who did not receive behavioural support (four studies; 6328 people). 
We are uncertain about the effect of advice and support from dental professionals in settings other than a dental practice (such as in a school or college), because the studies that tested this were too small to show a reliable effect (three studies; 1020 people). 
