Does the measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccine protect children, and does it cause harmful effects? 
Background 
Measles, mumps, rubella (German measles) and varicella (chickenpox) are infectious diseases caused by viruses. They are most common in children and young adults. They are not always serious, but can cause disability (such as deafness), complications and death. If pregnant women catch rubella, it may cause loss (miscarriage) of, or harm to, their unborn babies.A vaccine is a medicine that prevents infection by a specific disease. The MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccine protects people against all three of these infections (a combined vaccine). Doctors can vaccinate against chickenpox at the same time by mixing the chickenpox (varicella) vaccine with the MMR vaccine (MMRV) or giving it separately at the same time (MMR+V).The MMR vaccine has reduced measles, mumps and rubella infections. However, some people think the MMR vaccine causes unwanted effects such as autism, swelling of the brain (encephalitis), meningitis, learning difficulties, type 1 diabetes, and other conditions. As a result, the number of children being vaccinated has fallen.This is the 2019 update of a review first published in 2005 and previously updated in 2012.Review question 
We wanted to find out how effectively MMR, MMR+V and MMRV vaccines stop children (up to 15 years old) from catching measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox. We also wanted to know if the vaccines cause unwanted effects. 
Study characteristics 
We looked for studies that assessed MMR, MMRV or MMR+V vaccines, given in any dose or time schedule, compared with not giving the vaccine, or giving a placebo vaccine (a sham treatment), to healthy children up to 15 years old. Studies needed to measure the number of cases of measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox, and report whether children suffered any unwanted effects attributable to vaccination. We checked each study to make sure it used robust methods so that we could judge how reliable its results were. 
ResultsWe found 138 studies with more than 23 million children. Fifty‐one studies (10 million children) assessed how effective the vaccines were at preventing the diseases, and 87 studies (13 million children) assessed unwanted effects. In this 2020 update we have included 74 new studies published since 2012.Measles: results from seven studies (12,000 children) showed that one dose of vaccine was 95% effective in preventing measles. Seven per cent of unvaccinated children would catch measles and this number would fall to less than 0.5% of children who receive one dose of vaccine.Mumps: results from six studies (9915 children) showed that one dose of vaccine was 72% effective in preventing mumps. This rose to 86% after two doses, (3 studies, 7792 children). In unvaccinated children, 7.4% would catch mumps and this would fall to 1% if children were vaccinated with two doses.The results for rubella (1 study, 1621 children) and chickenpox (one study, 2279 children) also showed that vaccines are effective. After one dose, vaccination was 89% effective in preventing rubella, using a vaccine with the BRD2 strain which is only used in China, and after 10 years the MMRV vaccine was 95% effective at preventing chickenpox infection.Unwanted effectsOverall, the studies found that MMR, MMRV and MMR+V vaccines did not cause autism (2 studies 1,194,764 children), encephalitis (2 studies 1,071,088 children) or any other suspected unwanted effect.Our analyses showed very small risks of fits due to high temperature or fever (febrile seizures) around two weeks after vaccination, and of a condition where blood does not clot normally (idiopathic thrombocytopenic purpura) in vaccinated children.  
