Zolmitriptan for acute migraine attacks in adults
Migraine is a complex condition with a wide variety of symptoms. It affects about 1 person in 8, mainly women aged 30 to 50 years. For many people, the main feature is a painful, and often disabling, headache. Other symptoms include feeling sick, vomiting, disturbed vision, and sensitivity to light, sound, and smells. 
Zolmitriptan is one of the triptan family of drugs. It is used to treat migraine attacks when they occur, not to prevent attacks occurring. It is available as an oral tablet to swallow whole, an oral tablet to dissolve in the mouth, and a nasal spray. This review looked at 25 studies that involved over 20,000 participants reporting the effects of zolmitriptan on migraine attacks. Most information was for tablets taken by mouth. Overall methodological quality of the included studies was good, and treatment group sizes were large enough to avoid major bias. There were inconsistencies in the way use of rescue medication and adverse events were reported. 
A single oral dose of zolmitriptan relieved migraine headache pain in some people. Several different pain outcomes were reported. 
One outcome was pain reduced from moderate or severe to no pain at all two hours after taking treatment. An oral zolmitriptan 2.5 mg tablet delivered this outcome to about 3 in 10 people (30%), compared with about 1 in 10 (10%) taking placebo. 
Another outcome was pain reduced from moderate or severe to no worse than mild pain two hours after taking treatment (called headache relief). An oral zolmitriptan 2.5 mg tablet delivered this outcome to about 6 in 10 people (61%), compared with 3 in 10 (29%) taking placebo. 
Slightly better results were obtained with higher doses of 5 mg or 10 mg oral tablets, but the 10 mg dose was associated with more adverse events, most of which were of short duration and mild or moderate in severity. Results for the 5 mg nasal spray were generally similar to those for the oral tablet, but it was significantly better than the tablet at 1 hour. 
People with migraine want treatment that eliminates the headache and any associated symptoms quickly (maximum two hours) and prevents it returning (within 24 hours). Results indicate that with the 5 mg dose only 14% of those treated were pain‐free at 2 hours with no headache recurrence within 24 hours. 
Oral zolmitriptan 2.5 mg and 5 mg provided headache relief at two hours to the same proportion of people (2 in 3) as oral sumatriptan 50 mg, with no difference in numbers experiencing adverse events. The individuals who respond to each drug may not be the same. 
