Human chorionic gonadotrophin (hCG) priming in in vitro maturation (IVM)
Review Question 
Cochrane authors reviewed the evidence about hCG priming in IVM to determine its effectiveness and safety in subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction. The main outcomes were live birth and miscarriage rate. 
Background 
Assisted reproduction usually involves ovarian stimulation to obtain a higher yield (or number) of oocytes (immature egg cells). One complication of this is ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome (OHSS), which in its most severe form, can cause life threatening complications. Women with polycystic ovaries (PCO) or polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) are at an increased risk of OHSS. In IVM, multiple immature oocytes are retrieved, usually from unstimulated ovaries, prior to subsequent maturation and fertilisation. In vitro maturation has a lower live birth rate than in vitro fertilisation, but it avoids the risk of OHSS, so is a useful technique in women with PCO and PCOS. It is also beneficial for other patient groups, such as women who require urgent fertility preservation prior to cancer treatment, or women who are resistant to ovarian stimulation. Strategies are needed to improve the maturation rate and subsequent live birth rate in IVM. During the normal menstrual cycle, a surge in luteinising hormone (LH) triggers oocyte maturation and ovulation. Human chorionic gonadotrophin has a similar structure to LH, and can mimic its biological activity. Therefore, it can be used to promote the start of oocyte maturation, when given as a trigger prior to oocyte retrieval. This is called hCG priming. 
Study Characteristics 
This review included four randomised controlled trials, with a total of 522 women. One study investigated the use of 20,000 units hCG priming compared to 10,000 units. The remaining studies investigated 10,000 units hCG priming compared to no priming. The main outcomes were live birth rate and miscarriage rate per woman randomised. Evidence published up to 29 August 2016 was examined. 
Key Results 
Only one study reported the main outcome of live birth per woman randomised; two studies reported clinical pregnancy. We found no certain evidence of a difference between 10,000 units hCG priming and no priming. However, there was some low quality evidence to suggest that hCG may be associated with a reduction in pregnancy rates; 22% of women who received no priming achieved pregnancy, while between 7% and 23% of women who received hCG priming did so. Two studies reported miscarriage rate per woman randomised, and found no evidence of a difference between 10,000 units hCG priming and no priming. No studies reported on adverse events (other than miscarriage) or drug reactions. 
Overall, there was insufficient evidence to draw any definite conclusions on the use of hCG priming in IVM. Further randomised trials are necessary, in particular, focusing on women with PCOS. 
