Aquatic exercise for people with osteoarthritis in the knee or hip
Review question 
What are the effects of aquatic exercise interventions in the treatment of people with knee and hip osteoarthritis (OA)? 
Background: what is osteoarthritis of the hip and knee, and what is aquatic exercise? 
Osteoarthritis is a chronic disease characterized by joint pain, tenderness, and limitation of movement. At present no cure is available. Thus only treatment of the person's symptoms and treatment to prevent further development of the disease are possible. Aquatic exercise is physical exercises taking place while the participant are immersed in water, typically water with a temperature between 32°C to 36°C. This is a review update of a published Cochrane review, and presents results from research concerning the effect of aquatic exercise for treating people with the knee and hip osteoarthritis. 
Study characteristics 
In this summary of this Cochrane review update we present what we know from research about the effects of aquatic exercise for people with osteoarthritis of the knee and hip. After searching for all relevant trials up to 28 April 2015, we included nine new trials since the last version of the Cochrane review. In total we included 13 trials (1190 participants). Most of these trials included participants with mild to moderate symptomatic knee or hip osteoarthritis. 
Key results 
Aquatic exercise for a mixed group of people with knee and hip osteoarthritis probably improves pain, disability slightly, and may improve quality of life slightly immediately after completion of a treatment course (up to 12 weeks of aquatic exercise). This review update does not change the conclusions of the previous published version of this Cochrane review. 
Pain [lower score is better] 
People who completed an aquatic exercise programme rated their pain as five points lower (three to eight points lower) on a 0 to 100 scale at the end of aquatic exercise compared with people who did not receive aquatic exercise (5% absolute improvement) 
People who completed an exercise program rated their pain to be 41 points on a scale of 0 to 100 
People in the control group rated their pain to be 46 points on a scale of 0 to 100.
Disability [lower score is better] 
People who completed an aquatic exercise programme rated their disability as five points lower (three to eight points lower) on a 0 to 100 scale at the end of aquatic exercise compared with people who did not receive aquatic exercise (5% absolute improvement) 
People who completed an exercise program rated their disability to be 39 points on a scale of 0 to 100 
People in the control group rated their disability to be 44 points on a scale of 0 to 100 
Quality of life [higher score is better] 
People who completed an aquatic exercise programme rated their quality of life as seven points higher (0 to 13 points higher) on a 0 to 100 scale at the end of aquatic exercise compared with people who did not receive aquatic exercise (13% absolute improvement) 
People who completed an exercise program rated their quality of life to be 57 points on a scale of 0 to 100 
People in the control group rated their quality of life to be 50 points on a scale of 0 to 100 
X‐rays of the joints ‐ no studies measured this outcome 
Withdrawals from the study 
3 more people out of 100 dropped out of the aquatic exercise programme (3% absolute increase) 
18 people out of 100 in the aquatic exercise group dropped out of the exercise programme
15 people out of 100 dropped out of the control group
Serious adverse events 
No serious side effects were reported with relation to participating in aquatic exercise
Quality of evidence 
Moderate quality evidence shows that among people with hip and knee osteoarthritis, aquatic exercise may reduce pain and disability, and increase quality of life immediately after the end of the programme of treatment. Further research may change these results. 
