Preventing type 2 diabetes in adults with mental health conditions in low‐ and middle‐income countries 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
We searched the medical literature to review the evidence on the effects of pharmacological (drug), behavioural (behaviour change) and organisational (delivery of health care) interventions for the prevention of type 2 diabetes among people with mental disorders in low‐ and middle‐income countries (LMICs). Type 2 diabetes is a serious health condition that may develop when the body can no longer properly use a hormone called insulin. There are many reasons why a person may develop type 2 diabetes, including being overweight, having high blood pressure, not getting enough exercise, having a family history of the disease, and several other possible risk factors. 
We included randomized controlled trials (RCTs) published up to our search date, 20 February 2020. 
Why is this important? 
People with mental health conditions such as schizophrenia, bipolar disorder, and major depressive disorder are more likely to develop type 2 diabetes than the general population. Many people suffering from mental health conditions, who are at an increased risk of developing diabetes, live in LMICs. Treating diabetes in this population poses challenges to healthcare systems. Preventing the development of diabetes is therefore important to people with mental health conditions and to healthcare systems in LMICs. 
What did we find? 
Among adults with mental health conditions, we identified only one study that assessed our primary outcome, prevention of type 2 diabetes. This hospital‐based study with 150 participants (99 participants with schizophrenia) found low‐certainty evidence of no difference in risk between the use of older antipsychotic medications (typical antipsychotics) and newer antipsychotic medications (atypical antipsychotics) for the outcome of developing type 2 diabetes. 
We included an additional 29 studies with 2481 participants assessing one or more of our secondary outcomes. All studies were conducted in hospital settings and tested pharmacological interventions. No study examined organisational interventions. Only one study evaluated an intervention aimed at changing people's behaviour, but it also included a pharmacological intervention. 
For the outcome of study drop‐outs (how many people drop out of a study before it ends), we did not find evidence of a difference when participants were treated with atypical antipsychotics, compared with those who were treated with typical antipsychotics. This was also the case in studies comparing treatment with metformin (a medication used to treat diabetes) with placebo (pretend treatment), and those comparing treatment with melatonin (a hormone that regulates sleep) with placebo. Very low‐certainty evidence from one study suggests that drop‐outs may be higher among participants treated with a tricyclic antidepressant, compared with participants treated with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (another type of antidepressant). 
We did not find evidence of a difference in fasting blood glucose levels in comparisons between atypical and typical antipsychotics, metformin and placebo, or tricyclic antidepressants and selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors. We did find that fasting blood glucose levels are likely to be lower in participants treated with melatonin, compared to those given placebo. 
