Clot‐dissolving drugs for treating ischaemic stroke in the early stages
Question 
We wanted to compare the safety and efficacy of clot‐dissolving (thrombolytic) drugs versus placebo or no treatment in the early stages of ischaemic stroke to see if clot‐dissolving drugs improve outcome after stroke. 
Background 
Most strokes are due to blockage of an artery in the brain by a blood clot. Prompt treatment with clot‐dissolving (thrombolytic) drugs can restore blood flow before major brain damage has occurred and could mean that people are more likely to make a good recovery from their stroke. Thrombolytic drugs can also, however, cause serious bleeding in the brain, which can be fatal. Thrombolytic therapy has now been evaluated in many randomised trials in acute ischaemic stroke. The thrombolytic drug alteplase has been licensed for use within three hours of stroke in the USA and Canada, and within 4.5 hours in most European countries. The numbers of people receiving this treatment successively are increasing. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 27 trials with a total of 10,187 participants in searches conducted up to November 2013. Most data come from trials testing one drug (recombinant tissue Plasminogen Activator, rt‐PA) given into a vein up to six hours after acute ischaemic stroke, but several other drugs were also tested and at different times to treatment after stroke and given into an artery in the brain rather than into a vein in the arm. All trials compared a clot‐dissolving drug with a placebo (control) group. Most trials included participants with moderate to severe stroke. All trials took place in hospitals that were used to treating people with stroke. Differences between trials mean that not all trials contribute information to all outcomes, but we have used all available data. Most trials included participants after a computed tomography (CT) brain scan had excluded a brain haemorrhage as the cause of symptoms (a few trials used magnetic resonance brain scanning instead). 
