Prophylactic antibiotic therapy for people with chronic obstructive lung disease (COPD)
What is COPD? 
COPD is a common condition caused mainly by smoking and can lead to long‐term breathing problems. Symptoms include shortness of breath, and cough with sputum production due to airways and lung damage. Infection can trigger severe symptoms, with breathing becoming worse and increased cough and sputum. This is more commonly known as an exacerbation or 'flare‐up' which can cause further damage to lung function. Frequent exacerbations can lead to hospital admissions, reduced quality of life, and increase the risk of death. 
Why did we do this review? 
We wanted to know whether one preventative antibiotic was better than another preventative antibiotic in reducing exacerbations, and improving quality of life for people with COPD. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found two randomised trials, including 391 people with COPD. The participants had an average age of 68 years. The first study included three groups of COPD patients taking either moxifloxacin (daily for 5 days every 4 weeks), doxycycline (daily for 13 weeks) or azithromycin (3 times per week for 13 weeks). The second study investigated the use of doxycycline (daily) in addition to roxithromycin (daily) for 12 weeks in COPD. Our main outcomes were number of exacerbations, quality of life, serious side effects (known as 'adverse events') and antibiotic resistance. 
Results and conclusions 
Overall, we were unable to determine any difference between one antibiotic compared with each other in improving the main outcomes we measured. 
We were unclear whether one antibiotic was better or worse than another in terms of reducing exacerbations or improving quality of life. Neither of the studies reported a comparison between antibiotics for drug resistance. 
In one study lasting 13 weeks we found no serious side effects of taking moxifloxacin, azithromycin or doxycycline, and no deaths were reported. In the other study, very similar numbers of people experienced serious side effects in both the combined antibiotic and single antibiotic treatment groups after 12 weeks of treatment and 48 weeks of follow‐up. However, the numbers were small so we are not sure if one treatment option may cause more side effects than the other. In the same study, five people in the combined treatment group died, compared to three people in the single treatment group. Again, these numbers are too small to draw any conclusions. 
