Transcutaneous electrical stimulation (TES) for treating long‐term constipation in children. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of TES in improving constipation in children. 
Background 
Childhood constipation is a common problem with substantial health, economic and emotional burdens. Currently, most treatment options include the use of laxatives with diet modification. None of the common medications used are found to be consistently effective, and there are concerns regarding side effects and dependence, especially following long‐term use of laxatives. TES is a newer, non‐pharmacological mode of treatment that involves placing the electrodes on the belly of affected children, which generates small electrical wave forms (interferential current) across the belly wall in a dose that is well below a level that may cause concern, aiming to stimulate the bowel to improve bowel motion. 
Search Date 
We included research evidence that was current to July 2015.
Study characteristics 
We included a single study with 11 reports that focused on results for different outcomes. The participants of the included study were 46 children aged 8 to 18 years recruited from the clinic of a tertiary hospital in Melbourne, Australia who were diagnosed with long‐term constipation either based on their symptoms and/or X‐ray studies. The studies divided the patients into two groups, one receiving the actual TES , with electrodes placed on their belly and electrical current running, and the other receiving sham stimulation, with identical device administered but without the electrical current. The participants were followed‐up for up to four years, although only outcome information up until the follow‐up period of two months were available in this review. 
Source of funding 
The study was funded by the Australian National Health and Medical Research Council and Murdoch Children's Research Institute Theme Investment Grants. 
Key results 
There was not enough information on certain aspects of the trial methodologies from the reports gathered, although it was clear that the physiotherapists who administered the TES treatment or sham treatment were aware of which group the patients were allocated to. The knowledge of the participants' allocated group might have influenced the way the actual and sham therapies were administered, as well as the way some of the outcome data, such as symptoms of constipation and soiling and quality of life, might have been reported by the therapist as well as the patients and their carers. This raised concerns regarding the overall methodological quality of the study. 
The very low quality evidence for all of the results means that we are uncertain about the effects of TES when compared with sham stimulation. Overall, there were no differences between children who received TES and sham stimulation in the number of children with improved complete spontaneous bowel movements, improved bowel movements (as assessed by X‐Ray with special contrast), improved symptoms related to soiling and quality of life. There were also no differences between the two groups in the average change in the quality of life scores after the therapy, as assessed by the children themselves as well as their parents. The only difference noted was in mean bowel transit rate, namely, distance travelled by the radioactive substance along the bowel, in which children who received TES had their radioactive substance slightly further down their bowel compared to children who received a sham stimulation. However, it was unclear whether such a difference in distance travelled in the bowel translated to any meaningful differences in defaecation and constipation‐related symptoms. No side effects were reported in the study. 
