Implantable cardioverter defibrillators versus medical therapy for people with inherited heart rhythm abnormalities 
Review question 
What is the evidence about potential benefits and harms of implantable cardioverter defibrillators compared to medical treatment for the prevention of sudden cardiac death in people with inherited heart rhythm abnormalities? 
Background 
Sudden (unexpected) cardiac death is the leading mechanism of death worldwide. An unknown proportion of these deaths is caused by heart beat abnormalities that are passed on within families (inherited) that can lead to sudden cardiac death in otherwise healthy people. Four inherited diseases that affect the heart's electrical system, called congenital long QT syndrome, congenital short QT syndrome, Brugada syndrome, and catecholaminergic polymorphic ventricular tachycardia, account for most of all inherited cases of sudden cardiac death. These people have abnormalities in the way in which their heart's balance electrolytes (naturally occurring substances in the blood and other body fluids that carry an electric charge) in a way that make them more likely to have higher sudden cardiac death rates than the general population. Two methods are used to prevent sudden cardiac death in these people: 1. implantable cardioverter defibrillators, which are small devices that provide electrical shocks to make the heart rhythm more regular, and 2. medical therapy (treatment with medicines that influence the heart's rhythm). 
The aim of this systematic review was to compare the potential benefits and harms of implantable cardioverter defibrillators with medical therapy for the prevention of sudden cardiac death in people with inherited heart rhythm abnormalities. We reviewed the evidence up to July 2015 to answer this question. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases and found two randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) including 86 adults that met our inclusion criteria. Both trials compared implantable cardioverter defibrillators with medical therapy in people with Brugada syndrome who had already survived a sudden cardiac arrest event. We found no studies in people who had not experienced such an event or with other abnormalities. These two studies were small, were performed by the same investigators from Thailand, were funded by a device company, and had major methodological limitations, including being stopped early. Nearly all (98%) participants were men who had an average age of 44 years old. 
Key results 
All‐cause mortality (death from any cause) was lower in people who received the implantable cardioverter defibrillator. Rates of survived sudden cardiac arrest, heart attack, and stroke were higher, primarily due to differences in survived sudden cardiac arrest rates. Implantable cardioverter defibrillators had a higher rate of side effects compared with medical therapy, including receiving inappropriate shocks from their defibrillators, which required reprogramming of these devices. 
