Antifungal agents for preventing fungal infections in critically ill adults and children with a normal number of neutrophils in the blood 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of giving antifungal medications before a definitive diagnosis of fungal infections on mortality from all causes and development of severe infections due to fungi (invasive fungal infections) in adults and children who are critically ill but non‐neutropenic, i.e. with a normal number of neutrophils in their blood. 
Background 
Critically ill adults and children may suffer from invasive fungal infections, such as those affecting the bloodstream and other organs. Once established, such infections are difficult to treat and frequently result in death. Antifungal medications are sometimes given to critically ill adults and children most prone to developing fungal infections and to those with signs of infections when it is still unclear if a fungus is the cause. 
Study characteristics 
We included 22 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) (total of 2761 participants). Eleven trials compared the use of fluconazole to placebo or no antifungal treatment. Three trials compared ketoconazole versus placebo. One trial compared anidulafungin with placebo. One trial compared caspofungin to placebo. Two trials compared micafungin to placebo. One trial compared amphotericin B to placebo. Two trials compared nystatin to placebo and one trial compared the effect of clotrimazole, ketoconazole, nystatin and no treatment. The RCTs included participants of both genders with a wide age range and severity of critical illness. 
Search date 
The evidence is current as of February 2015.
Study funding sources 
Funding sources from drug manufacturers were reported in 11 out of 22 studies. Another study was funded by a government agency. 
Key results 
Results of 19 from 22 randomized trials involved 2374 participants and showed that antifungal medications given before definitive diagnosis of fungal infection did not reduce mortality from all causes. None of the studied drugs were associated with a significant reduction of mortality from all causes. However, results from 17 randomized studies involving 2024 participants showed that antifungal drugs significantly reduced the risk of developing invasive fungal infections. 
We also reviewed the evidence from five trials (662 participants) about the effect of antifungal treatment on the development of superficial fungal infections but we did not find any significant difference. However, we found evidence from 12 trials (1020 participants) of a significant reduction of fungi in body sites (excluding blood) not causing an infection. Eleven trials (1691 participants) reported serious adverse events requiring cessation of therapy. We found no evidence of differences in serious adverse events requiring interruption of antifungal medications between people who received and those who did not receive them. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence for the outcome of mortality (all‐cause) was moderate due to limitations in study design. The quality of evidence for the outcome of invasive fungal infection, superficial fungal infection, fungal colonization and adverse events requiring cessation of therapy was low due to limitations in study design, non‐optimal total number of patients studied and results inconsistent across studies. 
Conclusion 
There is moderate quality evidence that the use of antifungal treatment given before definitive diagnosis of fungal infection is not associated with a significant reduction in mortality from all causes among critically ill adults and children with a normal number of neutrophils in the blood. This type of antifungal treatment may be associated with a reduction of invasive fungal infections but the quality of evidence on this point is low. 
