Anxiety disorders are a potentially disabling group of disorders which frequently occur in childhood and adolescence. Increasing recognition of the early onset of anxiety disorders and of the effectiveness of medication in treating adult anxiety disorders has contributed to a growing interest in the use of medication in treating paediatric patients. This systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of pharmacotherapy of anxiety disorders in children and adolescents identified 22 short‐term (<= 16 weeks) randomised controlled trials which were eligible for inclusion (2519 participants). Treatment response was significantly greater after treatment with medication (58.1%) than with placebo (31.5%) in 14 trials. Medication was more effective than placebo in reducing overall symptom severity across all of the anxiety disorders (number of studies (N) = 9). The greatest number of trials were for obsessive compulsive disorder (OCD), for which treatment efficacy in reducing symptom severity was also observed . The greatest number of trials showing efficacy to date have used the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs). No controlled evidence could be found for the effectiveness of benzodiazepines, despite their continued prescription for paediatric anxiety disorders. Medication was less well tolerated than placebo, as indicated by the significant proportion of children and adolescents who dropped out due to adverse effects during the short term trials. Furthermore, while few incidences of suicidal behaviour/ideation in the included trials were attributed to study medication, it is important to be aware of the need for careful monitoring after initiation of SSRIs in treating this population. In conclusion, medication should be considered as part of the treatment of paediatric anxiety disorders over the short‐term. Additional research into the optimal dose and duration of medication treatment, as well as the effects of age on the efficacy and tolerability of medication is warranted. 