Medical interventions to prevent early graft rejection after liver transplantation
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review? 
Liver transplantation is the main treatment option for people with severe advanced liver disease. When organs or tissues are transplanted from one person (organ donor) to another (organ recipient), the body of the organ recipient identifies the donor organ (or graft) as a foreign body and initiates a response against it in a way similar to the natural body defence mechanism against infections (immune response). This can sometimes lead to rejection or failure of the donor liver, which can result in the death of the organ recipient. Various medical interventions (immunosuppressive regimen) are used either alone or in combination to prevent rejection. The combination of interventions used in the first few months after liver transplantation (induction immunosuppressive regimen) is often different from the combination used for the rest of the patient's life (maintenance immunosuppression). It is unclear which induction immunosuppressive regimen after liver transplantation is the most effective. 
The review authors collected and analysed all relevant research studies to answer this question and found 25 randomised clinical trials (studies in which participants are randomly assigned to one of two groups). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments simultaneously (usually referred to as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature search July 2019 
Key messages Only one of the 25 studies was conducted without flaws and most of the studies were small in terms of the number of participants included. Because of this, there is high or very high uncertainty in the obtained analysis results in this review. Overall, a drug called basiliximab may halve the number of deaths and graft failures in people who have had a liver transplant compared to the standard induction immunosuppressive regimen of glucocorticoids. 
