Seminal fluid application to improve assisted reproduction outcomes
Review question 
The main aim of this review was to assess whether application of seminal plasma to the female genital tract around the time of embryo transfer improves live birth rates in assisted reproductive technology (ART) cycles. Seminal plasma is the fluid part of the ejaculate, and the female genital tract consists of the vagina, the neck of the womb and the womb. 
Background 
In ART cycles, the egg and sperm are mixed outside the body to develop embryos. One or two of the embryos are replaced into the womb in a very small amount of artificial fluid. During this process, the woman's body does not come into contact with seminal plasma at all, unlike during normal intercourse where the male partner ejaculates in the vagina, exposing the latter to seminal fluid. It has been suggested that seminal plasma contains several molecules which can help the embryos to attach to the womb. The logical question is whether application of some seminal plasma to the vagina/neck of the womb or womb increases the chances of a live birth after ART. 
Study characteristics 
This Cochrane review included 11 randomised controlled trials, in which women were randomly allocated to receive seminal plasma or not. These trials included a total of 3215 women undergoing ART. The evidence is current to October 2017. 
Key results 
We found no clear evidence to suggest whether seminal plasma application influences rates of live birth or miscarriage in women undergoing ART. However, we found low‐quality evidence suggesting that seminal plasma application may possibly lead to more clinical pregnancies than standard ART. There was low‐quality evidence suggesting little or no difference between the groups in rates of multiple pregnancy. There was insufficient evidence to reach any conclusions about the risk of ectopic pregnancy (pregnancy in which the embryo attaches outside the womb), and no data were available on infectious complications or other adverse events. 
