Acetyl‐L‐carnitine for patients with hepatic encephalopathy
What is hepatic encephalopathy? Hepatic encephalopathy is a common and devastating neuropsychiatric complication of acute liver failure or chronic liver disease. The liver in people with hepatic encephalopathy cannot clear the portal venous blood (the big pipeline that leads blood from the small intestine into the liver). Due to this, blood ammonium levels and levels of other toxic substances are increased, which leads to brain damage. Hepatic encephalopathy is associated with significantly increased mortality among patients with liver disease, including those awaiting liver transplantation. 
What is acetyl‐L‐carnitine? Acetyl‐L‐carnitine is a substance that reduces blood and brain ammonium levels and may act as a brain‐protective agent. 
The purpose of this review This Cochrane systematic review assessed the benefits and harms of treating people with hepatic encephalopathy with acetyl‐L‐carnitine in addition to providing standard care (lactulose, antibiotics, etc.) compared with placebo or no acetyl‐L‐carnitine intervention in addition to standard care. 
Findings of this review Review authors searched the medical literature up to 10 September 2018, and identified five relevant randomised clinical trials, including a total of 398 participants. All trials were performed in Italy by only one team of investigators. All were considered at high risk of bias and included small numbers of participants, which makes potential overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms likely. The pharmaceutical industry did not sponsor any trial. Trials tested acetyl‐L‐carnitine given orally or intravenously versus placebo. The drug did not seem to have effects on quality of life, fatigue, or non‐serious adverse events when compared with placebo (inactive sham drug). 
Shortcomings of the trials included in this review None of the included trials reported data on participants’ all‐cause mortality, serious adverse events, or days of hospitalisation. Researchers poorly reported harms caused by acetyl‐L‐carnitine, so the harms profile remains unclear. Risks of bias, imprecision, and outcome reporting bias all make the certainty of evidence low or very low. A reduction in blood ammonium levels favoured participants receiving acetyl‐L‐carnitine, but study authors observed no clinical benefits. 
It is clear that additional randomised clinical trials are required to assess the benefits and harms of acetyl‐L‐carnitine compared with placebo in the treatment of people with hepatic encephalopathy. These trials should be well designed, conducted by independent researchers, and collaborative, and should include large numbers of participants. 
