How accurate are the imaging techniques PET and MRI to determine the feasibility of primary debulking surgery for ovarian cancer? 
Why is it important to determine the feasibility of ovarian tumour resection? Ovarian cancer is a disease with a high mortality that affects 239,000 women each year across the world. By the time it is symptomatic and detected, cancer cells have spread throughout the abdomen in most women. Treatment consists of surgery to remove as much visible tumour as possible (also called debulking surgery) and chemotherapy. Randomised controlled trials have shown that in women where all visible cancer cannot be removed with surgery, giving chemotherapy first to shrink the tumour is an alternative treatment strategy. This can improve the number of women having successful removal of all visible tumour, known as macroscopic debulking. Therefore, it is important to determine beforehand if all visible tumour deposits can be removed by surgery, followed by chemotherapy, or if chemotherapy is needed first to reduce tumour size before surgery is performed. 
Imaging with abdominal computed tomography (abdominal CT) is currently used to determine whether primary debulking surgery is feasible. However, it cannot determine the outcome correctly in all women. Other imaging techniques that can be used are positron emission tomography (PET) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI). PET visualises glucose uptake by cells and allows detection of distant metastases and is frequently performed parallel with abdominal CT (FDG‐PET/CT). MRI provides good soft tissue contrast to detect small lesions. These additional imaging techniques may improve treatment selection. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To investigate the accuracy of PET and MRI in women with advanced stage ovarian cancer to determine the feasibility of primary debulking surgery. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We identified two studies (with 366 participants) addressing the accuracy of FDG‐PET/CT and three studies (with 178 participants) investigating the accuracy of MRI. 
