Ovarian function suppression for treating premenopausal women with hormone receptor‐positive early breast cancer 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether adding ovarian function suppression to treatment for early breast cancer improves survival, reduces the risk of cancer coming back, and is safe for premenopausal women with hormone receptor‐positive early breast cancer. Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer these questions and found 15 studies. 
Key messages? 
Adding ovarian suppression function to therapy improved survival (women lived longer) and reduced the chance of cancer returning in women with operable early breast cancer, but the use of ovarian function suppression appears to increase the risk of hot flushes and may affect bone health. The decision to use OFS needs to be personalised after the risk and benefit profile is considered. 
What was studied in the review? 
Around eight out of ten premenopausal women who develop breast cancer have a type of cancer that is sensitive to hormones, termed 'hormone receptor‐positive' disease. To slow the growth of any cancer cells that remain after surgery, hormonal therapy can be used to reduce the availability of natural hormone oestrogen to cancer cells. This can be done by blocking oestrogen receptors on the cells with drugs such as tamoxifen, by suppressing the production of oestrogen by drugs called luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonists, or by removing the ovaries with surgery or impairing their ability to produce hormones using radiotherapy. 
This review examined the role of ovarian function suppression (i.e. LHRH agonists, removal of the ovaries, or radiation‐induced ovarian suppression) for premenopausal women with hormone receptor‐positive early‐stage breast cancer. The practice of suppressing ovarian function in addition to providing other treatments has been of interest over the last five years, as new data from clinical trials have become available. A review of these data is needed to find the benefits of adding ovarian function suppression to treatment, to identify side effects from ovarian function suppression, and to discover how treatment is affecting a woman's overall well‐being (quality of life). 
