What are the benefits and risks of rituximab (a medicine that reduces inflammation) for the treatment of thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy (a disease affecting the tissues surrounding the eyes) 
Key messages‐ We did not find enough evidence to show that people with moderate to severe thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy who have treatment with rituximab have any different outcome in terms of signs and symptoms of disease compared to those treated with steroid or placebo (dummy treatment).  
‐ Rituximab may cause more adverse (unwanted) effects compared to steroids or a placebo, but we are not certain of this. 
‐ More studies are needed to strengthen the body of evidence and investigate whether rituximab should be used for the treatment of thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy. 
What is thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy?Thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy is an eye disease that affects half of people that have Graves' disease, a condition where the body's immune system attacks the thyroid gland and makes it overactive. In thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy the body's immune system also attacks the tissues surrounding the eyes. Symptoms include eye pain, redness, swelling, eye protrusion (proptosis), double vision, and in severe cases, reduction in vision.  
How is thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy treated?Treatment options for severe thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy include anti‐inflammation medicines called steroids, and radiotherapy.  However, relapses are common. Surgery to relieve the pressure that builds up behind the eye (orbital decompression) is usually reserved for sight‐threatening cases.  
A possible alternative treatment is a medicine called rituximab, given as an intravenous infusion (injection into the vein), which aims to stop the body’s defence system (immune system) from mistakenly attacking its healthy tissues and causing inflammation. 
What did we want to find out?We wanted to compare the benefits and risks of rituximab against those of other treatments for thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that compared rituximab against placebo (dummy) treatment or steroid treatment for thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy. We compared and summarised the results of these studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes of participant groups. 
What did we find?We found two studies, conducted in Italy and the USA, involving a total of 56 people with thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy. Everyone taking part in the study was aged 18 to 80 years (average age 55 years) and 77% were women. One study (31 people) compared intravenous rituximab (2 x 1000 mg infusions given 2 weeks apart or a single infusion of 500 mg) to intravenous methylprednisolone (steroid). The other study (25 people) compared intravenous rituximab (2 x 1000 mg infusions given 2 weeks apart) to intravenous placebo (dummy) infusions. As the studies compared rituximab to different alternative treatments, it was not possible to combine the studies' results to analyse them together. 
What were the main results of our review?The evidence suggests that rituximab, compared to intravenous methylprednisolone, may result in an improvement in how 'active' the thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy is at 24 weeks following treatment when measured using one particular scale, but the evidence for whether there was a true difference was uncertain. Furthermore, there was little to no difference when thyroid‐associated ophthalmopathy activity was measured using a different scale. There was no evidence of a difference in the following outcomes, measured at 24 weeks following treatment: 
‐ reduction in eye protrusion 
‐ reduction in how wide open the eyelids are
‐ improvement in eye movement and double vision
‐ improvement in quality of life
The evidence suggests that rituximab, compared to placebo, results in little to no difference in any of the outcomes outlined above, measured at 24 weeks following treatment. 
The number of adverse events was higher for rituximab compared to both intravenous methylprednisolone and placebo, but the evidence for whether there was a true difference was uncertain. 
