Interventions for preventing falls in older people in care facilities and hospitals
Review question How effective are interventions designed to reduce falls in older people in care facilities and hospitals? 
Background Falls by older people in care facilities, such as nursing homes, and hospitals are common events that may cause loss of independence, injuries, and sometimes death as a result of injury. Effective interventions to prevent falls are therefore important. Many types of interventions are in use. These include exercise, medication interventions that include vitamin D supplementation and reviews of the drugs that people are taking, environment or assistive technologies including bed or chair alarms or the use of special (low/low) beds, social environment interventions that target staff members and changes in the organisational system, and knowledge interventions. A special type of intervention is the multifactorial intervention, where the selection of single interventions such as exercise and vitamin D supplementation is based on an assessment of a person's risk factors for falling. Falls are reported in two ways in our review. One outcome is rate of falls, which is the number of falls. The other outcome is risk of falling, which is the number of people who had one or more falls. 
Search date 
We searched the healthcare literature for reports of randomised controlled trials relevant to this review up to August 2017. 
Study characteristics This review included 95 randomised controlled trials involving 138,164 participants. Seventy‐one trials (40,374 participants) were in care facilities, and 24 (97,790 participants) in hospitals. On average, participants were 84 years old in care facilities and 78 years old in hospitals. In care facilities, 75% were women and in hospitals, 52% were women. 
Quality of the evidence The majority of trials were at high risk of bias, mostly relating to lack of blinding. With few exceptions, the quality of evidence for individual interventions in either setting was generally rated as low or very low. Risk of fracture and adverse events were generally poorly reported and, where reported, the evidence was very low quality, which means that we are uncertain of the estimates. 
Key results 
There was evidence, often from single studies, for a wide range of interventions used for preventing falls in both settings. However, in the following we summarise only the falls outcomes for four key interventions in care facilities and three key interventions in hospitals. 
Care facilities  We are uncertain of the effect of exercise on the rate of falls (very low‐quality evidence) and it may make little or no difference to the risk of falling (low‐quality evidence). General medication review may make little or no difference to the rate of falls (low‐quality evidence) or the risk of falling (low‐quality evidence). Prescription of vitamin D probably reduces the rate of falls (moderate‐quality evidence) but probably makes little or no difference to the risk of falling (moderate‐quality evidence). The population included in these studies appeared to have low vitamin D levels. We are uncertain of the effect of multifactorial interventions on the rate of falls (very low‐quality evidence). They may make little or no difference to the risk of falling (low‐quality evidence). 
Hospitals  We are uncertain whether physiotherapy aimed specifically at reducing falls in addition to usual rehabilitation in the ward has an effect on the rate of falls or reduces the risk of falling (very low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain of the effect of bed alarms on the rate of falls or risk of falling (very low‐quality evidence). Multifactorial interventions may reduce the rate of falls, although this is more likely in a rehabilitation or geriatric ward setting (low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain of the effect of these interventions on risk of falling. 
