Is recent‐onset psychosis best treated by a specialist mental health team?
What is psychosis? 
Psychosis describes conditions affecting the mind, in which people have trouble distinguishing what is real from what is not real. This might involve seeing or hearing things that other people cannot see or hear (hallucinations), or believing things that are not true (delusions). The combination of hallucinations and delusional thinking can cause severe distress and a change in behaviour. A first episode psychosis is the first time a person experiences an episode of psychosis. Recent‐onset psychosis is the first few years of the illness after someone experiences it for the first time. 
Psychosis is treatable 
Many people recover from a first episode and never experience another psychotic episode.Mental health professionals assess a person before recommending a specific treatment. Depending on the services available, they may send people for treatment to: 
‐ a community mental health team: mental health professionals who support people with complex mental health conditions; 
‐ a crisis resolution team: mental health professionals who treat people who would otherwise need treatment in hospital; or 
‐ an early intervention team: mental health professionals who work with people who are currently or have recently experienced their first episode of psychosis. 
Early intervention teams specialise in treating recent‐onset psychosis, and aim to treat it as quickly and intensively as possible. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out whether specialist early intervention teams were more successful at treating recent‐onset psychosis than outpatient or community mental health teams that do not specialise in treating it. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that investigated the use of early intervention teams to treat recent‐onset psychosis compared with standard community mental health care. 
We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
We wanted to find out, at the end of the treatment:
‐ how many people recovered;
‐ how many people stopped their treatment too soon;
‐ how many people were admitted to a psychiatric hospital, and for how long;
‐ the state of people's general mental health and functioning (how well they coped with daily life); and 
‐ how many people died.
Search date: we included evidence published up to 22 October 2019. 
What we found 
We found four studies in 1145 people (65% men; average age 23 to 26 years) with recent‐onset psychosis. The studies compared treatment by specialist early intervention teams against 'usual treatment' (treatment by community health or outpatient mental health teams). 
The studies took place in community mental health services in high‐income countries: Denmark, Sweden, the UK and the USA. The studies lasted from 18 to 24 months. 
What are the results of our review? 
Compared with usual treatment, treatment by an early intervention team:
‐may help more people recover from psychosis (2 studies; 194 people);
‐ probably reduces how many people stop their treatment too soon (3 studies; 630 people);
‐ may reduce the number of people admitted to a psychiatric hospital (4 studies; 1145 people) 
‐ may reduce the time spent in a psychiatric hospital (1 study; 547 people); and
‐ may moderately improve people's general functioning (2 studies; 467 people).
We were uncertain about whether treatment by an early intervention team affects general psychotic symptoms (2 studies; 304 people), or its effect on how many people died (3 studies; 741 people). 
How reliable are these results? 
We are moderately confident that treatment by an early intervention team probably reduces the number of people who stop treatment too soon, although this result may change when more evidence is available. 
We are less confident about how many people recover from psychosis, or are admitted to a psychiatric hospital, how long they stay in hospital, and any improvements in people's general functioning. These results are likely to change when more evidence is available. 
Key message 
Using specialist early intervention teams to treat recent‐onset psychosis is likely to have benefits, such as more people continuing with their treatment, and increasing the number of people who recover. 
