The effect of manually‐generated reminders delivered to providers on paper on professional practice and patient outcomes 
What is the aim of this review? 
In this Cochrane Review we aimed to find out if health workers who are given reminders on paper give better health care. The reminders contained information about the patients, for instance recommendation to measure blood pressure. We collected and analysed all relevant studies and found 63 studies. 
Key messages 
It seems likely that providing reminders to health workers probably leads to small‐to‐moderate improvements in their practice measured as adherence to clinical recommendations. It is uncertain whether providing reminders has an effect on patient outcomes. 
What was studied in the review? 
Health workers do not always provide care that is recommended by clinical guidelines or standards, because of too much information or unconscious forgetfulness. One possible solution is to give them paper reminders that were not created by a computer. These are particularly important in countries where electronic records are not widely available. Reminders may help health workers overcome those problems by prompting them to follow clinical recommendations in guidelines or by providing information in a simple and timely way. In this review we evaluated the effects of reminders generated manually and delivered on paper on professional practice and patient outcomes. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We identified 63 studies and included 57 in our analysis. The studies evaluated reminders aimed at ordering screening tests, providing vaccinations, prescribing specific medications, or discussing care with patients. The studies show that: 
‐ reminders alone (single‐component intervention) probably improve professional practice, measured as compliance with recommendations, compared with usual care; 
‐ reminders added to one or more co‐interventions (multicomponent intervention) may slightly improve professional practice, measured as compliance with recommendations, compared with the co‐intervention(s) without the reminder component; 
