Corticosteroids for children with septic arthritis
Researchers conducted a review of the effects of corticosteroids given in addition to antibiotics to children with septic arthritis. Evidence was sought until April 2018. After searching for all relevant studies, reviewers found two studies with 149 children. These studies were conducted in hospitalised children with a normal immune system between the ages of three months and 18 years living in Costa Rica and Israel. The longest follow‐up was one year. Reviewer findings are summarised below. 
What is septic arthritis and what are corticosteroids?  Septic arthritis, which is more frequent in children, is a serious disease caused by bacteria that infect the joints. Patients are usually treated with antibiotics, but secondary inflammation can destroy the joint and can reduce the ability of the joint to function normally. Corticosteroids are a group of medications with anti‐inflammatory properties. Corticosteroids may reduce the consequences of inflammation in the joints. 
For children with septic arthritis who are taking antibiotics compared to placebo (fake medication)  
1. Corticosteroids may reduce pain in affected joints at one year of follow‐up
2. Corticosteroids may improve normal function of affected joints at one year of follow‐up
3. Corticosteroids may reduce days of intravenous antibiotic treatment needed
4. Corticosteroids may have little or no effect on total or serious adverse effects
We do not have information about the effects of corticosteroids on activities of daily living. 
What happens to children with septic arthritis who take corticosteroids in addition to antibiotics? 
Absence of pain  
1. 24 more of 100 children experienced absence of pain after 12 months with corticosteroids (24% absolute improvement) 
2. 96 of 100 children experienced absence of pain compared to 72 of 100 children who took a placebo 
Activities of daily living  
Included studies did not report this outcome.
Normal physical joint function  
1. 24 more of 100 children who received corticosteroids had normal function of the joint after 12 months (24% absolute improvement) 
2. 98 of 100 children experienced absence of pain compared to 74 of 100 children who received a placebo 
Number of days of intravenous antibiotic treatment  
1. Children who received corticosteroids compared with placebo had 2.77 fewer days of intravenous antibiotic treatment 
2. Children who received corticosteroids had 8.09 days of intravenous antibiotic treatment
3. Children who received placebo had 10.86 days of intravenous antibiotic treatment
Length of hospital stay  
1. We are uncertain whether corticosteroids had an effect on the length of hospital stay because the evidence was of very low quality 
