Late erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents to prevent red blood cell transfusion in preterm or low birth weight infants 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of late initiation of erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents treatment between eight and 28 days after birth, for reducing the use of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions in preterm or low birth weight infants. 
Background 
The percentage of circulating red blood cells (haematocrit) falls after birth in all infants. This is particularly true in preterm infants due to their poor response to anaemia and to the amount of blood that is drawn for necessary testing. Low plasma levels of erythropoietin (EPO), a substance in the blood that stimulates red blood cell production in preterm infants, provide a rationale for the use of erythropoiesis‐stimulating agents (EPO and darbepoetin) to prevent or treat anaemia. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 5 June 2018.
Study characteristics 
To date, 1651 infants (between eight and 28 days of age) born preterm have been enrolled in 31 studies of late administration of EPO to reduce the use of red blood cell transfusions and to prevent donor exposure. 
There were no studies that used darbepoetin.
Study funding sources 
We have not received any funding for this review and we have no conflicts of interest to declare. 
Key results 
The risk of receiving red blood transfusion is reduced following initiation of EPO treatment. However, the overall benefit of EPO is reduced as many of these infants had been exposed to donor blood prior to entry into the trials. Treatment with late EPO did not have any important effects on death or common complications of preterm birth, except for trends towards an increased risk for retinopathy of prematurity. Retinopathy of prematurity is a disease of the eye affecting infants born preterm. It is thought to be caused by disorganised growth of retinal blood vessels, which may result in scarring and retinal detachment. Retinopathy of prematurity can be mild and may resolve spontaneously, but it may lead to blindness in serious cases. 
Quality of the evidence 
The study quality varied and important information regarding the random sequence generation and whether the allocation was concealed or not was often missing. Sample sizes were small and long‐term outcomes (18 to 24 months of corrected age) were not reported. The quality of the evidence was very low for the outcomes of "use of one or more red blood cell transfusions," "retinopathy of prematurity (all stages or stage not reported)" and for "retinopathy of prematurity (stage ≥ 3)". For the outcomes of "necrotising enterocolitis" and "mortality", the quality of the evidence was moderate. 
