In vitro maturation in subfertile women with polycystic ovarian syndrome who are undergoing assisted reproduction 
Review question 
Is in vitro maturation efficient compared to standard assisted reproduction techniques (ART) in subfertile women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS)? 
Background 
Women with PCOS undergoing conventional ART are at an increased risk of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome, a medical condition that can occur in women who take fertility medications to stimulate oocytes growth. The condition is associated with enlargement of both ovaries, fluid in the body of the woman, around her lungs and/or her heart, serious illness, and in rare cases, death. When women with PCOS take medications to stimulate their ovaries, the oocytes produced are often immature, which is the main reason that these oocytes are poorly fertilised and lead to low pregnancy rates. In addition, as previously noted, stimulation of the ovaries of women with PCOS with drugs often leads to ovarian hyperstimulation. These women may thus benefit from earlier retrieval of oocytes followed by their maturation in the laboratory, a technique known as in vitro maturation (IVM), as this would reduce the aforementioned risks. However, while successful fertilisation, embryo development, and term pregnancies resulting from IVM oocytes have been reported, some concern has been expressed regarding the safety of the method in terms of the health of the children born and the rate of genetic anomalies they carry. We reviewed the evidence up to April 2018, for the third time. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a comprehensive literature search of the standard medical databases (from database inception to 17 April 2018) in consultation with the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Information Specialist, for all randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to a treatment group using a random method) investigating the efficiency of IVM compared to conventional ART in subfertile women with PCOS. We searched for and included studies irrespective of language and country of origin. Two review authors independently selected and evaluated studies, extracted data, and attempted to contact the authors of studies for which data were missing. We found two studies (71 women), published as abstracts in international conferences, and six ongoing trials that met our inclusion requirements. 
