Use of clozapine in people with intellectual disabilities and psychoses
Review question 
What is the evidence that clozapine can be helpful for adults with intellectual disabilities who have psychoses? 
Background 
People with intellectual disability have a low score on intelligence tests. They have problems in areas like self‐care, social relationships, work, education and dealing with the challenges of daily life. To make a diagnosis of intellectual disability, we use tests in which we compare the performance of an individual person on certain tasks with other people of his or her age. People with intellectual disabilities are unable to process information as efficiently as people without intellectual disability. Depending on the severity of their condition, they need varying degrees of support to cope with the demands and expectations of life. Those who have a mild intellectual disability are able to manage their affairs with some additional support. Those who have a severe intellectual disability, most of the time are unable to live independently and require support on a daily basis. 
Psychosis is a disorder of the mind in which people hear voices when there is no external source of the voices and they harbour unfounded beliefs called delusions. Psychosis affects their behaviour, relationships, performance at work, and other spheres of daily life. Psychosis is three times more common in people with an intellectual disability than those without an intellectual disability. Psychosis is treated with a group of drugs called antipsychotics. These drugs can have different desired and undesired (i.e. side effects) effects in different people. When at least two antipsychotics are not effective in treating the symptoms of psychosis, it is labelled as treatment‐resistant psychosis. Clozapine is recommended for treatment‐resistant psychosis. 
People who have an intellectual disability and who also suffer from psychosis are at a higher risk of developing treatment‐resistant psychosis. We systematically reviewed all available evidence which examined the effects of clozapine in people with intellectual disabilities and psychoses. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 15 December 2014. Although there were reports on studies involving only one person or groups of small numbers of people, we did not find any trial that compared groups of people with intellectual disabilities and psychoses who were prescribed clozapine, with other groups of people prescribed other drugs or who took no drugs at all. 
