Deep transverse friction massage for the treatment of lateral elbow or lateral knee tendinitis 
Review question 
We conducted an update of the review of the effects of deep transverse friction massage (DTFM) for people with lateral elbow or knee tendinitis. We found two studies (no new additional studies in this update) with 57 people. 
Background: what is tendinitis and what is deep tendon friction massage? 
Tendons are fibrous structures that attach muscle to bone. Tendinitis essentially is seen when a tendon suffers from inflammation (painful swelling). The inflammation is due to too much stress on the tendon caused by performing repetitive movements. This causes pain and stiffness in the joint such as the elbow or the knee. 
Deep transverse friction massage (DTFM) is a physical therapy technique often used to reduce damage and scarring caused by inflammation. It increases blood flow to the joint, which facilitates healing of the tendon by increasing the supply of oxygen transported to the injury. 
Study characteristics 
One study with a duration of five weeks reviewed (1) the effects of deep transverse friction massage combined with therapeutic ultrasound and placebo ointment compared with therapeutic ultrasound and placebo ointment in 20 people with lateral elbow tendinitis (tennis elbow), as well as (2) the effects of deep transverse friction massage combined with phonophoresis compared with phonophoresis alone in 20 people with lateral elbow tendinitis (tennis elbow). The other study, with a duration of two weeks, reviewed the effects of deep transverse friction massage with physical therapy intervention compared with physical therapy intervention alone in 17 people with lateral knee tendinitis. 
Key results 
What happens to people with lateral elbow tendinitis (tennis elbow) who are treated with deep transverse friction massage? 
• We are uncertain whether deep transverse friction massage improves pain and function (very low‐quality evidence). 
• No studies reported pain relief of 30% or greater, quality of life, patient global assessment, adverse events, and withdrawals due to adverse events. 
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. 
