Chewing gum after surgery to help recovery of the digestive system
Background 
When people have surgery on their abdomen, the digestive system can stop working for a few days. This is called ileus, and can be painful and uncomfortable. There are different causes of ileus, and several ways of treating or preventing it. One possible way of preventing ileus is by chewing gum. The idea is that chewing gum tricks the body into thinking it is eating, causing the digestive system to start working again. It is important to do this review because ileus is common: it is estimated that up to a third of people having bowel surgery suffer from ileus. 
Main Findings 
This review found 81 relevant studies that recruited over 9000 participants in total. The studies mainly focussed on people having bowel surgery or caesarean section, but there were some studies of other surgery types. There were few studies of children. Most studies were of poor quality, which may mean their results are less reliable. We found some evidence that people who chewed gum after an operation were able to pass wind and have bowel movements sooner than people who did not chew gum. We also found some evidence that people who chewed gum after an operation had bowel sounds (gurgling sounds heard using a stethoscope held to the abdomen) slightly sooner than people who did not chew gum. There was a small difference in how long people stayed in hospital between people who did or did not chew gum. There were no differences in complications (such as infection or death) between people who did or did not chew gum. There was also no difference in the overall cost of treatment between people who did or did not chew gum. 
Conclusions 
There is some evidence that chewing gum after surgery may help the digestive system to recover. However, the studies included in this review are generally of poor quality, which meant that their results may not be reliable. We also know that there are many factors affecting ileus, and that modern treatment plans attempt to reduce risk of ileus. Therefore to further explore using chewing gum after surgery, more studies would be needed which are larger, of better quality, include different types of surgery, and consider recent changes in health care systems. 
