What is the best way to use nicotine replacement therapy to quit smoking?
Background 
Nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) is a medicine that is available as skin patches, chewing gum, nasal and oral sprays, inhalers, lozenges and tablets that deliver nicotine to the brain. The aim of NRT is to replace the nicotine that people who smoke usually get from cigarettes, so the urge to smoke is reduced and they can stop smoking altogether. We know that NRT improves a person's chances of stopping smoking, and that people use it to quit. This review looks at the different ways to use NRT to quit smoking, and which of these work best to quit smoking for six months or longer. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes 63 trials covering 41,509 participants. All studies were conducted in people who wanted to quit smoking, and most were conducted in adults. People who enrolled in the studies typically smoked at least 15 cigarettes a day at the start of the studies. Studies lasted for at least six months.The evidence is up to date to April 2018. 
Key results 
Using nicotine patch and another type of NRT (such as gum or lozenge) together made it 15% to 36% more likely that a person would successfully stop smoking than if they used one type of NRT alone. People were also more likely to quit successfully if they used higher‐dose nicotine patches (containing 25 mg (worn over 16 hours) or 21 mg (worn over 24 hours) of nicotine compared to 15 mg (worn over 16 hours) or 14 mg of nicotine (worn over 24 hours)) or higher‐dose nicotine gum (containing 4 mg of nicotine compared to 2 mg of nicotine). Using NRT before a quit day as well as after may help more people to quit than only using it after, but more evidence is needed to strengthen this conclusion. However, people who smoke have the same chances of quitting successfully whether they use a nicotine patch to quit or another type of NRT, such as gum, lozenge or nasal spray. 
We also looked at how long NRT should be used for, whether NRT should be used on a schedule or as wanted, and whether more people stop smoking when NRT is provided for free versus if they have to pay for it. However, more research is needed to answer these questions. 
Most studies did not look at safety. Where studies did look at safety, very few people experienced negative effects of NRT. Evidence from another review shows that NRT is a safe medication. 
Quality of the evidence 
There is high‐certainty evidence that combination NRT works better than a single form of NRT, that higher‐dose nicotine gum works better than lower‐dose gum, and that there is no difference in effect between different types of NRT (such as gum or lozenge). This means that future research is very unlikely to change our conclusions. This is because the evidence is based on a large number of participants, and the studies were well‐conducted. However, the quality of the evidence was moderate, low or very low for all of the other questions we looked at. This means that our findings may change when more new research is carried out. In most cases this is because there were not enough studies, there were problems with the design of studies that do exist, and these studies were too small. We rated all of the evidence looking at the safety of using NRT in different ways to be low or very low quality, because many studies did not report on safety. 
