Can smartphone apps improve access to asthma self management?
Background  
Self management programmes have been advocated as a means to help people with asthma achieve better levels of asthma control and better asthma‐related outcomes. However, there are a number of barriers affecting the successful implementation and uptake of these programmes. These barriers call for innovative approaches for the delivery of self management programmes. Of particular interest is the use of consumer devices such as smartphones and tablet computers as a means of delivering these programmes within the existing healthcare configuration. 
Review question  
This review assessed whether smartphone and tablet computer apps are effective tools for supporting patients with asthma to self manage their own condition. 
Description of the studies  
We included two studies with a total of 408 participants. Both studies evaluated the effect of a mobile phone‐based asthma self management intervention on asthma control by comparing it to traditional, paper‐based asthma self management. One study allowed participants to keep daily entries of their asthma symptoms, asthma medication usage, peak flow readings and peak flow variability on their mobile phone, from which their level of asthma control was calculated remotely and displayed together with the corresponding asthma self management recommendations. In the other study, participants recorded the same readings twice daily, and they received immediate self management feedback in the form of a three‐colour traffic light display on their phones. Participants falling into the amber zone of their action plan twice, or into the red zone once, received a phone call from an asthma nurse who enquired about the reasons for their uncontrolled asthma. 
Key results  
Due to the lack of enough included studies and the considerable differences between them, we were unable to obtain conclusive answers to our research question. One study showed that the use of a smartphone app can result in better asthma‐related quality of life and lung function, and reduced visits to the emergency department. The other study failed to show any significant improvements in asthma‐related outcomes after using a smartphone app as a delivery mechanism. 
Quality of the evidence  
The current evidence base is not sufficient to advise clinicians, policy‐makers and the general public with regards to the effectiveness of smartphone and tablet computer apps for the delivery of asthma self management programmes. 
