Herbal medicine for cervical degenerative disc disease
Significance of the review 
Degenerative changes of the cervical spine are quite common and can cause severe neck pain, impairment and decreased quality of life. Degenerative disc disease of the cervical spine can result in severe pain, instability and radiculopathy (pain spreading down the arms and into the head), myelopathy (spasticity and weakness of arms or hands, which may include "numb and clumsy" hands) or both. Chinese oral and topical herbal medicines are being used to treat many neck disorders. Some have been tested in clinical trials.  
Description of the trials 
Two Chinese oral herbal medications were tested in three randomized controlled trials that included 701 adults with chronic neck pain with radicular signs or symptoms or myelopathy. One oral herbal medication was compared with Mobicox (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory medication) and Methycobal (drug to reduce numbness, tingling in the arms), and the other (Compound Qishe Tablet) with placebo and Jingfukang. A topical herbal medicine (Compound Extractum Nucis Vomicae) was compared with Diclofenac Diethylamine Emulgel (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory medication). 
Findings 
Oral herbal medications may reduce neck pain more than placebo and Jingfukang. A topical herbal medicine (Compound Extractum Nucis Vomicae) also relieved neck pain in the short term (four weeks), but the trail had a high risk of bias. 
Limitations 
All four included studies were in Chinese and two of these studies were unpublished. Half of the trials had a low risk of bias, but they only tested the effects of short term use (up to eight weeks). The size of the studies was small. There is a need for trials with adequate numbers of participants that address the long‐term efficacy or effectiveness of Chinese herbal medicine compared to placebo.  
Conclusion 
For chronic neck pain with or without radicular symptoms, there is low quality evidence that Compound Qishe Tablet is more effective than placebo for pain relief, measured at the end of the treatment. However, the size of the studies was small and the effect was measured in the short‐term. Further research is very likely to change both the effect size and our confidence in the results. There is a need for trials with adequate numbers of participants that address long‐term efficacy or effectiveness of herbal medicine compared to placebo. 
