Extended‐release methylphenidate for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults 
Review question  
This review investigated the positive and negative effects of methylphenidate and compared them to placebo or to other medications in adults diagnosed with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD). We particularly focused on effects on daily functioning, such as the number of days a person is absent from work, and the effects on ADHD symptoms and quality of life assessed by the patients themselves, and also by a doctor or a researcher. 
Background  
ADHD is a psychiatric diagnosis characterised by difficulties with concentration, hyperactivity, and impulsive behaviour that often affects social life, the ability to do well at work, and to maintain personal relationships. Increasingly more adults are diagnosed with ADHD and receive drugs. Treatment of ADHD should consist of a range of different approaches, including psychotherapy, social interventions, other types of non‐medical treatments, and pharmacological drugs. Methylphenidate and amphetamine are the recommended first‐choice ADHD drugs. Methylphenidate is a drug that increases the activity of the central nervous system (CNS). This review focuses on methylphenidate given as a pill that you only need to take once or twice a day, a so‐called 'extended‐release formulation'. Methylphenidate has been tested in many clinical trials in adults with ADHD, but the overall positive and negative effects seem uncertain, because of concerns about how these trials were designed and how the results were reported. Methylphenidate is also used in children and adolescents with ADHD. 
Study characteristics  
The search is current to February 2021. We found 24 studies (5066 participants) diagnosed with ADHD and we also identified one ongoing study. In each study the participants were divided into two groups; one group received extended‐release methylphenidate and the other received placebo, also known as a 'sugar pill'. Two trials also included another ADHD drug as a third group. The median age (i.e. the middle age from a list of all ages arranged in order from youngest to eldest) of the participants was 36 years old. The studies were primarily conducted in Europe and North America in outpatients, which means that the participants were not hospitalised during the trials. The studies lasted around eight weeks. Half of the trials were sponsored by the companies that also sell the drugs, which may have affected the way these trials were designed. 
Key results  
Compared with placebo, methylphenidate as an extended‐release pill reduced the severity of ADHD symptoms when rated by the participants, investigators, as well as family members or spouses. Methylphenidate did not reduce the number of days missed at work, and the effect on quality of life rated by the participants was small. The trials did not find an increased risk of serious harms but methylphenidate increased the overall risk of experiencing any harm.  
