Does cleaning venous leg ulcers help them to heal?
Background 
Leg ulcers are open skin wounds that develop below the knee, usually because blood flow is poor in the lower leg. This can occur because of blockages, for example when small blood clots form in the veins. It can also happen when the valves (flaps) in the veins that prevent blood from flowing backwards stop working properly. Poor blood flow damages the skin and tissue, and creates venous leg ulcers. 
Ulcers are unsightly and may become painful or infected. On average, ulcers take from six to nine months to heal. However, some ulcers can take years to heal, and a small number never do. Once ulcers have healed, they can reoccur. 
The main treatment for venous leg ulcers is to use bandages or stockings that compress the leg (compression therapy), to increase blood flow in the veins. It is also thought to be important to clean the wound. Different types of cleaning solutions can be used, including: normal saline; water; antiseptics (solutions that stop or slow down the growth of micro‐organisms such as bacteria); detergents (solutions that remove bacteria and dirt); or disinfectants (solutions such as bleach, that kill micro‐organisms). 
Cleaning solutions can be applied to the ulcer using a swab (similar to a cotton bud), a syringe with a needle, or a spray canister. Ulcers can also be bathed in the cleaning solution, using a basin or bucket, or during a shower. Cleaning can cause discomfort, and may be painful. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out:
‐ whether cleaning venous leg ulcers helps them to become smaller and heal;
‐ whether some cleaning solutions, or methods of applying solutions, are more effective than others; 
‐ which cleaning solution people prefer and find easiest to use;
‐ whether cleaning wounds has an impact on quality of life;
‐ how much cleaning wounds costs; and
‐ whether cleaning wounds is associated with adverse (unwanted) effects such as pain, infection or skin damage. 
Our methods 
First, we searched for randomised controlled studies (clinical studies where the treatment or care people receive is chosen at random). These studies provide the most reliable health evidence about the effects of a treatment. We then compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What we found 
We found four studies that involved a total of 254 people with venous leg ulcers. There were 108 men and 144 women, all over 18 years old (information about gender was missing for two people). 
The studies compared the effects of:
‐ a disinfectant and antiseptic agent (polyhexamethylene biguanide) applied using a syringe with a needle to flush (irrigate) the ulcer with fluid, against a salt (saline) solution; 
‐ a gentle spray of a bleaching and antiseptic agent (aqueous oxygen peroxide, which is ozone dissolved in water), against sterile water; 
‐ a detergent (propyl betaine combined with polyhexanide), against a saline solution – method of application not reported; and 
‐ an antiseptic (octenidine dihydrochloride combined with phenoxyethanol) sprayed onto the wound, against a solution of several salts dissolved in water (Ringer’s solution). 
No studies compared cleaning with no cleaning, or compared different cleaning methods.
We cannot tell whether cleaning wounds is beneficial or associated with any unwanted effects. This is because we have too little confidence in the evidence available regarding healing, changes in ulcer size, pain and unwanted effects. No study reported on patient preference, ease of use, cost or impact on quality of life. 
What does this mean? 
We do not know whether cleaning solutions are better than sterile water or saline solutions to help venous leg ulcers heal, or whether the choice of cleaning solution or method of application makes any difference to venous leg ulcer healing. Our confidence in the available evidence is very low. The results of our review are likely to change if more evidence becomes available. 
