Treatment of sudden hearing loss with corticosteroids applied into the middle ear
What is sudden hearing loss? 
Sudden hearing loss is a condition characterised by the sudden onset (usually within 72 hours) of reduced or absent hearing. 
How is it treated? 
People have often used corticosteroids – a type of anti‐inflammatory medicine ‐ to treat the condition. These medicines are usually taken by mouth or injected into the body (known as systemic corticosteroids), but can also be given as an injection directly into the middle ear, through the eardrum (known as intratympanic corticosteroids). 
What did we want to find out? 
It is not clear whether intratympanic treatment with corticosteroids is effective, or which of these treatments (intratympanic or systemic) is best for treating this condition. 
What did we do? 
We searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature, compared the results and summarised the evidence. We also assessed how certain the evidence was, considering factors such as study size and the way studies were conducted. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What did we find? 
We found 30 studies that included 2133 people. These studies compared intratympanic treatment with corticosteroids with no treatment, with placebo (sham or dummy treatment) and with corticosteroids that were taken by mouth or injection into the body (systemic corticosteroids). We took into account whether people were having their first treatment for sudden deafness or whether they had previously had some other kind of treatment (which had not worked). 
For people having their first treatment for sudden deafness  
We did not find any studies that compared intratympanic corticosteroids to no treatment or placebo (dummy) treatment.  
Intratympanic corticosteroids might result in little or no difference in hearing when compared to people who receive systemic corticosteroids, and might make little to no difference in the number of people whose hearing improves. The side effects may be different with these two types of treatment. With intratympanic treatment, people may have an increase in the risk of dizziness or ear pain as compared to systemic corticosteroids, typically at the time of injection, and some may develop a small hole in the ear drum. However, systemic treatment may also cause an increased risk of different side effects, such as problems with sugar levels in the blood.  
Taking intratympanic corticosteroids as well as systemic corticosteroids might result in a small improvement in hearing compared to systemic corticosteroids alone, but it is uncertain how many people would notice an improvement. As above, intratympanic treatment may cause some side effects, but we cannot be certain of the number of people who may experience these.  
For people having additional treatment for sudden deafness (when their first treatment did not work)  
When compared to no treatment or a placebo (dummy) treatment, intratympanic corticosteroids may result in a much larger number of people having an improvement in their hearing but may only improve hearing slightly. As with first treatment, intratympanic injections might cause some side effects, such as pain or dizziness at the time of the injection, or development of a small hole in the ear drum. We are not certain how often these side effects will happen.  
