Exercise for improving outcomes after osteoporotic spine fracture
Researchers in Cochrane conducted an update of a 2013 Cochrane Review of the effects of exercise for people with osteoporotic spine fractures. After searching for all relevant studies up to November 2017, they found nine studies with a total of 749 people; of which two were new studies.  
What are osteoporotic spine fractures and what is exercise? 
Bone is a living part of your body. Throughout your life, old bone is removed and replaced with new, stronger bone. In someone with osteoporosis, old bone is removed faster than the new bone can replace it, making bones weaker and more likely to break. Exercise is often recommended for people with osteoporosis. Exercise programs may need to be modified for individuals at high risk of fracture, such as individuals with spine fractures due to osteoporosis. It is possible that exercise, if not done correctly, could increase the risk of fracture. 
What happens to people with osteoporotic spine fracture who exercise? 
In people over 40 years of age with a spine fracture due to osteoporosis, we do not have precise information on whether new fractures or falls happen after starting an exercise program, or about side effects and complications, especially in men. 
In this review update, new findings suggest that exercise probably improves physical performance in people with spine fractures. However, it is uncertain whether exercise has any effect on pain and quality of life. 
We cannot tell from our results whether exercise will cause harm, but there was evidence of adverse events related to exercise (including two rib fractures). Individuals at high risk of fracture during exercise and during transitions (e.g. rolling from one's back to stomach, handling weights) are advised to take precautions to reduce risk. Many of the interventions were delivered by a physical therapist in a research facility or center, so no conclusions can be made about exercise interventions by other health professionals or in other settings. 
