Medications for discontinuation of long‐term benzodiazepine use
Background 
Benzodiazepines are widely prescribed for long‐term use despite recommendations of only short‐term use. It is often difficult to discontinue benzodiazepines after more than a few weeks of treatment due to the development of physical and psychological dependence. This review aimed to assess the effect and safety of medications to facilitate benzodiazepine discontinuation in chronic benzodiazepine users. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to October 2017.
Study characteristics 
We identified 38 randomised controlled trials involving 2543 participants who had either been treated for more than two months with benzodiazepines, or who had been diagnosed with benzodiazepine dependence. We included studies irrespective of whether benzodiazepines were prescribed for anxiety, insomnia, or any other condition. 
The average age of participants was around 50 years, and the majority of participants were women in most studies. Twenty‐four trials were conducted in Europe; eight trials in the US or Canada; and six trials in Asia. The trials involved a wide range of medications to facilitate reduction or discontinuation of benzodiazepine use. Fourteen of the 38 included studies were partly funded by the drug manufacturer; nine studies were funded by government agencies; and 15 studies did not state the source of funding. The duration of the trials ranged between 1 and 24 weeks; the average trial duration was 9 weeks. 
Key results 
We extracted data on 18 different comparisons in a total of 2295 participants. We are uncertain whether valproate and tricyclic antidepressants increase the chance of discontinuing benzodiazepines, and whether benzodiazepine withdrawal symptoms are reduced by pregabalin, captodiame, paroxetine, tricyclic antidepressants, and flumazenil, as we assessed the quality of the evidence as very low. We are uncertain as to whether symptoms of anxiety after withdrawal of benzodiazepines are reduced by carbamazepine, pregabalin, captodiame, paroxetine, and flumazenil, as we assessed the quality of the evidence as very low. The effects of the evaluated medications were too uncertain to inform clinical practice due to risk of bias (systematic errors with overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms) and risk of chance occurrence (random errors giving any result). Tolerability and safety were poorly reported across the included studies, making it impossible to assess the balance between possible benefits and adverse effects. Consequently, no conclusions can be drawn about the effectiveness of the interventions. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was generally low or very low due to the small number of trials including a limited number of participants for each comparison; dissimilar results across studies; poor study design; and pronounced financial involvement of the pharmaceutical industry. Randomised controlled trials are therefore needed without risk of bias and random significant results involving long‐term assessments of participants conducted without involvement of industry. 
