Intrauterine progesterone‐releasing system for treatment of endometrial hyperplasia
Review question 
Researchers in Cochrane reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of the levonorgestrel‐intrauterine system (LNG‐IUS) compared with other forms of treatment in women with endometrial hyperplasia. 
Background 
Endometrial hyperplasia (EH) is a thickening (or overgrowth) of the endometrium (inner lining) of the uterus (womb) resulting from an excess of the hormone oestrogen, which is not balanced by the hormone progesterone. Women with EH commonly present to their doctor with abnormal vaginal bleeding. EH increases the risk of developing endometrial cancer, and can be described as without atypia (associated with a low risk of progression to atypia and cancer) or with atypia (where the cells are structurally abnormal, and have a higher risk of developing cancer). Endometrial cancer is the sixth most common cancer in women worldwide and is most commonly diagnosed in women after the menopause, particularly around the sixth and seventh decades of life. The goal of treatment of EH is to prevent endometrial cancer from developing, and depends on the degree of atypia, menopausal status, and fertility preferences. Treatment can be medical (hormonal) or surgical (hysterectomy). 
Progestogen tablets taken daily is the usual treatment for EH without atypia and in some cases of EH with atypia in women wishing to preserve fertility or unable to tolerate surgery. Progestogen is not always successful at reversing EH and has side effects. The LNG‐IUS is a T‐shaped device placed into the uterus which slowly releases progestogen with a direct effect on the endometrium. It can be inserted in clinic and remain in place for up to five years. LNG‐IUS is an alternative approach to treat EH which may be more effective, have fewer side effects and be preferred by women. 
Study characteristics 
We included 13 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the LNG‐IUS in 1657 women with EH to non‐intrauterine progestogens (1327 women) or no treatment (190 women). We found no trials comparing the LNG‐IUS with surgery or placebo. The women were aged between 22 and 70 years. All studies evaluated women with EH without atypia, and one of the studies also included women with EH with atypia. Two studies did not have enough data to analyse. The evidence is current to May 2020. 
Key results 
There is moderate‐quality evidence that three to six months of treatment with the LNG‐IUS is probably more effective than non‐intrauterine progestogens in reversing EH at short‐term follow‐up (up to six months). This suggests that if regression of EH following treatment with a non‐intrauterine progestogen is assumed to be 72%, regression of EH following treatment with LNG‐IUS would be between 85% and 92%. There is low‐quality evidence that LNG‐IUS may be more effective in reversing EH at long‐term follow‐up (12 months up to two years). We found no studies that looked at longer‐term duration of treatment or follow‐up. 
There was insufficient evidence to determine adverse effects associated with the LNG‐IUS device; only one study reported on expulsion (when the device falls out of the womb). 
