Duodenum‐preserving pancreatic resection versus pancreaticoduodenectomy for chronic pancreatitis 
Review question 
Should the duodenum (upper part of the small intestine) be removed while removing the pancreatic head in people with symptoms of chronic pancreatitis? 
Background 
The pancreas is an organ in the belly (abdomen) that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system (tubes that carry the pancreatic juice secreted by the pancreatic cells), which empties into the small bowel. It also comprises the Islets of Langerhans, which secrete several hormones including insulin (helps regulate blood sugar). Chronic pancreatitis is long‐standing and progressive inflammation of the pancreas resulting in destruction and replacement of pancreatic material (tissue) with fibrous tissue. This may lead to digestive enzyme deficiency (shortage) and insulin deficiency leading to diabetes (a lifelong condition that causes a person's blood sugar level to become too high). Alcohol is considered the main cause of acute pancreatitis. Chronic abdominal pain is the major symptom of chronic pancreatitis. The pain is usually in the upper abdomen and is described as deep, penetrating, and radiating to the back. Various theories exist about the reason for pain in chronic pancreatitis. One of the theories is that the disease process obstructs the pancreatic duct. So, surgery to remove the head of the pancreas (the part that is encircled by the duodenum) is recommended for some people with pain uncontrolled with medicines. Major complications of surgery include deaths (mortality) and re‐operations. However, it is unclear whether the duodenum should be excised (surgically removed) along with the head of the pancreas. Thus, we searched for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) whose results were reported to 22 June 2015. 
Study characteristics 
Five trials including 292 participants met the inclusion criteria for the review. After exclusion of 23 participants due to various reasons, 269 participants (with symptomatic chronic pancreatitis involving the head of pancreas and undergoing surgery) received duodenum‐preserving pancreatic head resection (DPPHR) (head of pancreas is removed without removing the duodenum) (135 participants) or pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) (head of pancreas is removed along with the duodenum encircling it) (134 participants) in these trials. The trials did not report anaesthetic risk (likelihood of complications due to anaesthesia) of the participants. All the trials were single‐centre (occurred in only one clinical or medical centre). The participants were observed (followed up) for various periods of time ranging from one to 15 years. All the trials were at high risk of bias. 
