Interventions for the treatment of spinal cord compression due to the spread of cancer
Metastatic extradural spinal cord compression (MESCC) due to cancer from other parts of the body affecting the spine and causing compression of the spinal cord often results in pain, impaired functioning including reduced ability to walk, incontinence, and shortened survival. Radiation is the mainstay of treatment, but surgery, and corticosteroids are also used to treat people with MESCC. This update of a previous review published in 2008 evaluates the clinical trial evidence up to 3 March 2015 to determine how effective radiotherapy, surgery and corticosteroids are in improving functioning and survival, and in reducing pain; and how well tolerated they are in adults with MESCC. 
We found seven studies conducted in high‐income countries including 876 adults (aged 19 to 87 years) with MESCC. Follow‐up ranged from one month to three years, and the number evaluated in each varied from 29 to 303. Two studies compared different doses of radiation, two compared surgery before radiation versus radiation alone, and three small trials evaluated the effects of high‐dose corticosteroids versus moderate‐dose steroids or placebo. 
The key results are: 1. For different doses of radiation: one dose of radiation was as effective as two doses and two doses were as effective as eight doses of radiation in adults with spinal cord compression with stable spines who are expected to live for less than six months. Adults with a better prognosis may require the longer radiation course to prevent local cancer recurrence, but the immediate benefits of shorter courses might be important for people with MESCC who have only a short time to live. No serious adverse events were noted, and the incidence of diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting was low and no different with the different radiation doses. 2. For surgery before radiation: removing part of the vertebra to enlarge the spinal canal (laminectomy) before radiation offered no advantages over radiation alone. Direct decompressive surgery (directly accessing and removing affected parts of the vertebrae and, if required, fixing the spines using bone grafts and instruments) followed by radiation treatment was more effective than radiation alone in carefully selected adults younger than 65 years. Surgery plus radiation did not cause more harmful effects than radiation alone. 3. For high dose steroids: beneficial effects were not significantly different with high‐dose versus moderate‐dose steroids or placebo, but serious adverse effects were more frequent with high‐dose steroids. 
None of the studies reported on satisfaction with care or quality of life. We also did not find trials comparing different radiation doses in adults with MESCC with a good prognosis. We lacked full confidence in many results since they came from single trials or a few small trials. Also, in the study of decompressive surgery, some of the adults given radiation alone had cancers that were only moderately sensitive to radiation, and a third of patients in both intervention arms had unstable spines. In usual clinical practice, surgery, not radiation, is the preferred option in such instances. The overall GRADE quality of evidence was moderate for all outcomes for the comparisons of different radiation doses and for the adverse effects of high doses of corticosteroids, indicating reasonable confidence in the results, though future research could alter the estimates in this review and our confidence in the estimates. The GRADE quality of evidence was very low for all outcomes in the comparison of laminectomy, and low for the outcome of local tumour recurrence with different radiation doses, for all outcomes in the comparison with decompressive surgery, and for the efficacy outcomes in the comparison of high‐dose corticosteroids. This indicates less confidence in these results, and acknowledges that future research is likely to alter the estimates in this review. More studies are required to clarify these uncertainties and some are in progress. 
