Rivastigmine for people with Alzheimer's disease
Review question 
We reviewed evidence comparing the effectiveness and safety of rivastigmine with placebo in people with Alzheimer's disease.  Background 
Alzheimer's disease is the commonest cause of dementia affecting older people. As the disease progresses, people lose the ability to remember, communicate, think clearly and perform the usual daily activities. Their behaviour or personality may also change. In severe Alzheimer's disease, the patients lose the ability to care for themselves and require full time care. 
Currently, there is no cure available for Alzheimer's disease, but a few pharmacological interventions are available to alleviate symptoms. 
The symptoms are caused by the loss of a type of nerve cell in the brain called cholinergic neurons. Rivastigmine, an acetylcholinesterase inhibitor, works by increasing the levels of a brain chemical called acetylcholine which allows the nerve cells to communicate. This may improve the symptoms of dementia. Rivastigmine can be taken orally, either as capsules or a liquid, or by applying a patch on the skin. Its effectiveness in improving the symptoms of Alzheimer's disease and safety were evaluated in this review. 
Study characteristics 
This review included double‐blinded randomised controlled trials, and the evidence was searched for up to March 2015 using the standard Cochrane methods. The review included studies conducted for at least 12 weeks that compared the safety and effectiveness of rivastigmine compared with placebo. Thirteen studies that met these criteria were found. Most of these studies involved people with mild to moderate Alzheimer's disease with an average age of around 75 years. 
Key results 
Results from seven trials showed that patients on rivastigmine (6 to 12 mg/day by mouth, or 9.5 mg/day by skin patch) were better for three outcomes than those on placebo, after six months of treatment. The differences were quite small for cognitive function (2 points, using the ADAS‐Cog which has a range of 70 points) and activities of daily living (standardised mean difference (SMD) of 0.20, which is considered a small effect). Patients on rivastigmine were more likely to show overall improvement compared with those on placebo (odds ratio of 1.47, 95% confidence interval (CI) of 1.25 to 1.72) . However, there was no difference for behavioural changes (reported by three trials) or impact on carers (reported by one trial). Patients on rivastigmine were also about twice as likely to experience adverse events, although this risk might have been slightly less for patients using patches compared with capsules. It was possible that certain types of adverse events were less in people using patches than taking capsules (nausea, vomiting, weight loss, dizziness). 
In summary, rivastigmine may be of benefit to people with Alzheimer's disease. It is possible that the using a patch is associated with reduced side effects compared to using oral capsules. 
