Irinotecan chemotherapy combined with fluoropyrimidines versus irinotecan alone for overall survival and progression‐free survival in patients with advanced and/or metastatic colorectal cancer 
Background: 
Patients with inoperable colorectal cancer (CRC) are likely to receive chemotherapy drugs as their primary treatment. Irinotecan (IRI) and fluoropyrimidines are two such drugs widely used in this setting, either alone or as part of multi‐drug chemotherapy treatments. 
Objectives: 
Currently, there is lack of evidence comparing the combination of IRI and fluoropyrimidine with IRI alone. Therefore it was the aim of this review to compare the two treatments for patients with inoperable advanced or metastatic CRC. 
Investigation and study characteristics: 
We searched the literature on January 13, 2016. We identified five randomised controlled trials with a total of 1,726 patients comparing the combination of IRI and fluoropyrimidine with IRI alone. The search in January 2016 resulted in an additional ongoing trial, the results of which have not been incorporated in this review. This review compared IRI and fluoropyrimidine with IRI alone in terms of overall survival, progression‐free survival, toxicity, response rates and quality of life. 
Main results: 
There is no evidence to suggest any superiority of the combination of IRI and fluoropyrimidine over IRI alone, but our results on overall survival are limited by the number of studies available to date. Longer progression‐free survival was seen from adding fluoropyrimidines to IRI. Based on current evidence, both the combination regimens and IRI alone seem equally effective for treating advanced or metastatic patients. Patients in the intervention arm were less likely to develop grade 3 or 4 diarrhea and grade 1 or 2 alopecia, and more likely to have grade 3 or 4 neutropenia, compared to patients receiving IRI alone. 
Quality of the evidence: 
There was moderate quality evidence from these studies suggesting longer progression‐free survival from adding fluoropyrimidines to IRI. However, findings need to be confirmed by larger, high‐quality randomised clinical trials. 
