Interventions for primary (intrinsic) tracheomalacia in children
The term malacia is derived from the Greek word 'malakia', meaning soft. In tracheomalacia, the walls of trachea (or windpipe) are softer than normal, which can lead to partial collapse (falling in) of the windpipe. This collapse usually happens when more air is needed, such as during exercise. The word 'primary' refers to tracheomalacia in which the windpipe itself is the cause of the disease, where as secondary tracheomalacia is compressed due to some other abnormality near to the windpipe. The most common symptom of tracheomalacia is expiratory stridor (high‐pitched wheezing sound). If the symptoms are severe enough, treatment such as mechanical ventilation, tracheal stenting (mesh tube inserted into windpipe to hold it open) or surgery may be needed. 
We wanted to find out which out of these possible treatments was most effective. We found only one randomised controlled trial (RCT) that assessed nebulised recombinant human deoxyribonuclease (rhDNase) which helps in breaking down the mucous and has been shown to be useful in aiding airway clearance in cystic fibrosis compared to placebo (no active treatment) in children with both tracheomalacia and a concurrent respiratory infection. This trial showed no evidence of benefit in terms of the number of children who were cough‐free two weeks after treatment. Also, there was less coughing reported, both during the day and at night, in the group who did not receive the intervention ‐ however these differences were not statistically significant. 
With the lack of evidence, the routine use of any therapies for intrinsic tracheomalacia cannot be recommended given the cost of nebulised rhDNase and the likely harmful effect. The decision to subject a child to any surgical or medical based therapies will have to be made on an individual basis, with careful consideration of the risk‐benefit ratio for each individual situation. 
It is unlikely that any RCT on surgically based management will ever be available for children with severe life‐threatening illness associated with tracheomalacia. For those with less severe disease, RCTs on interventions such as antibiotics and chest physiotherapy are needed. 
