Antifungal medicines for treating children with ringworm
Background 
Tinea capitis, or ringworm, is a fungal infection of the scalp caused mainly by two species of fungi called Trichophyton and Microsporum. It is common in children. Most fungal infections can be treated with antifungal creams applied directly to the skin (topical treatments). However, because the fungal infection is found at the root of the hair follicles, where topical treatments cannot reach, tinea capitis always requires medication administered by mouth so that the treatment spreads throughout the entire body (systemic treatments). There are several different types of antifungal medicines available. 
Review question 
Which antifungal medicine is best for treating ringworm on the scalp in children?
Study characteristics 
In November 2015, we searched for studies that used the gold standard design for clinical trials (randomised controlled trials) of antifungal treatments taken by mouth. We found 25 studies in which 4449 children under 18 years (4 studies with 2637 children were new to this update) had taken part. 
Key results 
With respect to complete cure (both cure of the infection and visible cure (i.e. fungal and clinical cure) low to moderate quality evidence suggests that newer treatments such as terbinafine, itraconazole and fluconazole are at least as good as griseofulvin, the usual treatment in children with tinea capitis caused by Trichophyton infections. However, new evidence in this update suggests that terbinafine may have better effects than griseofulvin for completely curing children with T. tonsurans infection. By contrast, in children with Microsporum infections, new evidence seems to indicate that griseofulvin is more effective than terbinafine. 
Terbinafine, itraconazole and fluconazole appear to have similar effects in terms of the proportion of participants achieving complete cure, whereas ketoconazole appears to be less effective than griseofulvin for children with tinea capitis caused by Trichophyton species. However, the quality of this evidence is low. With some interventions, the proportion with complete clinical cure was in excess of 90% (e.g. one study of terbinafine versus griseofulvin for Trichophyton infections), but in many of the comparisons tested, the proportion cured was much lower. 
The included studies reported on negative side effects, which were similarly mild and reversible for terbinafine, griseofulvin, itraconazole, ketoconazole and fluconazole. They included skin‐specific effects such as itching as well as abdominal discomfort, headache and nausea. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence in this review was generally low to moderate, so further research is likely to have an important effect on our confidence in these results. Some evidence was even of very low quality. We still need more and better evidence to help us understand the effectiveness and adverse events of systemic antifungal drugs for tinea capitis in children. 
