Community first responders for out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest in adults and children
Review question 
To assess the effect of mobilizing community first responders to out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest events in adults and children older than four weeks of age, in terms of survival and neurological function. 
Background 
Out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest is a major cause of death. It occurs when a person's heart suddenly stops pumping blood around the body, and it is often caused by an abnormal heart rhythm. A person who suffers cardiac arrest will die within minutes unless this rhythm can be reversed. 
A safe, portable, and affordable device called a 'defibrillator' can be used to terminate ('defibrillate') the abnormal rhythm causing cardiac arrest, allowing the heart to restart. A defibrillator can be used by almost anyone, even without training. To be effective, a defibrillator must be used within minutes of a cardiac arrest. 
Cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) is a technique where a bystander can compress and release the chest of a person who has suffered cardiac arrest, thus artificially pumping blood throughout the body. CPR can keep a cardiac arrest victim alive until a defibrillator arrives, but again it is effective only if started very soon after cardiac arrest occurs. 
CPR and defibrillation are the most important interventions following cardiac arrest. Even the most advanced emergency medical systems in the world struggle to reach cardiac arrest victims in time to save life by providing CPR and defibrillation. 
To shorten the time from cardiac arrest to CPR and defibrillation, healthcare systems have started to mobilize community first responders to provide these treatments. Community first responders are fellow citizens who are present in the community and have received minimum basic training in CPR/defibrillator use. They are generally alerted to cardiac arrest by the emergency medical services. 
Study characteristics 
This review searched for high‐quality research studies that considered whether mobilizing community first responders could improve survival or neurological outcome, or both, following out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest in adults and children. We last searched available databases in January 2019. 
Key results 
We found two eligible research studies with a total of 1136 participants.
One study conducted in Stockholm, Sweden, and funded by the Swedish Heart‐Lung Foundation, Laerdal Foundation, and Stockholm County, found that mobilizing community first responders increased the rate of CPR performed before arrival of emergency medical services (data on 665 participants). The other study was conducted in Amsterdam and surrounding areas (the Netherlands) and was funded by the Netherlands Heart Foundation and Medtronic Physio‐Control. Study authors reported that when community first responders were mobilized, more patients received defibrillation before emergency medical services arrived and survived to be admitted to hospital (data on 469 participants). 
Neither study found that dispatching community first responders resulted in significantly more overall survivors (data on 612 participants in one study and on 469 participants in the other). Neither study reported on the neurological function of survivors or on their health‐related quality of life. 
