The review authors found moderate‐quality evidence from two trials with low risk of bias (where there was a low risk of a flaw in study design, method of collecting or interpreting results) randomising 578 patients suggesting that hepatic resection yielded better results regarding overall survival (the length of time that the patient remains alive), event‐free survival (time that the person remains free of cancer or a certain symptom relating to cancer), and progression (time that the patient lives with cancer without it getting worse) compared with RFA. However, as resection is a more invasive procedure, resection has an eight times higher risk of major complications compared with RFA. Resected patients stayed twice as long in the hospital as the RFA patients. Moderate‐quality evidence suggested that RFA prolongs survival and decreases recurrences (where the cancer returns) compared with PEI or PAI. This conclusion was based on data from six randomised clinical trials with 1088 participants. Some patients developed side effects such as fever, rash, and pain. These occurred at the same frequency in both treatment groups. We calculated the number of patients that would be required to judge a relative risk reduction (relative risk is a comparison of the risk of an event happening for one treatment group compared with another treatment group) for survival of 20%. The review authors found that for both comparisons, that is RFA versus PEI or PAI, and RFA versus resection, the number of patients in the included trials was too low to reach valid conclusions. No firm conclusion can be drawn from the comparison of RFA against other interventional techniques or combination approaches. The information provided by the single trials was limited. More randomised clinical trials with low risks of bias (that is low risks of systematic errors, leading to overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms) and low risk of play of chance (that is random errors, leading to overestimation or underestimation of benefits and harms) are required. 