Do blood thinners prevent blood clots in children who are treated using central lines?
Background 
Central lines are thin flexible tubes that are inserted into a person’s vein to provide medical care. They are used to deliver medicines, fluids or nutrients (to feed the patient) directly into the bloodstream. However, they can cause the blood to clot (form into a small lump). This prevents blood from flowing normally in the blood vessels. Blood clots can cause symptoms such as pain or swelling, but can also happen without any symptoms. They can lead to serious health problems and death, if they move and become stuck in major veins or in the lungs. 
Since the 1990s, blood clots in children in general have become more common, notably due to the rise in blood clots in children treated with central lines. We reviewed the existing research to find out if giving children a blood thinning medicine called low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) protects against blood clots. We also wanted to know whether LMWH increases the risk of minor or severe bleeding, death or other unwanted (adverse) side effects. 
What did we find? 
We searched the scientific literature in May 2019. We found two studies (one more than when we last searched in 2014). The studies compared what happens in children (aged up to 18 years old) treated using central lines who received LMWH and those who did not. A total of 1135 children were followed for between 30 and 64 days. During that time, the number of blood clots, bleeding episodes and deaths were recorded. One study also looked at the number of deaths five years after treatment. 
The two studies we found did not allow us to determine with certainty whether or not LMWH protects children with central lines from getting blood clots (with or without symptoms). 
The studies also did not allow us to determine whether children on LMWH were more likely to experience bleeding (minor or severe), or whether LMWH increases or reduces the risk of death. 
The two studies did not report any additional adverse effects caused by LMWH.
Certainty of the evidence 
We judged the certainty of the evidence to be low for blood clots, low for major bleeding, very low for minor bleeding, and low for mortality. The certainty of the evidence was low or very low because: 
⦁ there were differences in the way blood clots, bleeding and mortality were measured between studies; 
⦁ there were few studies and events; and
⦁ the researchers and children in the studies knew who was receiving LMWH and who was not, which can influence results. 
It is likely that future studies will have an important impact on our understanding of the role of LMWH to prevent blood clots and its side effects. 
Conclusion 
We need more studies on whether LMWH prevents blood clots in children who are treated using central venous lines. 
