Interventions for preventing weight gain after smoking cessation
What is the best way to avoid putting on weight after stopping smoking?  
Key messages 
We are not certain which programmes or treatments work best to help people avoid gaining weight in the long term (up to 12 months) when stopping smoking, or how they affect success in stopping smoking. This is because the evidence shows varied and unclear effects on weight gain. Further studies should continue to look at how to limit weight gain in people who are stopping smoking. Future studies of new medicines to help people stop smoking should also measure changes in their weight.  
 Stopping smoking and weight gain 
If you smoke, the best thing you can do for your health is to stop. But people often put on weight when they stop smoking, usually in the first few months of stopping. Gaining weight might undermine some of the benefits of stopping smoking, and might also affect  the motivation of some people  trying to stop smoking. 
 What did we want to find out?  
Some programmes to help people stop smoking specifically target weight control. Other ways to help people stop smoking might also affect their weight; these include: exercise programmes, taking medicines, and using nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). 
We wanted to find out the best ways to stop weight gain when stopping smoking. 
What did we do? 
In this update of a previously‐published review, we searched for studies that tested: 
‐ specific programmes for weight control while stopping smoking; 
‐ other ways to help people stop smoking, if those studies also measured weight change. 
We were interested in:
‐ how many people stopped smoking for six months or 12 months; 
‐ people's weight at the end of treatment, then after six months and after 12 months.   
What did we find? 
We found 116 studies in total: 
37 studies of specific programmes for weight control for people stopping smoking (21 new studies for this update); and 83 studies of other ways to help people stop smoking (27 new studies for this update). Four of these studies contributed to both. 
The 37 studies of specific programmes tested behavioural programmes, including dieting, to manage weight in 11,514 people trying to stop smoking. Some of the behavioural programmes were acceptance‐based, in which people also learn self‐regulation skills (for example, how to deal with cravings) to help them keep to the behaviours needed to lose weight. Most studies (27) were done in the USA and others took place in Australia, Canada, China and Europe.  
The 83 studies of other ways of stopping smoking included 46,248 people and looked at: 
exercise programmes; taking NRT; taking a medicine called varenicline (used to help people stop smoking); or taking a medicine called fluoxetine (used to treat depression).  
Of these studies, 39 were done in the USA and the rest took place in other countries around the world.  Very few studies reported on side effects. 
What are the main results of our review? 
Programmes aimed at limiting weight gain 
Compared with no programme or brief advice only, a personalized weight‐management programme may reduce weight gain at the end of treatment, after six months and after 12 months. However, a weight‐management programme without personalized assessment, planning and feedback may not reduce weight gain, and may reduce the number of people who stop smoking.  
Compared with no programme, acceptance‐based programmes for weight: 
may help more people to stop smoking after six months and 12 months; but may make little to no difference to their weight gain. 
Other programmes and treatments that might affect weight  
Taking part in an exercise programme to help stop smoking may reduce weight gain after 12 months, compared with not taking part in one. 
Using NRT probably reduces weight gain slightly after 12 months, compared with not using NRT.  
Taking varenicline makes little difference to weight gain at the end of treatment, and may make little difference after six months or after 12 months.  
Taking fluoxetine may reduce weight gain at the end of treatment, but we do not know how it affects weight gain after six months or 12 months.  
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We are certain that there is no difference in weight gain at the end of treatment with varenicline, and further studies are unlikely to change this result. However, our confidence in all of the other evidence is limited, mainly because of small numbers of studies that could be compared, and small numbers of people taking part in them. The results varied widely, and there were not enough studies for us to be sure of the results. Our confidence is likely to change if further evidence becomes available.    
How up to date is this evidence?  
The evidence is current up to October 2020. 
