Wrist PC6 acupuncture point stimulation to prevent nausea and vomiting after surgery
Review question 
Does a review of the evidence support the use of wrist PC6 acupuncture point stimulation (PC6 acupoint) as effective in reducing nausea and vomiting after surgery (PONV), compared to sham (dummy acupoint stimulation) or antiemetics (drugs that relieve nausea and vomiting) in people undergoing surgery? This review updates the evidence published in 2009, and is current to December 2014. 
Background 
Nausea and vomiting are two of the most common complications (up to 80%) after anaesthesia and surgery. Antiemetics are only partially effective and may cause adverse effects, like sedation and headache. Stimulating a PC6 acupoint, an alternative method, has been reported to reduce PONV with few serious side effects. 
Study characteristics 
We found 59 relevant studies, conducted between 1986 and 2015, involving 7667 participants undergoing elective surgery. Seven of the trials were conducted in 727 children. The PC6 acupoint stimulation varied from invasive techniques, such as traditional acupuncture needles, to noninvasive techniques, such as acupressure wristbands. PC6 acupoint stimulation was compared with six different types of antiemetic drugs (metoclopramide, cyclizine, prochlorperazine, droperidol. ondansetron and dexamethasone). 
Key findings and quality of evidence 
Effects of PC6 acupoint stimulation versus sham on PONV 
We found a moderate‐size effect in children and adults, although there were concerns about study limitations and unexplained variation in the effects. Further studies with sham comparisons are not necessary to confirm this beneficial effect. 
Effects of PC6 acupoint stimulation versus antiemetic on PONV 
We found no difference in the incidence of PONV. We rated the quality of this evidence as moderate, due to study limitations. Further studies are unlikely to show a difference. 
Effects of combining PC6 acupoint stimulation and antiemetic versus antiemetic on PONV 
We found a moderate‐size effect on postoperative vomiting but not on postoperative nausea. However, there were concerns about study limitations, unexplained variation in effects between studies, and an insufficient number of studies. Further high‐quality research on combinations of PC6 acupoint stimulation and antiemetics are needed to reduce uncertainties about this effect on PONV. 
