Peginterferon alpha‐2a versus peginterferon alpha‐2b for chronic hepatitis C
Importance of the review or background on the condition  
Hepatitis C is a disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus. Globally, an estimated 170 million people are chronically infected with hepatitis C virus. Chronic hepatitis C can cause liver damage in the form of inflammation and scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). Liver damage can lead to liver failure and other complications, including liver cancer. The aim of the treatment for chronic hepatitis C is to prevent complications of hepatitis C infection. This might be achieved by clearing the virus from the blood of the patient. However, we still need to understand if clearance of virus from blood has any association with patient‐relevant and clinically‐relevant outcomes. A combination of weekly injections of peginterferon alpha and daily oral ribavirin still represents the standard of care for the majority of patients with chronic hepatitis C. Currently, there are two licensed products of peginterferon, peginterferon alpha‐2a and peginterferon alpha‐2b, on the market. 
The main findings of the review  
The review identified 17 randomised clinical trials. The trials reported on patient‐relevant outcomes only occasionally. All trials had high risk of bias ie, a trial might systematically overestimate benefits or underestimate harms of the treatments). Both treatments were associated with a high risk of experiencing adverse events, which may lead to discontinuation of the treatment. Twelve trials reported on clearing the virus from blood six months after the end of treatment. A summary of the current evidence in this review suggests that peginterferon alpha‐2a has higher chances of clearing the virus from the patient's blood than peginterferon alpha‐2b (in 50% compared with 43%). 
Conclusions  
We were unable to identify any evidence on the benefits of one peginterferon over the other on patient‐important outcomes. 
Any limitations of the review  
There is lack of data regarding patient‐important outcomes on this topic.
