Fortification of maize flour with iron for preventing anaemia and iron deficiency
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to determine the effects of fortifying maize flour, corn meal and fortified‐maize flour products with iron for anaemia and iron status in the general population. We searched for relevant published studies to answer this question and analysed all relevant information. 
Key messages 
It is uncertain whether fortifying maize flour with iron and other vitamins and minerals reduces the risk of iron deficiency. The evidence is also too uncertain to conclude whether iron‐fortified maize flour, corn meal or fortified maize flour products have any effect on reducing the risk of anaemia or on improving haemoglobin concentration in the population. We do not know whether fortifying maize flour with iron reduces anaemia in the general population, as the evidence was very unreliable. No studies reported on any harmful effects. 
What was studied in the review? 
Approximately 496 million non‐pregnant women, 32 million pregnant women, and 273 million children were thought to be anaemic as of 2011. Iron deficiency is considered to be the single most prevalent nutrient deficiency worldwide, but at least half this burden is considered responsive to interventions that involve providing people with iron. Fortification means adding vitamins and minerals to foods to increase their nutritional value. In public health, fortifying staple foods is considered one way of reducing micronutrient deficiencies without changing usual and culturally acceptable diets. 
Maize (corn) is one of the world's most important cereal grains. In sub‐Saharan Africa, some parts of Southeast Asia and Latin America, where iron deficiency is endemic, maize is a dietary staple for more than 200 million people. Fortification of maize flour with iron (and in some cases, other nutrients) is mandatory in Brazil, Costa Rica, El Salvador, Kenya, Mexico, Nigeria, Rwanda, South Africa, Tanzania, Uganda, the USA and Venezuela. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found five relevant studies, but none looked at the effects of maize flour or maize flour products fortified with iron alone. Five studies compared the effects of maize flour or maize‐flour products fortified with iron plus other vitamins and minerals versus unfortified maize flours or maize‐flour products (not containing iron or any other vitamin and minerals). Three of these five studies randomly divided a collective total of 2302 children aged 2 to 12 years and 130 indigenous women into groups receiving fortified versus unfortified maize flour or corn flour. One study was from Kenya and the other two took place in Mexico. The remaining two studies did not provide data to assess the effects of fortification relative to a comparison group. Three of five of the included studies were funded by public organisations and two by funds granted by private sector to universities. The presence of industry funding for some of these trials did not appear to positively influence results from these studies. 
