Effect of drugs to treat intestinal worms from contaminated soil in pregnant women
What is the issue? 
Parasitic worm infections from contaminated soil include hookworm, roundworm, and whipworm. These intestinal worms (helminths) feed on blood and can contribute to iron‐deficiency anaemia in women of reproductive age. Parasitic worms also release substances that stop blood from clotting, so cause further bleeding. Affected women often experience anorexia, vomiting and diarrhoea, which reduces the supply of essential nutrients for producing blood cells. As a result, the health of pregnant women and their unborn babies can be affected. 
Antihelminthics are drugs that force parasitic worms out of the body, either by stunning or killing them, without causing damage to the host. Antihelminthics are highly effective against these worms, but evidence of their beneficial effect and safety when given during pregnancy is limited. 
Why is this important? 
Women in low‐ and middle‐income countries (LMICs) are especially likely to have worms that can lead to anaemia, since they may be pregnant or lactating for as much as half of their reproductive lives. Women who are anaemic during pregnancy are more likely to have ill health, give birth prematurely, and have low birthweight (LBW) babies with low iron reserves. A lack of iron can reduce the babies' mental abilities and development as well as their physical growth. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in March 2021 and identified six randomised controlled studies (in 24 reports) that included 7873 pregnant women. All of the included studies were conducted in antenatal clinics within hospitals in LMICs (Uganda, Nigeria, Peru, India, Sierra Leone and Tanzania). All except one of the included trials gave iron supplementation to the women participating in the studies, as well as the antihelminthic drugs. 
Evidence from five trials (5745 women) suggests that deworming using a single dose of antihelminthics in the second trimester of pregnancy may reduce maternal anaemia (low‐certainty evidence). We are uncertain about the effects on preterm birth (1042 women in 1 study) or perinatal mortality (3356 women in 3 studies), with low‐certainty evidence for both outcomes. Antihelminthics probably make little or no difference to LBW babies (3301 women in 4 studies) or birthweight (3301 women in 4 studies), with moderate‐certainty evidence for both outcomes. The number of women with worms was reduced (2488 women in 2 studies; low‐certainty evidence). 
What does this mean? 
Antihelminthic drugs given during the second trimester of pregnancy may reduce maternal anaemia and the number of women with worms, but with no impact on other maternal or pregnancy outcomes. Further research is needed among particular groups of women and on the effectiveness of additional interventions with antihelminthics, including health education. 
