Vitamin and mineral supplementation for preventing dementia or delaying cognitive decline in people with mild cognitive impairment 
Review question 
This review investigated whether people with mild cognitive impairment can reduce their risk of developing dementia, or can prevent their memory or other thinking skills from deteriorating further, by taking vitamin or mineral supplements. 
Background 
Slight changes in memory and thinking skills are common as people get older. When these changes are worse than can be expected in normal ageing, but are not bad enough to make a person's usual activities difficult to manage, then the person is said to have mild cognitive impairment (MCI). People with MCI are at increased risk of developing dementia in the future. 
Vitamins and minerals are naturally occurring substances which are needed in the diet to maintain health. They have lots of different functions in the body and many are essential to keep the brain working properly. It has been suggested that supplementing a person's normal diet with extra doses of these vitamins or minerals might help to maintain thinking skills or prevent dementia. 
Study characteristics 
We found eight randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which investigated four different types of vitamin or mineral pills by comparing them to a placebo (a dummy pill). The vitamins tested were B vitamins (vitamin B6, vitamin B12 and folic acid), vitamin E, and vitamin E and C given together. The only mineral tested was chromium. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Vitamin B combination versus placebo 
Five trials with a total of 879 participants compared B vitamins with placebo. Four used combinations of vitamin B6, vitamin B12, and folic acid; one small study tested folic acid on its own. None of these studies reported whether or not participants developed dementia. These studies did not find that memory or thinking skills differed between the group of people who took vitamin B supplements and those who took placebo after treatment lasting six months to two years. Our confidence in the results on different tests used in the studies varied from moderate to very low. Two years of vitamin B supplements did seem to help memory in a small subgroup of participants in one study who could be identified by a particular blood test at the start of the trial. One study found that there was probably no effect on participants' quality of life. One study scanned the brains of some participants and reported that B vitamins may slow the rate of brain shrinkage. 
Harmful effects and deaths were reported in very few participants and we cannot conclude whether or not there are harms from taking these or similar combinations of B vitamins. 
Vitamin E versus placebo. 
One study with 516 participants compared a relatively high dose of vitamin E (2000 IU a day) to placebo in people who were also taking a multivitamin containing 15 IU of vitamin E (the daily requirement for vitamin E is approximately 30 IU). The risk of developing dementia due to Alzheimer’s disease (the commonest form of dementia) is probably not affected by three years of treatment with high‐dose vitamin E. The quality of the evidence for other outcomes was lower, but there may also be no effect of this dose of vitamin E on specific memory or thinking skills or on how well people could manage their daily activities. 
Vitamin E and C versus placebo 
One study with 256 participants compared a combination of vitamins C and E with placebo. It found no effect on overall memory and thinking skills, but we had little confidence in this result because of the quality of the evidence. 
