End‐of‐life care pathways for the dying
Background 
End‐of‐life care pathways are used for people who are in the last days of their life, to guide effective care and aid decision making. Due to substantial concerns regarding safety and quality of care associated with the pathway implementation, the most used end‐of‐life care pathway (Liverpool Care Pathway) is no longer used in the United Kingdom (UK). This review examined whether using end‐of‐life care pathways in caring for the dying was effective. 
Study characteristics 
In July 2015, we searched scientific databases for clinical trials in which the effect of the end‐of‐life care pathway was compared with a control group that received usual care, or with trials comparing one end‐of‐life care pathway with another end‐of‐life care pathway. Participants were patients, carers and families who received care guided by an end‐of‐life care pathway. There were no restrictions on age of the patient, diagnosis or setting (hospital, home, nursing home). 
Key results 
In the current review we found one Italian study, in which information about 232 patients who were dying was provided by their informal carers (friends or family). Only 34% of the participants were cared for in accordance with the pathway. Breathlessness was better controlled for patients on the Liverpool Care Pathway compared to patients not on the pathway, but this is based on evidence from one small trial. The study did not report on important outcomes such as the severity of other physical or psychological symptoms or quality of life, or if there were any side effects associated with using the end‐of‐life care pathway. Nor were there questions about satisfaction with care, costs of the intervention, or quality of communication between carers and healthcare providers. 
Quality of evidence 
We judged the included study to be of very low quality due to potential biases, including: not being able to prevent participants from knowing which group they were in (usual care or the care pathway group); the large number of carers who were initially enrolled, but who did not respond to follow‐up questionnaires (this was particularly true for carers of patients in the wards where the care pathway was not used (control wards)); the low proportion of patients who actually received the care pathway (intervention) as planned; and that the study only included cancer patients in Italian hospitals; therefore, results might not apply to patients with other diseases. 
