Surgical removal of the tonsils (tonsillectomy) with coblation or another surgical method 
Review question 
This review compared the coblation method with other methods of tonsil removal to assess recovery following tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy. 
Background 
Surgical removal of the tonsils (tonsillectomy) is a very common operation. Patients may have pain for up to two weeks after surgery. Bleeding may occur either immediately after surgery ('primary bleeding' within 24 hours of surgery) or later ('secondary bleeding' more than 24 hours after surgery). There are many methods of tonsillectomy; the traditional method is with metal surgical instruments. Coblation is a new method where the surgeon uses an electrically powered handpiece that 'burns' tissues using low temperatures. 
Study characteristics 
This review included evidence available up to April 2017. We included 29 studies, with a total of 2561 participants. All studies had a moderate or high risk of bias. Seven studies included adults, 16 studies included children and six included both adults and children. 
Most studies measured pain using a patient‐reported scale (for example, asking people to rate their pain on a scale of 1 to 10). 
Key results 
The coblation technique may cause slightly less pain one day after surgery and three days after surgery, but it is unlikely that there is a difference in pain seven days after surgery. We are very uncertain whether the amount of pain reduction observed in days 1 to 3 after surgery would be important to patients. 
There is little or no difference in the risk of bleeding in the first day after surgery, but there may be a small increased risk of bleeding with coblation after the first day. For every 1000 patients having a tonsillectomy, 50 patients would have a bleed with coblation, compared to 36 with traditional surgical techniques. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence for the difference in pain is of low or very low quality and for the difference in bleeding after surgery it is of low quality. This means that we have little confidence in the results; the true effect may be very different ‐ we simply do not know at this stage. 
