Patch angioplasty versus primary closure for carotid endarterectomy
Key messagesEleven trials involving 2100 people now suggest a possible benefit from using a special procedure (patch angioplasty) following carotid endarterectomy. 
What is carotid endarterectomy?About 20% of strokes result from narrowing of the carotid artery (the main artery supplying blood to the brain). A narrowed carotid artery can be treated with a surgical procedure called carotid endarterectomy, which involves cutting the artery open and removing fatty substances called plaques. This widens the artery and so reduces the risk of stroke. However, there is a small possibility that the operation itself can cause a stroke. 
What is primary closure, and what is patch angioplasty?After removing the plaques from the artery, the surgeon can simply bring the two edges of the hole together and sew it closed (primary closure), or can close the hole with a patch, sewing the edges of the hole to the edges of the patch to widen the artery further (patch angioplasty). This patch can be made of synthetic material or can be a piece of the patient's own vein. 
What did we want to find out?We wanted to find out if people who have people patch angioplasty after carotid endarterectomy – compared with those who have primary closure – have less chance of having a stroke or dying in the short or long term after the operation, or have less chance of their artery narrowing again, without suffering many more complications around the time of the operation. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that compared patch angioplasty and primary closure in people who had carotid endarterectomy. We compared and summarised the results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and study size. 
What did we find?We found 11 studies involving 2100 participants undergoing 2304 carotid endarterectomy operations. The studies were conducted all around the world.  
Main resultsPatch angioplasty lowered the risk of stroke in the short and long term after surgery compared with primary closure. Patch angioplasty may reduce the risk of the artery becoming blocked and the risk of the patient having a stroke or dying in the long term. 
Main limitations of the evidenceSome studies monitored participants for up to five years, while others stopped monitoring participants after they left hospital. This makes us uncertain about the evidence. 
How up to date is this evidence?The evidence is current to September 2021. 
