Indoor bathing in salt water followed by exposure to artificial ultraviolet B light for chronic plaque psoriasis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of indoor bathing in salt water for adults with chronic plaque psoriasis followed by artificial ultraviolet B (UVB) light treatment. We evaluated two different comparisons: 1) Salt bath with UVB versus other treatment without UVB; eligible comparators were exposure to psoralen bath, psoralen bath + artificial ultraviolet A (UVA) light, topical treatment, systemic treatment (oral or injected medicines that work throughout the entire body), or placebo (an inactive substance). 2) Salt bath with UVB versus other treatment with UVB or UVB only; eligible comparators were exposure to bath containing other compositions or concentrations + UVB or UVB only. The degree of severity of psoriasis can be measured by the psoriasis area and severity index (PASI). Improvement can be indicated by a reduction of PASI. We requested at least a 75% reduction in PASI‐75 score to evaluate a potential beneficial effect. To evaluate a potential harmful effect, we chose treatment‐related side effects severe enough to stop treatment. 
Background 
Chronic plaque psoriasis is a skin disease characterised by red‐coloured lesions with silvery scales. Bathing in the Dead Sea and exposure to the sun may improve the lesions but may not be practical for most patients. Artificial salt bath and exposure to UVB could simulate the natural exposure. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to June 2019. We included eight trials (1976 analysed participants). One included trial assessed salt bath plus UVB versus other treatment without UVB (psoralen bath + UVA), but it did not report our primary outcomes for this comparison. Eight trials assessed our second comparison of interest: salt bath with UVB versus other treatment with UVB or UVB only, and those that reported any outcomes of interest (only five studies) specifically compared salt bath with UVB versus UVB only. 
No study reported our secondary outcomes. The duration of trials in total ranged between at least two months and up to 13 months. Outcomes were assessed at the end of treatment. 
