Oxygen therapy as part of the treatment for respiratory infections in children
Review question  We reviewed the evidence about the beneficial effect of oxygen supplementation therapy as part of the treatment for children with acute lower respiratory tract infection (LRTI). As oxygen may be administered using different delivery methods, we reviewed the most commonly used methods to deliver oxygen in children. As a secondary question, we reviewed the evidence regarding which signs or symptoms could indicate the need for oxygen therapy in children presenting with acute LRTI. 
Background  Acute LRTI is the most frequent cause for hospitalisation out of all respiratory infections and one of the leading causes of morbidity and mortality in children aged under five in low‐income countries. Oxygen therapy plays an important part in treating severe LRTIs but we need to determine its effectiveness at preventing children from developing more severe disease. Oxygen can be delivered by non‐invasive methods (nasal prongs, nasal cannula, nasopharyngeal catheter, face mask and head box) and we wanted to discover how effective these methods are as they have not been adequately evaluated. 
Studies characteristics  For our primary question we included experimental studies assessing the use of oxygen versus no oxygen and studies comparing oxygen delivery systems in children aged from one to five years with acute LRTI. We identified one pilot study (58 children) assessing oxygen therapy in children with pneumonia and four studies (479 participants) assessing the effectiveness of different non‐invasive oxygen delivery systems. 
For our secondary question, we included 14 observational studies conducted to determine the clinical indicators of hypoxaemia in children with acute LRTIs. 
Key results  It appears that oxygen therapy given early in the course of pneumonia via nasal prongs at a flow rate of 1 to 2 L/min does not prevent children with severe pneumonia from developing hypoxaemia. However, the applicability of this evidence is limited as it comes from a small pilot trial. Clinicians caring for children must make their decision to use supplemental oxygen on an individual basis. 
Nasal prongs and nasopharyngeal catheter are similar in effectiveness when used for children with acute LRTI. Nasal prongs are associated with less nasal obstruction. The use of a face mask and head box has been poorly studied and appears not to be superior to nasopharyngeal catheter in terms of effectiveness or safety when used in children with acute LRTI. 
There is no single clinical sign or symptom that accurately identifies hypoxaemia in children with acute LRTI. However, the summary of results presented here can help clinicians to identify children with more severe conditions. 
Studies assessing the effectiveness of oxygen therapy in children with different baseline risks are needed, as well as studies that aim to identify the most effective and safe oxygen delivery method. 
Our evidence is current to October 2014.
