High‐dose chemotherapy (HDC) and autologous haematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT) for children, adolescents, and young adults with a first recurrence of Ewing sarcoma 
Review question 
We were looking for evidence on whether HDC plus AHCT improved event‐free survival, overall survival, quality‐adjusted survival, and progression‐free survival better than conventional chemotherapy in children, adolescents, and young adults with their first recurrence of Ewing sarcoma. We were also looking for adverse effects that occurred because of these treatments. 
Background 
Ewing sarcoma is a tumour that occurs in the bone and soft tissue, especially in the long bones and pelvis, and mainly in children, adolescents and young adults. Since the introduction of chemotherapy following surgery, with or without radiation, the outcome of people with Ewing sarcoma has improved. However, even with improved chemotherapy, there are still too many people who eventually die of the disease, because it has progressed or come back. People with a first recurrence of Ewing sarcoma do not have a great prognosis: fewer than 3 out of 10 young people  are still alive at 24 months, and fewer than 1 out of 10 are alive at 48 months. Improved therapy is essential for these people. High‐dose chemotherapy (HDC), followed by autologous haematopoietic cell transplantation (AHCT; intravenous infusion of earlier collected stem cells to re‐establish bone marrow ), is successfully used for young people with a variety of tumours. Theoretically, this seems to be a good option to treat the small number of remaining cancer cells, and to improve the survival rate after the first recurrence of Ewing sarcoma. 
Key results 
We conducted an extensive search of the medical literature, including related conference proceedings, and registers for ongoing trials, but we did not find any relevant studies. Therefore, we are unable to draw any conclusions as to whether HDC with AHCT improves event‐free survival, overall survival, quality‐adjusted survival, or progression‐free survival better than conventional chemotherapy, or if it causes any side effects, in children, adolescents, and young adults with their first recurrence of Ewing sarcoma. Our results show that further research is needed. 
How current is the evidence 
The evidence is current to January 2020.
