Surgery for women with pelvic organ prolapse with or without continence procedures
Review question 
To assess the outcomes of operations for pelvic organ prolapse (POP) with or without operations to treat or prevent stress urinary incontinence (SUI).  Background 
Pelvic organ prolapse is a common condition, especially among women who have given birth and who are postmenopausal. It involves the descent of pelvic organs such as the womb (uterus), bladder, bowel, and vagina within and outside of the vaginal opening. It is often associated with urinary leakage on coughing or physical exertion as in sports (termed 'stress urinary incontinence'). However, in some women, the prolapse prevents leakage from the urethra and stress urinary incontinence might be present only with re‐placement of the prolapsed organs in the vagina during vaginal examination (termed 'occult SUI'). Stress urinary incontinence may also develop only after surgical treatment of prolapse (termed 'de novo SUI'). To date, the best treatment for women undergoing surgery for symptomatic pelvic organ prolapse with and without incontinence conditions is not known. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane review authors searched different registers for relevant studies and collected, summarised, and analysed appropriate data to help identify the optimal treatment. Data are current to December 2017. 
Key results 
Reviewers included 19 randomised controlled trials in this review (2717 women), including surgical operations for POP with or without continence procedures in continent or incontinent women. Our primary outcome was subjective postoperative SUI. Secondary outcomes included recurrent POP on examination, overactive bladder (OAB) symptoms, voiding dysfunction, and need for further surgery. 
Surgery to treat women with POP and stress urinary incontinence 
In two studies of moderate quality, women with stress incontinence benefited from an additional continence procedure (mid‐urethral sling) at the time of vaginal prolapse repair for the outcome of postoperative SUI. The continence procedure might also be postponed for three months after prolapse surgery with similar success rates. In this situation, some women might avoid an additional continence operation. 
It remains unclear whether abdominal prolapse repair (sacrocolpopexy or sacrohysteropexy) with an additional abdominal continence procedure (Burch colposuspension) improves urinary leakage after surgery. 
Surgery to treat women with POP and occult stress urinary incontinence 
Five moderate‐quality studies of women with prolapse and observed urinary leakage during vaginal examination with a reduced prolapse reported benefit from an additional continence procedure (mid‐urethral sling) when undergoing vaginal prolapse surgery. 
Surgery to treat continent women with POP 
Evidence from one moderate‐quality study was inconclusive as to any benefit of an additional continence procedure (mid‐urethral sling) when women underwent vaginal prolapse surgery. 
Whether abdominal prolapse repair (sacrocolpopexy) with an additional abdominal continence procedure (Burch colposuspension) improves urinary leakage after surgery remains unclear, as two low‐quality studies reported conflicting results. 
Seven low‐quality studies reported that fewer women had urinary leakage after vaginal native tissue repair compared to women who received a vaginal mesh implant for prolapse. However, vaginal mesh placement reduced the chance of recurrent prolapse. 
