How accurate are asking about symptoms and doing a chest X‐ray to screen for tuberculosis of the lungs among adults who are HIV‐negative or with unknown HIV status? 
Why is improving screening for tuberculosis of the lungs important? 
Systematic screening in settings where tuberculosis is common is a recommended strategy for early detection of tuberculosis. Screening helps identify people who are more likely to have tuberculosis so they can have confirmatory testing. These are additional tests to confirm the presence of Mycobacterium tuberculosis, the bacterium that causes tuberculosis. Asking about tuberculosis symptoms (for example, cough, coughing up blood, fever, and fatigue) and doing a chest X‐ray (CXR), which shows lung abnormalities, are commonly used screening methods. Tuberculosis is treatable with antibiotics, which means that early detection may result in lower mortality and morbidity, less transmission of tuberculosis, and more equitable access to care. 
Not recognizing lung tuberculosis when it is present (a false‐negative result) may result in delayed treatment and further transmission. Conversely, a screening result that is thought to be positive while it is not may result in unnecessary confirmatory tests, which burdens both the individual and the public health system. 
Knowing how often screening tests lead to false‐positive and false‐negative results – this is called accuracy ‐ may help in choosing a screening method. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out how accurate asking about symptoms and CXR are as screening tests for lung tuberculosis in adults with unknown or negative HIV status. 
What was studied in the review? 
We studied the accuracy of three types of symptom questions: (i) cough for two or more weeks, (ii) cough of any duration, and (iii) any tuberculosis symptom. For CXR, we studied two definitions for a positive result: (i) any CXR lung abnormality and (ii) CXR lung abnormalities suggestive of tuberculosis. The results are interpreted by staff trained in radiology. 
What are the main results in this review? 
The review included 59 studies, of which 48 reported on one or more symptom screening questions and 37 reported on CXR. 
The results below indicate a situation in which five individuals (0.5%) have lung tuberculosis among a group of 1000 screened individuals. 
Cough for two weeks or more: if 1000 individuals were screened, 58 would screen positive, meaning they report cough for two weeks or more and, of these, 56 (97%) would not have lung tuberculosis. Of 1000 individuals, 942 would screen negative, meaning they do not report cough for two weeks or more and, of these, three (0.3%) would have lung tuberculosis. 
Cough of any duration: of 1000 individuals, 127 would screen positive and, of these, 124 (98%) would not have lung tuberculosis. Of 1000 individuals, 873 would screen negative and, of these, two (0.2%) would have lung tuberculosis. 
Any tuberculosis symptom: of 1000 individuals, 351 would screen positive and, of these, 348 (99%) would not have lung tuberculosis. Of 1000 individuals, 649 would screen negative and, of these, one (0.2%) would have lung tuberculosis. 
Any CXR lung abnormality: of 1000 individuals, 113 would show lung abnormalities on CXR and, of these, 108 (96%) would not have lung tuberculosis. Of 1000 individuals, 887 would not show lung abnormalities and, of these, no one (0%) would have lung tuberculosis. 
CXR lung abnormalities suggestive of tuberculosis: of 1000 individuals, 48 would screen positive and, of these, 44 (92%) would not have lung tuberculosis. Of 1000 individuals, 952 would screen negative and, of these, one (0.1%) would have lung tuberculosis. 
