Interventions for minimal change disease in adults with nephrotic syndrome
What is the issue? 
Nephrotic syndrome is a condition where the kidneys leak protein from the blood into the urine. Minimal change disease defined on kidney biopsy is the third most common primary kidney disease in adults with unexplained nephrotic syndrome (10% to 15%). The most effective treatment regimens have not been determined. 
What did we do? 
We identified all randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which investigated the treatment of adults with nephrotic syndrome due to minimal change disease. We searched for RCTs evaluating steroid therapy and those evaluating other agents with/without steroid therapy. 
What did we find? 
We found 15 studies randomising 769 participants, whose results could be evaluated. Calcineurin inhibitors (tacrolimus, cyclosporin) with/without low‐dose prednisolone were as effective as prednisolone alone in achieving remission with no differences in the numbers who were resistant or who relapsed (eight studies) but with reduced side effects of obesity and acne. Enteric‐coated mycophenolate sodium was as effective as prednisolone alone in achieving remission with no differences found in side effects. We found that it was unclear whether prednisolone compared to no treatment or intravenous methylprednisolone influences the number of participants with remission or subsequent relapse because the certainty of the evidence was very low. In a single small study, no differences in the number with remission or relapse were identified with levamisole compared with prednisolone. We did not find any completed studies evaluating rituximab but two studies are in progress. 
Conclusions 
We found that data included in this updated review indicate that calcineurin inhibitors and enteric‐coated mycophenolate sodium may be effective in achieving remission in adults with nephrotic syndrome due to MCD with some reduction in the side effects of high dose prednisolone therapy. Studies of these therapies in relapsing disease and in MCD resistant to prednisolone therapy are required. 
