Topical or systemic antifungal therapy for chronic rhinosinusitis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the benefits and harms of antifungal treatment in patients with chronic rhinosinusitis including those with allergic fungal rhinosinusitis (AFRS). 
Background 
Chronic rhinosinusitis is a common condition characterised by inflammation of the nose and paranasal sinuses (a group of air‐filled spaces behind the nose, eyes and cheeks). Patients with chronic rhinosinusitis have at least two of the following symptoms for at least 12 weeks: either a blocked nose and/or discharge from their nose (runny nose) and one of either pain/pressure in their face or a reduced sense of smell (hyposmia). Some people also have nasal polyps, which are grape‐like swellings of the normal nasal lining inside the nasal passage and sinuses. Some people with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps are allergic to airborne fungus and this can cause a specific type of condition called allergic fungal rhinosinusitis (AFRS). 
Fungal spores are commonly found in the nose as they are in the air we breathe. It is not clear if fungus plays a role in all cases of chronic rhinosinusitis but there is evidence that it may have a role in a subset of patients. Antifungal treatments work to kill fungal spores or to stop them growing. Antifungal treatments for chronic rhinosinusitis are used either topically (put into the nose) or taken systemically (by mouth). 
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies (490 adult participants). Seven studies (437 participants) investigated topical antifungals (nasal sprays or irrigations) and one study (53 participants) investigated systemic antifungals (tablets). All studies compared antifungals to placebo or no treatment. Most studies were well conducted and there was a mix of patients with chronic rhinosinusitis both with, and without, nasal polyps. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
At the end of at least four weeks treatment, none of the studies found that patients using antifungals (topical or systemic) had a better quality of life or less severe symptoms than patients who used placebo or had no treatment. 
