Effects of opioid, hypnotic and sedating medications on obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) in adults with known OSA 
Background 
Obstructive sleep apnoea (OSA) is a common sleep disorder characterised by intermittent apnoeas (pauses in breathing) leading to dips in oxygen levels in the blood during sleep. Many people with known or unknown (undiagnosed) OSA receive hypnotics, sedatives and opiate/opioid drugs to treat other conditions including pain, anxiety and difficulty sleeping. Opiates/opioids are commonly prescribed to treat pain after major surgery. These drugs might make sleep apnoea worse ‐ increasing the frequency and duration of apnoeas. 
Review question 
We set out to look at evidence derived from randomised placebo‐controlled trials to identify the risks of these drugs for patients with known OSA. 
What we did 
We searched and reviewed all randomised placebo‐controlled trials involving adult patients with known OSA who received these drugs. Most of the trials were short at just one or two nights' duration, involved only a small number of patients and used poorly described methodology. Therefore it was difficult to find out the exact effects of these drugs on patients with OSA. 
Results 
We found 14 studies examining the effects of 10 drugs in trials including 293 people.
Opiates and opioids (treatment of acute and chronic pain)  
Remifentanil infusion 
Remifentanil infusion did not significantly change severity of OSA as measured by numbers and duration of pauses in breathing during sleep, but it significantly lowered minimum oxygen levels during the night when compared with placebo. 
Sedatives and hypnotics  
'Z drugs' (a treatment for insomnia, inability to fall asleep or inability to maintain sleep)  
Eszopiclone and zolpidem 
Eszopiclone did not worsen OSA as measured by the numbers and duration of pauses in breathing during sleep. In one study, it reduced the severity of OSA, and it might be beneficial in treating this condition, although further studies are needed to assess this effect. 
Zolpidem did not significantly worsen OSA as measured by the numbers and duration of pauses in breathing during sleep, but in one trial, it significantly lowered minimum oxygen levels during the night when compared with placebo. 
