Continuing education meetings and workshops: effects on healthcare professionals’ practice and on patients’ health 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess the effects of educational meetings on healthcare professionals’ practice and on patients’ health. Review authors searched for all relevant studies to answer this question and included 215 studies in the review. 
Key messages 
Educational meetings alone or as the main part of a larger strategy are probably better than no strategy for improving healthcare professionals’ practice and patients' health. They also may be better than other types of behaviour change strategies for improving healthcare professionals’ practice. But we do not know if some types of educational meetings are better than others. 
What was studied in the review? 
Educational meetings include courses, seminars, and workshops in various formats. Doctors and other healthcare professionals often use educational meetings as part of their continuing medical education. Medical societies and employers in the healthcare system also use educational meetings to present new knowledge or new types of care and to encourage best practice. These types of meetings can vary a lot. For instance, some may be very interactive, and other may be lecture‐based. Types of people leading the meetings and numbers of people who attend also vary. 
But do these types of meetings lead to change? The review authors assessed whether healthcare professionals who went to educational meetings were more likely to follow practices recommended to them. In addition, review authors assessed whether these meetings led to any improvements in patients’ health. 
This review is an update of an earlier Cochrane Review.
What are the main results of the review? 
Review authors included 215 relevant studies involving more than 28,000 healthcare professionals. 
Most of the studies were from North America or Europe, although many other countries were also represented. Most studies took place in primary care or community‐based care settings such as nursing homes, but many took place in hospitals and other secondary care settings. Most of the healthcare professionals in these studies were doctors, but the studies looked at other groups, including nurses, pharmacists, physiotherapists, and dentists. This review shows the following. 
• Educational meetings alone or as the main part of a larger package, compared with no meetings 
‐ Healthcare professionals are probably more likely to follow recommended practices (moderate‐certainty evidence) 
‐ This probably slightly improves patient health (moderate‐certainty evidence)
• Educational meetings alone compared with other strategies to change healthcare professionals’ behaviour 
‐ Healthcare professionals may be more likely to follow recommended practices (low‐certainty evidence) 
‐ We do not know about effects on patient health because we found no relevant studies
• Interactive educational meetings compared with lecture‐based educational meetings 
‐ We do not know about effects on healthcare professionals’ practice or on patients’ health because the certainty of evidence is very low 
• Any other comparison of different types of educational meetings 
‐ We do not know about effects on healthcare professionals’ practice or on patients’ health because the certainty of evidence is very low 
