Mechanically assisted walking training for children with cerebral palsy
Background 
Children with cerebral palsy have difficulty walking independently. It is thought that they might benefit from mechanically assisted walking training compared with no walking or overground walking (i.e. without mechanical support). Mechanically assisted walking training includes using motorized devices such as a treadmill, a gait trainer (a wheeled walking aid), or a robotic training device (such as a robotic knee brace) to help children with cerebral palsy to walk further. This training can be provided either with or without body weight support (such as a harness, a handrail, or manual physical support). 
Review question 
What is the effect of mechanically assisted walking compared to no walking or to the same amount of overground walking on walking, participation, and quality of life in children with cerebral palsy 3 to 18 years of age. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes 17 studies involving a total of 451 children with a mean age range between 4 and 14 years. All children had cerebral palsy. We found four studies comparing mechanically assisted walking without body weight support to no walking; two studies comparing mechanically assisted walking without body weight support to the same amount of overground walking; eight studies comparing mechanically assisted walking plus body weight support to no walking; and three studies comparing mechanically assisted walking with body weight support to the same amount of overground walking. Mechanically assisted training was provided for 15 to 40 minutes a session, two to five times a week, for 4 to 12 weeks. Five studies were funded by a grant, and one study was funded by two different grants. Eight studies did not report funding information, and three studies received no funding support. 
The evidence is current to January 2020.
Key results 
Mechanically assisted walking without body weight support 
1. Compared with no walking, there was a small benefit in terms of walking speed and gross motor function (skills needed to control the large muscles of the body used in walking). In one study, there was no difference between groups in terms of adverse events (undesirable outcomes). 
2. Compared with the same amount of overground walking, there was a small benefit in terms of walking speed, gross motor function, and participation. No study reported adverse event rates. 
Mechanically assisted walking with body weight support 
1. Compared with no walking, there was a small benefit in terms of walking speed but no clear difference in terms of gross motor function, participation, or adverse events. 
2. Compared with the same amount of overground walking, there was no benefit in terms of walking speed, gross motor function, or participation. No study reported adverse events. 
