Laparoscopic entry techniques
Review question 
Cochrane review authors evaluated the benefits and risks of different laparoscopic entry techniques in gynaecological and non‐gynaecological surgery. 
Background 
Laparoscopy is a procedure that uses a laparoscope ‐ a thin tube with a light and a camera on the end, similar to a telescope ‐ that is inserted under general anaesthesia through a small cut or incision (0.5 cm to 1 cm) into, or near, the navel. The camera can project images onto external screens, which allow surgeons to directly visualise the pelvic and abdominal organs. This permits performance of keyhole surgery, which uses much smaller surgical tools without the need for large incisions. When laparoscopy is performed, gas is gently pumped into the abdomen to increase the workspace for the camera and tools. The method by which incisions are made to introduce the laparoscope may influence the likelihood of complications. 
Although laparoscopy is usually safe, a small minority of patients experience life‐threatening complications, including injury to surrounding blood vessels or the bowel. These complications often occur at the first step of the procedure, when the abdominal wall is pierced with specialised instruments to insert the gas. Different doctors use different specialised instruments and techniques. 
Study characteristics 
Systematic review authors included 57 randomised controlled trials with a total of 9865 individuals undergoing laparoscopy. The RCTs compared 25 different laparoscopic entry techniques. Patients included in the review were men, women, and children who required laparoscopic surgery for a range of gynaecological and non‐gynaecological conditions. Most of these studies included low‐risk patients, and many studies excluded patients with high body mass index (BMI) and previous abdominal surgery. Fifty‐three of 57 studies did not mention sources of funding. Two studies received funding from industry through a grant or through free use of medical equipment during trials. Two studies received government funding. The evidence is current to January 2018. 
Key results 
Evidence is insufficient to show whether there were differences between groups in the rate of failed entry, vascular injury, or visceral injury, or in other major complications with the use of an open‐entry technique in comparison to a closed‐entry technique. 
Comparison of closed techniques revealed a reduction in the risk of failed entry with use of a direct trocar entry technique in comparison to a Veress needle entry technique (8 RCTs; 3185 participants; moderate‐quality evidence). Here the evidence suggests that for every 1000 patients operated on, 65 patients in the Veress needle group will experience failed entry compared to between 11 and 22 patients in the direct trocar group (i.e. between 43 and 54 fewer incidents of failed entry occurred per 1000 patients operated on with a direct trocar vs a Veress needle). Evidence was insufficient to show whether there were differences between groups in vascular injury, visceral injury, solid organ injury, or other major complications. 
Evidence was insufficient to show whether there were differences between direct vision entry and Veress needle entry in rates of vascular injury or visceral injury. Equally, evidence was insufficient to show whether there were differences between direct vision entry and open entry in rates of visceral injury, solid organ injury, or failed entry. 
Evidence was insufficient to show whether there were differences in rates of vascular injury, visceral injury, or solid organ injury between use of radially expanding trocars and use of non‐expanding trocars. 
Other studies compared a wide variety of other laparoscopic entry techniques, but all evidence was of very low quality and evidence was insufficient to support the use of one technique over another. 
