Antibiotics for otitis media with effusion ('glue ear') in children
Review question 
This review compared the effects of oral antibiotics against placebo, no treatment or other therapies in children with otitis media with effusion (OME) or 'glue ear'. 
Background 
Glue ear is one of the most common conditions of early childhood. Glue ear means that there is fluid in the middle ear space behind the eardrum. This may cause hearing difficulties that may in turn affect children's behaviour, language and progress at school. In approximately one in three children with glue ear, bacteria are identified in the middle ear fluid. Therefore, people have suggested that antibiotics may be beneficial in children with glue ear. 
Study characteristics 
This review included evidence available up to 14 April 2016. In total 25 studies (3663 children) were eligible for inclusion. Two studies did not report on any of the outcomes of interest, leaving 23 studies (3258 children). Overall, we assessed most studies as being at low to moderate risk of bias. In the 23 studies many different antibiotics were used and the children were of different ages and had suffered from glue ear for various lengths of time. They looked at the benefits at various time points after the treatment was given. 
Key results 
The most important outcomes that we measured were the difference in the proportion of children who no longer had glue ear two to three months after the treatment was started and adverse effects of antibiotics (diarrhoea, vomiting or skin rash). 
We found moderate quality evidence (six trials including 484 children) that children treated with oral antibiotics are more likely to have glue ear resolved two to three months after the treatment was started than those allocated to control treatment. The number of children needed to treat for one beneficial outcome (NNTB) was five. However, there is evidence (albeit of low quality; five trials, 742 children) indicating that children treated with oral antibiotics are more likely to experience diarrhoea, vomiting or skin rash than those allocated to control treatment. The number of children needed to treat for one harmful outcome (NNTH) was 20. 
In respect of the secondary outcome of having glue ear resolved at any time point, we found low to moderate quality evidence from five of our analyses where we combined data from studies (meta‐analyses), which included between two and 14 studies, of a beneficial effect of antibiotics, with a NNTB ranging from three to seven. Time periods ranged from 10 to 14 days to six months. 
In terms of other secondary outcomes, only two trials (849 children) reported on hearing levels at two to four weeks and found conflicting results. None of the trials reported data on speech, language and cognitive development or quality of life. Low quality evidence did not show that oral antibiotics were associated with fewer ventilation tube (grommet) insertions (two trials, 121 children) or in adverse consequences for the tympanic membrane (ear drum) (one trial, 103 children). Low quality evidence indicated that children treated with oral antibiotics were less likely to have acute otitis media (ear infection) episodes within four to eight weeks (five trials, 1086 children; NNTB 18) and within six months after treatment was started (two trials, 199 children; NNTB 5). It should however be noted that the beneficial effect of oral antibiotics on ear infection episodes within four to eight weeks was no longer significant when studies with high risk of bias were excluded. 
