Phototherapy for treating foot ulcers in people with diabetes
Review question 
Phototherapy is a pain‐free method of treatment that uses light to treat various medical conditions. We reviewed the evidence about phototherapy for foot ulcers in people with diabetes. We wanted to find out whether phototherapy speeds up wound healing and improves patients' quality of life, and whether there are any side effects. 
Background 
Foot ulcers are a disabling complication of diabetes that affect 15% to 25% of people with diabetes at some time in their lives. Diabetic foot ulcers are painful and prone to infection. Not all diabetic foot ulcers can be healed, which can ultimately lead to surgical removal of a limb. Phototherapy involves exposing the affected area to ultraviolet light, sometimes using lasers. This is thought to help ulcers heal through multiple mechanisms such as increased cell growth and blood vessel activity. It has been used as an alternative approach for healing foot ulcers in people with diabetes. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials comparing different phototherapies, or comparing phototherapy with other treatments or a placebo (sham treatment), for foot ulcers in adults with diabetes in October 2016. We included eight trials (316 participants). Most studies were undertaken in clinics or hospitals and had small numbers of participants (14 to 84). The average age in the included studies was from 53 to 68 years, and the ratio of females to males was 0.46 to 1.88. The included studies compared phototherapy with placebo or no phototherapy, on top of usual care (usual care could include treatments such as dressings, antibiotics, or wound cleaning). Treatment times ranged from 15 days to 20 weeks. 
Key results 
The results suggested that phototherapy, when compared to no phototherapy or a placebo, may increase the proportion of wounds completely healed during follow‐up and reduce wound size. However, as the included studies involved small numbers of participants and had drawbacks in study methods, our confidence in these results is limited. We did not find sufficient evidence that the potential harms or incidence of amputations differed between the phototherapy group and the no phototherapy/placebo group. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the quality of the evidence to be low due to a lack of data and risk of the study results being biased. Further high‐quality studies are needed to confirm the benefits and harms of phototherapy. 
This plain language summary is up to date as of 26 October 2016.
