Radix Sophorae flavescentis for chronic hepatitis B
Review question  To assess the benefits and harms of Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus placebo or no intervention in people with chronic hepatitis B. 
Background Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a common liver disease that is associated with high morbidity and death. It causes psychological stress and is a burden to people with chronic hepatitis B and their families. Radix Sophorae flavescentis has been used in treating people with chronic hepatitis B; it is believed that it decreases discomfort and prevents replication of the virus in people with chronic hepatitis B. However, its benefits and harms remain unclear. 
Search date  December 2018 was the date of the last search. 
Study characteristics We included 35 randomised clinical trials with 3556 participants. One trial compared Radix Sophorae flavescentis with placebo; the remaining 34 trials compared effects of Radix Sophorae flavescentis in addition to a co‐intervention versus the same co‐intervention. The included trials assessed heterogenous forms and ways of administering Radix Sophorae flavescentis (e.g. oral capsules, oral tablets, intravenous infusion, intramuscular injection, acupoint (a specifically chosen site of acupuncture) injection) with treatment duration of 1 to 24 months. Two trials assessed children under 14 years of age. Participants in two trials had cirrhosis in chronic hepatitis B (late‐stage scarring of the liver). 
Study funding sources Seven of the 35 randomised clinical trials received academic funding from government or hospital. Four trials received no funding. The remaining 24 trials provided no information on funding. Undisclosed funding may influence trial results and may lead to poor trial design. 
Key results Only one of the 35 trials assessed mortality; no deaths occurred. Ten trials assessed serious adverse events; no serious adverse events occurred. None of the trials assessed health‐related quality of life, and no trials followed people who died from hepatitis B or were at risk of dying because of hepatitis B. Adverse events considered 'not to be serious' was an outcome in 19 trials. We cannot say if Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus placebo or no intervention is better or worse regarding the occurrence of adverse events considered 'not to be serious'. Radix Sophorae flavescentis reduced the proportion of people with detectable HBV‐DNA and also the proportion of people with detectable HBeAg. However, caution is needed to understand these beneficial findings, as these trials were at high risk of bias, and these outcomes have not yet been proven relevant to patients. The 432 trials identified could not be included in the review because of lack of information required for the conduct of this review. Accordingly, more information from properly designed randomised clinical trials is needed before one can determine the benefits or harms of Radix Sophorae flavescentis for people with chronic hepatitis B. 
Certainty of the evidence 'Certainty of evidence' means "the extent of one's confidence that review results are correct in supporting or rejecting a finding". The certainty of evidence on the use of Radix Sophorae flavescentis for people with chronic HBV in terms of its beneficial or harmful effects on death, health‐related quality of life, risk of dying due to HBV infection, and serious adverse events cannot be determined, as only a few trials aimed to explore patient‐relevant outcomes. Our certainty in the evidence that Radix Sophorae flavescentis, when compared with no intervention or placebo, decreases or increases adverse events considered not to be serious in people with chronic hepatitis B is very low. Our certainty in the evidence that Radix Sophoae flavescentis decreases the proportion of people with detectable HBV‐DNA and the proportion of people with detectable HBeAg is also very low. These assessments of certainty of evidence are due to the poor design and reporting of the included trials. 
