Treatment for telangiectasias and reticular veins
What are telangiectasias and reticular veins? 
Telangiectasias (spider veins) are small dilated blood vessels near the skin surface measuring less than 1.0 mm in diameter. Reticular veins have a diameter of less than 3.0 mm and are deeper in the skin. The cause is unknown, and they can be solely cosmetic, or can result in pain, burning or itching. Telangiectasias and reticular veins on the legs are very common, increase with age, and have been found in 41% of women over the age of 50 years. Risk factors include family history, pregnancy, local trauma, obesity and hormonal factors 
How are telangiectasias and reticular veins treated? 
There are several treatments, such as sclerotherapy, laser, intense pulsed light, microphlebectomy and thermoablation, but none is established as preferable. Unwanted side effects of treatments include hyperpigmentation (skin darkening), matting (new telangiectasis after treatment), allergy and pain. It is therefore important to know the effects of these treatments to help doctors and patients decide which is the best option for them. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies where patients were randomly selected to receive one treatment for spider veins compared to a sham treatment, or to another type of treatment. We then compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain we are of the evidence. We considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What did we find? 
We found 35 studies with a combined total of 3632 participants (searched to 16 March 2021). Some studies compared one treatment on one leg to another treatment on the other leg. Studies used a variety of different treatments and none of them reported on all of our outcomes. Not all available treatments were investigated: no studies investigated intensive pulsed light, thermocoagulation or microphlebectomy. 
Sclerosing agents improved telangiectasias and reticular veins resolution when compared to sham treatment, but resulted in more unwanted side effects (hyperpigmentation and matting). There was no benefit seen in one sclerosing agent compared to another, or compared to laser, for improving telangiectasias. There may be differences between treatments in adverse events and pain. Compared to other agents, polidocanol may result in less pain. Sodium tetradecyl sulphate (STS) may cause more hyperpigmentation, matting and probably more pain; foam may result in more matting; laser treatment may cause less hyperpigmentation. Combined laser plus sclerotherapy may result in better resolution compared to only sclerotherapy, but may cause more pain. 
How reliable are these results? 
We are not very confident in these results. We downgraded the certainty of the evidence by one or two levels (from high to moderate or low). This was because of the differences in the designs of the studies, which meant that only small numbers of studies and participants provided information for each treatment comparison. 
Conclusion 
Further well‐designed studies are needed to improve our confidence in the comparisons identified in this review, for other treatments available, and for other important outcomes, such as recurrence, time to resolution and long‐term side effects. 
