Interventionist versus expectant care for severe pre‐eclampsia before term
What is the issue? 
Women who develop pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure and protein in the urine) before 34 weeks of pregnancy (early onset) are at risk of severe complications, and even death. These involve the woman's liver, kidneys, and clotting system, and cause neurological disturbances, such as headache, visual disturbances, and fits. If the placenta is involved, this can cause growth restriction or reduced amniotic fluid, placing the baby at risk. 
Why is this important? 
The only known cure for pre‐eclampsia is delivery of the baby. Being born too early can in itself have problems for the baby, even with the administration of corticosteroids 24 to 48 hours beforehand, to help mature the lungs. Some hospitals follow a policy of early delivery, within 24 to 48 hours, called interventionist management, whilst others prefer to delay delivery until it is no longer possible to safely stabilise the woman's condition, called expectant management. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in November 2017 and identified six randomised trials. This review included six trials that randomly assigned women to a policy of interventionist management or expectant management when presenting with severe pre‐eclampsia before 34 weeks of pregnancy. A total of 748 women were included in these six trials. Babies born to women allocated to an interventionist approach were probably more likely to experience adverse effects such as bleeding in the brain (intraventricular haemorrhage). They may also have been more likely to require ventilation, have a longer stay in the neonatal unit, have a lower gestation at birth in days, and weigh less at birth than those babies born to women allocated to an expectant management approach. There was insufficient evidence for reliable conclusions about the effects on perinatal deaths. Babies whose mothers had been allocated to the interventionist group were no more likely to be admitted to neonatal intensive care. 
There were no maternal deaths in the two studies that reported this outcome. The evidence was very low‐quality for the outcome of fits or convulsions (eclampsia), or of fluid in the lungs (pulmonary oedema), and so it was uncertain whether interventionist care made any clear difference to the mothers' health. Evidence from two studies suggested little or no clear difference between the interventionist and expectant care groups for a severe form of pre‐eclampsia, which affects the liver and blood clotting, called HELLP syndrome, which stands for haemolysis (breakdown of red blood cells), elevated liver enzymes (a sign of liver damage), and low platelets (platelets help the blood to clot). None of the studies reported on the incidence of stroke in the mother. With the addition of data from two studies for this update, there was now evidence to suggest that interventionist care probably made little or no difference to the caesarean section rate. 
What does this mean? 
In the absence of an over‐riding maternal or fetal indication for immediate delivery, delay may be more beneficial for the baby. However, there were insufficient data to enable us to draw reliable conclusions about the comparative effects on most outcomes for the mother, and hence the maternal safety of an expectant approach. 
