Cooling the body after resuscitation following cardiac arrest
Review question 
In this review, we asked whether people resuscitated from cardiac arrest benefit when their bodies are cooled to a temperature of 34°C or lower. 
Background 
Population and outcomes 
Around 30% to 50% of all people with coronary heart disease suffer sudden cardiac death at some stage of their illness. Sudden cardiac death means that the heart and subsequently the circulation stop. If these people are not resuscitated, brain cells begin to be irreversibly damaged, and subsequently the person dies. After resuscitation, treatment within the first few hours is critical for avoiding or limiting brain damage. One form of therapy that may help to prevent cell damage consists of cooling the body for several hours after successful resuscitation to 34°C or lower. 
Intervention 
We compared people who had their bodies cooled to 32°C to 34°C or below after resuscitation with people who were not cooled following successful resuscitation. 
Search date 
Evidence is current to May 2015.
Study characteristics 
We included in our analysis six studies (1412 people overall), four of which (437 people) examined effects of cooling the body by conventional methods after successful resuscitation for cardiac arrest. One study that used haemofiltration (cooling the blood externally ‐ similar to dialysis) as the cooling method and one study in which cooling to 33°C was compared with temperature management at 36°C were treated separately in the review. 
Study funding sources 
The study that used external cooling was supported by a dialysis‐related company. Of the five studies included in the main analysis, two received funding from government or non‐profit organizations; three studies did not provide information on funding. 
Key results 
When we compared people whose bodies were cooled to 32°C to 34°C after resuscitation versus those whose bodies were not cooled at all, we found that 63% of those receiving cooling would suffer no, or only minor, brain damage, while only 33% of those not cooled would suffer no, or only minor, brain damage. Cooling had an important effect on simple survival, with or without brain damage: 57% would survive if their bodies were cooled compared with 42% if their bodies were not cooled at all. No serious side effects occurred, but cooling the body was associated with increased risk of pneumonia (49% vs 42% of those studied) and increased risk of low concentrations of potassium in the blood (18% vs 13%). 
Quality of the evidence 
Some studies had quality shortcomings including small numbers of participants and use of inadequate methods to balance participants between intervention and control groups. However, when differences between studies are acknowledged (heterogeneity), it is clear that these shortcomings had no major impact on the main results. 
