Topical antibiotics (applied to the skin) for preventing surgical site infection in wounds that are stitched or held together another way 
Background 
The presence of micro‐organisms, such as bacteria, at wound sites following surgery can result in surgical site infections for patients. Surgical site infections can result in increased healthcare costs, delays in wound healing and pain. Antibiotics are medicines that kill bacteria or prevent them from developing. Antibiotics can be taken by mouth (orally), directly into veins (intravenously), or applied directly to the skin (topically). Topical antibiotics are often applied to wounds after surgery because it is thought that they prevent surgical site infection. There are thought to be benefits in using antibiotics topically rather than orally or intravenously. As topical antibiotics act only on the area of the body where they are applied, there is less likelihood of unwanted effects that affect the whole body, such as nausea and diarrhoea. Topical antibiotics are also thought to reduce the chances of bacterial resistance (bacteria changing to become resistant to medication). However topical antibiotics can also have unwanted effects, the most common being an allergic reaction on the skin (contact dermatitis), which can cause redness, itching and pain at the site where the topical antibiotic was applied. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about how effective topical antibiotics are in preventing surgical site infection if applied directly to wounds after surgery. We focused on the effect of topical antibiotics on the type of surgical wound where the edges are held closely together so that the wound heals more easily (known as healing by primary intention). The edges of these wounds can be held together with stitches, staples, clips or glue. 
What we found 
In May 2016 we searched for as many relevant studies as we could find that investigated the use of topical antibiotics on surgical wounds healing by primary intention. We managed to identify 14 studies which compared topical antibiotics with no treatment, or with antiseptics (i.e. other treatments applied to the skin to prevent bacterial infection), and with other topical antibiotics. Eight of these trials involved general surgery and six involved dermatological surgery (surgery involving only the skin). Many of the studies were small, and of low quality or at risk of bias. After examining them all, the authors concluded that the risk of having a surgical site infection was probably reduced by the use of topical antibiotics applied to wounds after surgery, whether the antibiotics were compared with an antiseptic, or to no treatment. As infection is a relatively rare event after surgery, the actual reduction in the rate of infection was 4.3% on average when the use of topical antibiotic was compared with antiseptic, and 2% when use of the topical antibiotic was compared with no treatment. It would require 24 patients on average to be treated with topical antibiotics instead of antiseptic, and 50 patients to be treated with topical antibiotic compared to no treatment in order to prevent one wound infection. Four studies reported on allergic contact dermatitis, but there was insufficient evidence to determine whether allergic contact dermatitis occurred any more frequently with topical antibiotics than with antiseptics or no treatment, and this should also be considered before deciding to use them. 
