Omega‐3 fatty acid supplementation for intermittent claudication
Intermittent claudication is a pain in the calf due to a lack of blood needed to supply those muscles with oxygen during exercise or movement, ultimately resulting in the person to slow or stop movement. It is the most common presenting symptom for people with long‐standing lower limb arterial disease resulting from narrowing of the arteries that supply the lower limbs with blood. This narrowing most commonly occurs through the process of atherosclerosis in which an artery wall thickens as a result of the accumulation of fatty materials such as cholesterol and triglycerides. People with mild lower limb arterial disease are advised to stop smoking, exercise, and take an antiplatelet agent to prevent heart attack or stroke. Medication to improve walking distance is only of limited value. 
Omega‐3 fatty acids are a type of fatty acid found in fish oils, eggs, fruits and vegetables. They are essential nutrients, as the body cannot make omega‐3 fatty acids by itself. It is thought that omega‐3 fatty acids may be beneficial in heart disease through their effect on several different biological mechanisms. As heart disease and intermittent claudication have similar disease processes it is possible that omega‐3 fatty acids will have similar effects on both diseases and could potentially increase pain‐free walking distance, quality of life and other measures of benefit in those suffering from intermittent claudication. 
The review included nine randomised controlled trials with 425 participants, comparing omega‐3 fatty acid supplementation with other fatty acids. On the basis of these studies, omega‐3 fatty acid supplementation did not improve walking distance, blood pressure in the leg or any other measure of clinical benefit. There was some limited evidence to suggest that omega‐3 fatty acid supplementation may reduce blood viscosity (the resistance of blood to flow), which when high could potentially contribute to intermittent claudication. There was no evidence to suggest that omega‐3 fatty acid supplementation reduced plasma (the liquid component of blood) viscosity or improved the levels of different types of cholesterol or any other components of blood tested. Side effects such as nausea, diarrhoea and flatulence were observed in two studies. 
