In the later stages of Parkinson's disease, side effects occur because of the use of levodopa in its treatment. These consist of involuntary writhing movements (dyskinesia), painful cramps in the legs and a shortened response to each dose referred to as 'end‐of‐dose deterioration' or the 'wearing‐off effect'. Dopamine agonist drugs act by mimicking levodopa in the brain, but they do not cause these long‐term treatment complications. For this reason, dopamine agonists have for some years been added once these problems develop in the hope of improving them. Pramipexole is a new dopamine agonist recently licensed in the UK for the treatment of later Parkinson's disease. In this review, we will examine the trials performed with this drug to see how effective it is and what side effects it causes. 
Four trials have compared pramipexole with placebo in 669 patients with later Parkinson's disease. Two studies were medium term (24 weeks) and 2 studies were short term (4 weeks). Pramipexole significantly reduced the time patients spent in the immobile off state compared with placebo by an average of 1.8 hours. No changes occurred in a dyskinesia rating scale in any of the studies, but dyskinesia recorded as a side effect was reported more frequently with pramipexole. A significant improvement occurred in the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale (UPDRS) complication score in 2 studies but not in the remaining trials. Significant improvements in UPDRS activities of daily living score occurred with pramipexole in all studies. Significant improvements in UPDRS motor scores in the mobile on state were reported in 3 of the 4 studies. Levodopa dose reduction was allowed in 3 studies and meta‐analysis showed a significant difference in favour of pramipexole. There was a suggestion of more side effects such as nausea, vomiting and dizziness with pramipexole and a definite increase in hallucinations in those given pramipexole. There were significantly fewer withdrawals from pramipexole. 
