Brief teaching methods to improve contraceptive use among young people
Background 
Young people up to age 25 have high rates of unplanned pregnancy. They need modern birth control methods and services. We wanted to find ways to educate young people about birth control that are brief enough for clinic use. 
Methods 
To 7 March 2016, we ran computer searches for randomized and non‐randomized studies. The teaching strategy could involve up to three sessions of 15 to 60 minutes plus follow‐up. The effort had to address an effective method of birth control. Main outcomes were pregnancy and birth control use. 
Results 
We found 11 studies from 1983 to 2015 that included 8338 women. Ten studies were from the USA and one was from China. We focused here on the five studies that showed some effect. Two tested special counseling. At one year, teens with special counseling for their age used birth control more effectively than those with standard counseling. 
Two studies used audiovisual tools plus counseling. One trial provided a slide‐tape presentation on sexual health for young men. At one year, the treatment group was more likely than the control group to use an effective contraceptive and have a partner who used oral contraceptives (OCs). The other used a computer program for decision‐making for young women. At one year, more women in the intervention group at one site used OCs compared with the control group.  Two other studies showed some effect. In one, young women with phone follow‐up and counseling were more likely to have consistent OC use at three months and six months than the group with counseling only. Also at three months, they were more likely to report condom use at last sex. One trial that assigned sites compared an enhanced package of birth control services after abortion versus standard care. At six months, the enhanced‐service group was more likely to use effective contraception and use condoms consistently and correctly. 
Authors' conclusions 
Few studies tested brief teaching methods for young people. About half of the studies had some effect, but they differed in methods and in ages and life situations of the young people. More intense strategies could work better, but would be difficult for many clinics to use. Overall, study quality was low. 
