Preparing tooth surfaces in preparation for the bonding of fixed orthodontic braces
Review question 
The main question addressed by this review is: what is the best method for preparing the enamel on the surface of teeth so as to improve the bonding (sticking) of fixed orthodontic braces? 
Background 
Many people need to wear fixed orthodontic devices, such as braces, to correct problems with the teeth and jaw (e.g. overcrowding or front teeth that stick out (protrude) or go too far backwards (retroclined)). How these braces are fixed in place will be of interest to them. In order to attach an orthodontic device, such as a brace, to a tooth, the surface of the appropriate tooth first needs to be prepared so that it can retain the glue or bonding agent used to enable the device to be attached securely. For the past 50 years, the usual way of doing this has been to etch (roughen) the surface of the tooth with acid, commonly phosphoric acid, although maleic acid or polyacrylic acid are also sometimes used. Possible harms of etching include the permanent loss of enamel (hard surface) from the surface of the tooth making it more likely for it to lose calcium or weaken during and after treatment. Recently, to reduce the length of time and complexity of the process, a technique using self etching primers (SEPs) has been developed as an alternative to conventional etchants or acids. However, whether SEPs or conventional etchants are better, and the best SEP, acid, concentration and etching time, remain to be determined. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane Oral Health carried out this review of existing studies, which includes evidence current up to 8 March 2013. This review includes 13 published studies in which a total of 417 children and adults randomly received different tooth preparations before fixed orthodontic braces were bonded to their teeth. Eleven of these studies compared SEPs with conventional etching, and two compared two different SEPs. 
Key results 
Only five of the studies provided usable evidence for this review and the combined results did not enable a conclusion to be made about whether or not there is a difference in bond failure (when the orthodontic fixings come away from the tooth) between SEPs and conventional etching. There was also no usable evidence to suggest whether SEPs or conventional etchants lead to less decay around the etching site, or are associated with fewer costs or better participant satisfaction. There was also no usable evidence to enable conclusions to be drawn about which was the best SEP, acid, concentration or etching time. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence presented is of low quality due to issues with the way in which some of the studies were conducted. 
