Optimization of fluid levels in people suffering hip fractures
Background 
Hip fractures are common among elderly people, who often have medical conditions that put them at risk of developing other problems whilst their fracture is treated. Treatment usually involves an operation to fix the break in the bone, and giving too much or too little fluid to a patient around this time may increase the risk of additional problems. Healthcare staff use many approaches to determine how much fluid a patient needs in this situation, but it is not clear whether some methods are better than others. For this Cochrane review, we looked at research on the effects of different methods of finding maximum effective fluid levels for adult men and women who undergo surgery for any type of hip fracture. 
Study characteristics 
Evidence is current to September 2015. We found five studies with 403 participants, each of which compared two or three methods of guiding fluid therapy. These methods include 'usual care' (whereby staff use changes in basic measurements, such as heart rate, to decide for themselves how much fluid to give), 'protocols using standard measures' (whereby staff use changes in basic measurements when giving fluid according to a formal set of rules) and 'advanced haemodynamic monitoring' (whereby staff use invasive equipment, such as specialized blood pressure monitoring devices placed into arteries, to determine how much fluid to give). 
Key results 
These trials found no evidence to suggest that using one method instead of another reduces harm, including death, or decreases the number of complications. We found no evidence, when study results were combined, indicating that any method reduced length of hospital stay or time that participants were assessed as medically fit for discharge. Results also showed no difference in the number of participants able to return to normal accommodation after discharge. 
Quality of evidence 
We found few relevant studies with only a small number of participants. The time difference between the earliest study, published in 1985, and the latest study, published in 2014, suggests that standard practice for managing hip fracture may differ between these studies. We judged one study as having a high risk of bias, and we used the GRADE approach to assess evidence quality as low or very low. Results of the review are applicable only to countries in which the relevant studies were conducted, as 'usual care' may differ in other countries. 
Conclusion 
Current evidence is insufficient to show which method of finding maximum effective fluid levels in people undergoing hip fracture surgery is preferable. 
