Physiological track‐and‐trigger/early warning systems for use in maternity care
What is the question? 
The aim of this review is to find out from randomised controlled trials if using simple monitoring tools are helpful in alerting to clinical problems and in reducing serious illness or death in pregnant women and in their first six weeks after birth. Examples of such tools are track and trigger systems or early warning systems kept by the bedside in maternity care. 
Why is this important? 
Many natural functional changes occur in a woman's body during pregnancy. As a result, a pregnant woman, who may appear healthy and well, can become rapidly very sick. This is called clinical deterioration. If not detected sufficiently early and treated successfully, the pregnant woman can become seriously ill or even die. Examples are serious bleeding, development of convulsions when a woman has high blood pressure, blood clots and serious infection. Simple bedside tools or charts can be used by maternity care providers (midwives and doctors) to record information on a woman's health. The recorded health measures include her blood pressure, pulse rate, breathing rate, body temperature, and other health measures such as urine output and mental alertness. The tools have been introduced so that the measures are observed, recorded and interpreted together, rather than as single measures. The intention is to detect when serious illness is, or might be developing. Medical staff can then step in to prevent serious harm.  
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 28 May 2021 and identified two studies that compared an early warning system with standard care. One study was a single‐centre study involving 700 women and the second was a stepped‐wedge cluster trial (multiple centres grouped into 'clusters') involving 536,233 women. Different clusters of centres introduced the tool over time until all centres were using the tool. Both studies were carried out in low‐resource healthcare settings. The tools were called the 'Saving Mothers Score' (SMS) and the CRADLE Vital Sign Alert (VSA) device. Risk of bias in the two studies was low or unclear.  
We found that the tools probably do not reduce maternal death. Women may have less serious bleeding (or haemorrhage) when an early warning tool is used. This finding was supported by low‐certainty evidence. We also found that the tools may make little or no difference to a potentially life‐threatening body response to infection (sepsis), to blood pressure with swelling, protein in the urine and convulsions (eclampsia), to a serious illness in pregnancy that affects the blood and the way the liver works (HELLP), or being admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU). Use of the tools probably reduces the time a woman stays in hospital (moderate‐certainty evidence). We also found that the tools may make little or no difference to the death of the baby in the first month after birth (neonatal death). This finding was supported by low‐certainty evidence. Neither of the two included studies reported cost outcomes. 
