Using antibiotics to treat intra‐amniotic infection in pregnant women
Review question: Cochrane authors reviewed available evidence from randomized controlled trials on the use of antibiotics for the treatment of pregnant women with intra‐amniotic infection (chorioamnionitis). 
Background: chorioamnionitis is a common occurrence among pregnant women that affects both mother and baby and usually results in referral to hospital. It is an infection of the fetal membranes, amniotic fluid, and placenta that can cause complications for the newborn infant including whole body inflammation or sepsis, pneumonia, and meningitis. Chorioamnionitis can also result in health issues for the mother such as pelvic infection, sepsis, postpartum hemorrhage, and increased risk for cesarean delivery of the infant. Risk factors for developing chorioamnionitis include active labor for a long time, extended duration of rupture of membranes and internal monitoring, meconium staining of amniotic fluid, and a large number of digital vaginal examinations. Treatment for patients with intra‐amniotic infection usually consists of antibiotics that can be administered during birth or immediately afterward. Currently, information is insufficient to suggest the most appropriate treatment regimen, which antibiotic regimen should be used, and whether antibiotics should be continued during the period immediately following birth and for what duration. 
Study characteristics: a total of 11 studies were identified with 1296 women; most studies were conducted in the USA. Four studies evaluated the use of antibiotics before the birth (antepartum); six studies evaluated the use of antibiotics after birth (postpartum); and one compared antibiotic administration both before and after birth. 
Quality of the evidence: the quality of the evidence was ranked low to very low, mainly because many studies had methodological limitations with outcome results based on limited numbers of trials and included participants that could be pooled. 
