Interventions focusing on the link between the mind and body for adults with fibromyalgia
Research question 
What are the effects of mind and body therapy for fibromyalgia on pain, physical function, mood and side effects? 
What problems does fibromyalgia cause?  People with fibromyalgia have chronic, widespread body pain, and often have fatigue (feeling tired), stiffness, depression and problems sleeping. 
What are mind‐body interventions? 
Mind‐body interventions include treatments such as biofeedback, mindfulness, movement therapies, psychological therapy and relaxation therapies. Biofeedback is when you are connected to electrical sensors that help you receive information about your body to make subtle changes in your body, such as relaxing. Mindfulness means having awareness of thoughts, feelings and bodily sensations. All mind‐body therapies make the link between thoughts, behaviour and feelings to help people to cope with their symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
We conducted a review of the effect of mind‐body therapies for adults with fibromyalgia. After searching for all relevant studies until October 2013, we found 61 studies including 4234 adults. 
‐ Many studies only included female participants, but some males were included in a few studies. ‐ Participants had mild to severe fibromyalgia. ‐ Mind‐body interventions were compared to 'usual care', such as medication use. Secondary analysis also compared findings in comparison to an 'attention control therapy' which involved receiving information for the same amount of time as the mind‐body therapy. 
Key results at the end of treatment 
‐ Low quality evidence revealed that psychological therapies improved physical functioning, pain, mood and side effects compared to usual care. More people withdrew from the psychological therapy group compared to usual care. 
‐ There was little or no difference in physical functioning, pain and mood between people receiving biofeedback and usual care but this may have happened by chance. More people withdrew from the biofeedback than the usual care group. No studies reported any side effects. 
‐ There was little or no difference in physical functioning, pain, mood and the number of withdrawals between people receiving mindfulness therapy and usual care. No studies reported any adverse events. 
‐ We are uncertain whether movement therapies improve physical functioning, pain, mood, side effects or the number of people who withdrew from the treatment. There were improvements in pain and mood for people receiving movement therapies but the quality of the evidence was very low. More people withdrew and two participants reported experiencing increased pain in the intervention group. 
‐ We are uncertain whether relaxation therapies improve physical functioning and pain compared to usual care because the quality of evidence was very low. There was little or no difference in mood and withdrawal from treatment between people receiving relaxation therapies and those receiving usual care. No adverse events were reported. 
Best estimates of what happens at the end of treatment in people with fibromyalgia when they use mind‐body therapies 
The main findings on the use of psychological therapies are summarised below.
‐ Physical functioning after 1 to 25 weeks (higher scores mean greater limitations) 
People who used psychological therapies rated their physical functioning as 2 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100 compared to those who received usual care (7.5% absolute improvement). 
