Device‐modified trabeculectomy for glaucoma
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of the use of devices in a standard glaucoma surgery (trabeculectomy) for the treatment of glaucoma. 
Background 
Glaucoma is a disease of the optic nerve that leads to vision loss and blindness. It is the second leading cause of worldwide blindness, and the blindness caused by glaucoma is permanent. Treatment for glaucoma aims to reduce pressure in the eye (IOP), which helps to slow down or prevent further vision loss from glaucoma. Eye pressure can be lowered with medications, laser therapy, or surgery. Trabeculectomy, the most common standard surgical procedure for the treatment of glaucoma, can be modified by using aids or devices during the surgery. Current studies have reported using various devices such as Ex‐PRESS, Ologen, amniotic membrane, expanded polytetrafluoroethylene (E‐PTFE) membrane, Gelfilm, gold shunt, T‐flux, etc. 
Study Characteristics 
We found 33 studies that met our inclusion criteria. These studies included a total of 1542 glaucoma participants and compared five types of devices implanted during trabeculectomy versus trabeculectomy alone. Five studies reported the use of Ex‐PRESS (386 participants), eight studies reported the use of Ologen (327 participants), 18 studies reported the use of amniotic membrane (726 participants), one study reported the use of E‐PTFE (60 participants), and one study reported the use of Gelfilm (43 participants). These studies were conducted in North America, South America, Europe, Asia, and the Middle East. Planned participant follow‐up periods ranged from three months to five years. 
Key Results 
Three studies found that the use of the Ex‐PRESS shunt during trabeculectomy may slightly reduce eye pressure by about 1.6 mm Hg more than trabeculectomy alone. Another study did not find any difference in eye pressure at one year between trabeculectomy combined with Ex‐PRESS versus trabeculectomy alone. Five studies did not find any important difference between trabeculectomy and Ologen compared to trabeculectomy alone. Nine studies found that the use of amniotic membrane during trabeculectomy may reduce IOP by about 4 mm Hg more than trabeculectomy alone at one‐year follow‐up. We did not find important differences for postoperative eye pressure at one year between trabeculectomy + E‐PTFE and trabeculectomy alone. We did not find enough data regarding the evidence for the use of Gelfilm. It is uncertain whether these devices are as safe as trabeculectomy alone. The evidence is current to 22 December 2014. 
