Using corticosteroids to treat Kawasaki disease
Key message 
Corticosteroids appear to reduce the risk of heart problems after Kawasaki disease without causing any important side effects. They also reduce the length of symptoms (fever and rash), length of hospital stay, and blood markers associated with being unwell. 
What is Kawasaki disease and how is it treated? 
Kawasaki disease is an inflammation of the blood vessels. Standard medicines to treat Kawasaki disease are intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIG) and aspirin. This treatment is usually effective, but it does not work for all children. We currently have a limited understanding of Kawasaki disease and how best to manage it. This is important as one of the long‐term consequences can involve the heart, putting the children with the disease at higher risk of life‐shortening outcomes. 
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled studies that treated children with Kawasaki disease using medicines known as corticosteroids, to see if they reduced the chance of future heart problems. We also investigated the effect on the duration of fever, signs of infection in the blood, and the number of days spent in hospital. In randomised controlled studies, the treatments or tests people receive are decided at random and these usually give the most reliable evidence about treatment effects. 
What did we find? 
We found eight studies involving 1877 participants, which compared the use of corticosteroids with no corticosteroids in children with Kawasaki disease. Combining the results from these studies showed that heart problems were reduced after corticosteroid treatment. There were no serious side effects or deaths reported in the corticosteroid treatment groups or the no corticosteroid treatment groups. Blood markers that indicate illness were reduced and children had shorter stays in hospital when treated with corticosteroids. Symptoms of Kawasaki disease (fever and rash) lasted for a shorter time after corticosteroid treatment. None of the studies reported on long‐term (more than one year after disease onset) heart problems (coronary morbidity), which can be associated with Kawasaki disease. 
How certain are we in the evidence? 
Evidence was of moderate certainty for serious side effects and deaths, the risk of future heart problems, blood markers and length of hospital stay. This means that we are moderately confident that the true effect is close to that estimated in this review. Evidence was considered low certainty for the duration of clinical symptoms (fever and rash). This means our confidence in the effect estimate is limited and this was because of how these symptoms were measured and reported. 
