Intervention to prevent delirium for critically ill patients in the intensive care unit (ICU) 
Background 
Delirium is an acutely disturbed state of mind that occurs in critically ill adults in the intensive care unit (ICU). It is associated with a prolonged time on mechanical ventilation to assist breathing, longer stay in the ICU and hospital, and higher risk of death. ICU delirium is also linked with cognitive problems such as loss of memory and attention, difficulty in concentrating and reduced awareness. The risk factors for delirium include old age, alcoholism, vision/hearing impairment and, for critically ill patients, the use of restraints, prolonged pain and some medications. 
Review question 
Our aim was to assess the existing evidence on the effect of interventions for preventing ICU delirium, reducing in‐hospital death, reducing length of coma/delirium, the need for mechanical ventilation to assist breathing, the length of stay in the ICU and mental problems 
Study characteristics 
We included 12 randomized controlled trials (3885 participants) in our review. The studies included adults aged 48 to 70 years from surgical and medical ICUs. The studies compared different drugs (three studies) various approaches to sedation (five studies), physical or cognitive therapy or both (one study), noise and light reduction in the ICU (two studies), and preventive nursing care (one study). The studies had mostly small numbers of participants and did not blind the researchers who assessed effects on outcomes. We report the findings regarding the effect of the two most commonly explored approaches for preventing delirium, drug and non‐drug interventions, haloperidol versus a sham drug, and early physical and cognitive therapy versus usual care. 
Key results 
Our findings suggest that there may be little or no difference between haloperidol and placebo for preventing ICU delirium, but further studies are needed to reduce imprecision and increase our confidence in the findings. More studies of physical and cognitive therapy are needed as there is insufficient evidence to determine whether these non‐pharmacological approaches can prevent delirium in the ICU. Additional research is required to explore the benefits and harms of other approaches to prevent delirium in the ICU such as sedation and changes in the ICU environment, and nursing care tailored to prevent delirium. 
