Nasal saline irrigation for acute upper airway infection symptoms
Review question  Does the addition of nasal saline spray or wash to usual care or placebo reduce the severity of symptoms or speed the recovery of adults and children with cold and flu symptoms that have been present for less than four weeks? 
Background  Acute upper respiratory tract infections (URTIs) include colds, influenza and infections of the throat, nose or sinuses. They are usually self limiting viral infections, though sometimes symptoms may persist for many weeks beyond the clearance of the initial infection, with or without establishment of secondary bacterial infections. The aim of treatment is predominantly for relief of symptoms, though some treatments may have a role in reducing the duration of post‐viral symptoms, such as cough. Saline nose spray and larger volume nasal washes have become more popular as one of many treatment options for URTIs, and they have been shown to have some effectiveness for chronic sinusitis and following nasal surgery. However, little is known about their effectiveness in the treatment of acute URTI or which symptoms they may be effective for. 
Study characteristics 
We identified five studies, with a total of 749 participants enrolled and 565 participants providing data, which addressed the research question and met the inclusion criteria. They all compared saline irrigation with routine care or other nose sprays. These studies covered a wide range of ages, countries, sample sizes, dosing methods and frequency, and time since onset of URTI symptoms. They were also highly variable in their design and the symptoms that were measured. This is not surprising due to the lack of consistent measures of URTI symptoms and signs. This resulted in very few common outcome measures that could be combined across these five studies. The evidence is current to August 2014. 
Key results  The two additional studies included since the original systematic review have not contributed data of sufficient size or quality to materially change the original findings. Only the largest study, which studied 401 children aged 6 to 10 years, found significant reductions in a number of symptoms, including nasal secretions, sore throat, nasal breathing score and nasal obstruction, as well as reduced use of additional nasal decongestant medications. It also reported a significant improvement in the health status score. There was a reduction in the outcome of time to resolution of symptoms, which was reported in two trials on adult participants, but the difference was not clinically significant. Nasal saline is safe but may cause minor adverse effects, such as irritation or a burning sensation, particularly with products using higher flows or concentrations. 
