What are the best ways to help people with depression go back to work?
What is depression? 
Depression is a common mental health problem that can cause a persistent feeling of sadness and loss of interest in people, activities, and things that were once enjoyable. A person with depression may feel tearful, irritable, or tired most of the time, and may have problems with sleep, concentration, and memory. 
Depression may affect people's ability to work. People with depression may be absent from work (off sick), or feel less able to cope with working. 
Going back to work 
Reducing depressive symptoms may help people with depression to go back to work. Treatments include medications and psychological (talking) therapies, or a combination of both. Changes at the workplace could also help, such as: 
changing a person's tasks or working hours;
supporting them in a gradual return to work; or
helping them to cope better with certain work situations.
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
Work can improve a person's physical and mental well‑being; it helps build confidence and self‐esteem, allows people to socialise, and provides money. We wanted to find out if workplace changes and clinical programmes could help people with depression to return to work. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at whether workplace changes and clinical programmes affected the amount of sick leave taken by people with depression. Clinical programmes included: medicines (anti‐depressants); psychological therapies; improved healthcare by doctors; and other programmes such as exercise and diet.  
Search date: we included evidence published up to 4 April 2020. 
What we found 
We found 45 studies in 12,109 people with depression. The studies took place in Europe (34 studies), the USA (8), Australia (2) and Canada (1). 
The effects of 'care as usual' were compared with those of workplace changes and clinical programmes to find out: 
how many days people with depression were on sick leave
how many people with depression were off work;
people's symptoms of depression; and
how well people with depression could cope with their work.
What are the results of our review? 
Our main findings within the first year of follow‐up, for workplace changes or treatments compared with usual care, are listed below. 
Workplace changes combined with a clinical programme:
probably reduce the number of days on sick leave (on average, by 25 days for each person over one year; 9 studies; 1292 participants); 
do not reduce the number of people off work (2 studies; 1025 participants);
may reduce symptoms of depression (8 studies; 1091 participants); and
may improve ability to cope with work (5 studies; 926 participants).
Workplace changes alone:
may increase the number of days on sick leave (2 studies, 130 participants);
probably do not lead to more people off work (1 study; 226 participants);
probably do not affect symptoms of depression (4 studies; 390 participants); and
may not improve ability to cope with work (1 study; 48 participants).
Improved healthcare alone:
probably reduces the number of days on sick leave, by 20 days (in two, well‐conducted studies in 692 participants, although not in all 7 studies, in 1912 participants); 
probably reduces symptoms of depression (7 studies; 1808 participants); and
may reduce ability to cope with work (1 study; 604 participants).
Psychological therapies alone:
may reduce the number of days off work, by 15 days (9 studies; 1649 participants); and 
may reduce symptoms of depression (8 studies; 1255 participants).
We are uncertain if psychological therapies alone affect people's ability to cope with work (1 study; 58 participants). 
How reliable are these results? 
Our confidence in these results is mostly moderate to low. Some findings are based on small numbers of studies, in small numbers of participants. We also found limitations in the ways some studies were designed, conducted and reported. 
