Platinum‐containing regimens for metastatic breast cancer
What is the issue? Metastatic breast cancer occurs when the cancer has spread to areas of the body beyond the breast and nearby lymph nodes. Although metastatic breast cancer is generally not curable, it is widely accepted that women with metastatic disease should receive some form of chemotherapy to help ease the severity of disease symptoms, while hopefully extending survival time. Chemotherapy containing platinum is known to be effective for treating a number of cancer types including lung, testicular, head and neck, bladder and ovarian cancers, but it also known to cause more adverse effects (such as nausea and vomiting, hair loss, anaemia, kidney damage and leukopenia (low white blood cells)) than other chemotherapy options. The two platinum agents most commonly used for treating metastatic breast cancer are carboplatin and cisplatin. 
The original version of this review (2004) concluded that chemotherapy containing platinum did not increase survival time for women treated for metastatic breast cancer. Since then, however, researchers have discovered that there are a variety of subtypes of breast cancer which may respond differently to different types of chemotherapy. One of these subtypes — triple‐negative breast cancer (TNBC) — makes up approximately 12 to 17% of breast cancers and is associated with shorter survival and higher likelihood that the cancer returns. Some researchers have speculated that chemotherapy containing platinum might be more effective in treating metastatic TNBC (mTNBC) than other chemotherapy options. 
Why does it matter? There are at least two reasons why it is important to update the evidence on this topic. First, it is important to assess whether our 2004 conclusions — based on 12 early studies — are representative of the 24 studies who have now published or provided results through to 2015. Second, it is important to assess whether chemotherapy containing platinum increases survival for women with mTNBC more than other chemotherapy options. 
We asked whether chemotherapy treatments containing a platinum agent are more or less effective for treating women with metastatic breast cancer than chemotherapy treatments not containing a platinum agent. We also asked the same question, but with a focus on women with mTNBC. 
We found 24 studies involving 4418 women. The evidence is current to May 2015. Five of the 24 studies specifically assessed women with mTNBC while the other 19 studies assessed women with metastatic breast cancer in general (mainly women without mTNBC). This review found that, compared to chemotherapy without platinum, chemotherapy with platinum did not increase survival time by any important degree for women with metastatic breast cancer in general (mainly women without mTNBC). The quality of the evidence for this was considered to be high, meaning that we are confident about the results. For women with mTNBC, however, this review found that chemotherapy containing platinum may increase survival time over chemotherapy without platinum, but the quality of the evidence for this is low at this point in time (largely due to the small number of studies that have assessed mTNBC). This review also found that chemotherapy including platinum reduced the number of breast cancer recurrences compared to chemotherapy that did not contain platinum in women with mTNBC, however these findings also currently come from low‐quality evidence. There was no difference in the number of breast cancer recurrences for women receiving platinum or non‐platinum chemotherapy for metastatic breast cancer in general. Chemotherapy with platinum was more likely to shrink tumours compared to chemotherapy without platinum, but this result needs to be considered cautiously. 
