Tramadol for osteoarthritis
This summary of a Cochrane Review presents what we know from research about the benefits and harms of tramadol (a pain reliever) for treating osteoarthritis (OA). We examined the published research up to 1 February 2018 and found 22 studies involving 3871 people taking tramadol and 2625 people in a comparator group. Compared with placebo (dummy treatment), moderate quality evidence showed that taking tramadol for up to three months had no important benefit on mean pain or function, although slightly more people in the tramadol group reported an important improvement (defined as 20% or more). Also, people may have had more side effects that them to stop taking it, such as nausea, vomiting, dizziness, constipation, tiredness and headache. We were less certain of the risk of serious effects due to the small number of events. Most of the trials were funded by the pharmaceutical industry. 
What is osteoarthritis and what is tramadol? 
OA is a disease of the joints, such as the knee or hip. When the joint loses cartilage, the bone grows to try and repair the damage. Instead of making things better, the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can make the joint painful and unstable. This can affect physical function or ability to use the knee. 
Tramadol is an opioid used to treat OA. Unlike other pain relievers such as non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), it does not cause bleeding in the stomach and intestines, or kidney problems. It also does not affect the cartilage at the end of the bones. However, tramadol may not decrease swelling. 
What are the results of this review? 
People in the 22 included trials took various daily doses of tramadol or a placebo, an NSAID or a different pain reliever. Most of them were women, with an average age of 63 years, and with moderate to severe pain. The length of the studies ranged from one week to three months. The results below are for tramadol alone compared to placebo. There were similar results for tramadol in combination with acetaminophen. 
Pain (0 to 100 visual analog scale (VAS); lower scores mean less pain) 
People who took tramadol alone rated their pain to be four points lower than placebo (4% absolute improvement). People who took tramadol alone rated their pain to be 50.3; people who took a placebo rated their pain to be 54.3. 
Ten percent of people who took placebo had a clinically important improvement (at least 20%) in pain and 15% who took tramadol group had a clinically important improvement (5% more people). 
Physical function (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities Arthritis Index (WOMAC) 0 to 1700 scale; lower scores mean better physical function) 
People who took tramadol alone rated their physical function to be 68 points lower than placebo (4% absolute improvement). People who took tramadol alone rated their physical function to be 991; people who took placebo rated their physical function to be 1059. 
Twenty‐one percent of people who took tramadol had a clinically important improvement in physical function and 16% of people who took placebo had a clinically important improvement (5% more people). 
Total side effects 
Sixty‐six out of 100 people may have had side effects when taking tramadol alone compared to 49 out of 100 people when taking a placebo (17% more people). 
