Early administration of inhaled corticosteroids for preventing chronic lung disease in very low birth weight preterm neonates 
Review question Do inhaled corticosteroids administered to preterm infants with birth weight of up to 1500 grams beginning in the first two weeks after birth prevent chronic lung disease as reflected by the requirement for supplemental oxygen at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age? 
Background Preterm babies who require breathing support often develop chronic lung disease. It is thought that inflammation in the lungs may be part of the cause. Corticosteroid drugs when given orally or through a vein reduce this inflammation. However, the use of corticosteroids is associated with serious side effects including cerebral palsy (motor problem) and developmental delay. It is possible that inhaling steroids, so that the drug directly reaches the lung, may reduce the adverse effects. This review looked at trials that compared preterm babies who received steroids or placebo (inactive drug) by inhalation while they were receiving breathing support. There was no previous evidence that the early administration of inhaled steroids reduces chronic lung disease. 
Study characteristics From literature searches updated to 5 January 2016, 10 randomised controlled trials that enrolled 1644 infants were included. 
Study funding sources We are not aware of any financial support from the industry for the included studies. 
Key results In this update of the review there was no significant reduction in the rate of chronic lung disease at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age. A significant reduction in the combined outcome of death or chronic lung disease at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age among all randomised neonates and among survivors was noted. Even though the results were significant, the upper confidence interval was infinity (i.e. we would have to treat every baby with inhaled steroid to prevent one baby dying or developing chronic lung disease at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age). This would not be acceptable in clinical practice. A lower rate of reintubation (the need for the insertion of a tube into the airway) was noted in the steroid group compared with the control group in one large study. There were no statistically significant differences in short‐ and long‐term complications between groups. The results of the long‐term follow‐up of one large study is awaited. 
