Influence of beta‐blockers on perioperative adverse events
Any type of surgery is associated with an increased stress response, which can make the body vulnerable to untoward outcomes. These outcomes may range from death to a heart attack and rhythm disturbances to heart failure, stroke and the like. Beta‐blockers are drugs that attenuate this stress response, which results in slowing down of heart rate and a fall in blood pressure. Whereas on the one hand, these effects are desirable to fight the stress response, the same effects—if pronounced—may cause very low blood pressure, a very low pulse and ultimately stroke or death. 
In our analysis of current evidence (88 randomized controlled trials with 19,161 participants: heart surgery—53 trials, other types of surgery—35 trials), we showed that beta‐blockers had a protective effect against rhythm disturbances after heart surgery. We found no evidence of an effect of beta‐blockers on death; on the occurrence of heart attacks, strokes or heart failure; or on development of disproportionately low blood pressure or slow pulse during this type of surgery. Length of hospital stay after heart surgery was reduced by about 0.5 days in patients taking beta‐blockers. 
In non‐cardiac surgery, beta‐blockers increased the risk of death and stroke, the latter only when a representative group of high‐quality trials was analysed. The protective effect against heart attacks and rhythm disturbances was counterbalanced by this increased risk of death and stroke. We could not identify evidence of an effect of beta‐blockers on heart failure or length of stay in this group of patients. 
In conclusion, perioperative use of beta‐blockers seems beneficial overall in cardiac surgery , as they can substantially reduce the high burden of rhythm disturbances after cardiac surgery. Their influence on death, heart attacks, stroke, heart failure or development of disproportionately low blood pressure or slow pulse in this setting remains unclear. 
