Band ligation versus no intervention for primary prevention of upper gastrointestinal bleeding in people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices 
Background 
Cirrhosis is a chronic disorder of the liver. People with cirrhosis may develop dilated veins in their oesophagus, and these may bleed. Variceal bleeding is potentially life‐threatening. Band ligation is a procedure in which a viewing instrument or endoscope is inserted through the mouth into the oesophagus and the varices are then tied off at their base, thereby cutting off the blood flow. The varices have to be sufficiently large to allow the bands to be applied. This procedure can be done before people bleed from their varices (primary prevention) or after they have suffered a bleed (secondary prevention). 
Review question 
We investigated the benefits and harms of band ligation compared with no treatment, for primary prevention of bleeding in people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices by reviewing clinical trials in which people were randomly allocated (chosen by chance) to band ligation or no treatment. 
Search date 
9 February 2019.
Trial funding sources 
Two of the included trials did not receive funding or support from for‐profit companies; the remaining four trials did not provide information on this issue. 
Trial characteristics 
We included six randomised clinical trials involving 637 participants. All randomised clinical trials compared band ligation to no treatment. One trial included participants with and without cirrhosis. The length of time taken to eradicate the varices, where reported, ranged from a mean of 28 to 76 days. 
Key results 
Our analyses showed a beneficial effect of band ligation on the rates of death, bleeding, and serious adverse events compared to no treatment. 
Certainty of the evidence 
In people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices, the risk of death associated with variceal bleeding is very high as are the risks of other serious harms. Our review has found that band ligation reduces the risks of these problems when compared to no treatment. We are moderately confident in our estimates of the benefits and harms of band ligation. It is unlikely that any further trials comparing band ligation versus no intervention will be undertaken. 
