How accurate is duplex ultrasound (DUS) imaging for diagnosing carotid artery stenosis in symptomatic patients? 
Carotid artery stenosis (CAS) is a narrowing of the lumen (the inside space) of the carotid artery (usually due to cholesterol deposits called plaque). CAS is responsible for 8% of all strokes due to a blocked blood vessel (ischemic strokes) and is associated with a high chance of recurrence. In such circumstances, the treatment is to re‐establish adequate blood flow (by surgery or other approaches to open the artery) to prevent further neurologic episodes. Duplex ultrasound (DUS) can help identify the appropriate patients who will benefit from a more invasive treatment and those who should be with drugs alone. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To determine how accurate DUS is for diagnosing different grades of CAS in individuals with neurologic symptoms. 
What was studied in the review? 
DUS is used in clinical practice as the first test to detect carotid artery stenosis, usually with the result confirmed by other more expensive and invasive tests, such as computed tomography angiography (CTA), magnetic resonance angiography (MRA), or digital subtraction angiography (DSA). The advantage of DUS is that it is less expensive and helps to reduce the time required to select patients for treatment. We included studies assessing the accuracy of DUS compared with DSA, MRA, or CTA in patients with recent stroke symptoms. We grouped the results from studies that used approximately the same method and threshold to assess accuracy in the following categories of carotid artery stenosis: < 50%, 50% to 99%, 50% to 69%, 70% to 99%, and occlusion (blockage of the vessel). 
What are the main results of this review? 
This review included 22 studies (4957 carotid arteries tested). The searches were performed up to 15 February 2021. The results indicate the following: If DUS were to be used in a standardized cohort of 1000 patients: 
For DUS versus DSA  
< 50% CAS (4 studies, 1495 carotid arteries): Estimated 299 patients would have a DUS result indicating the presence of non‐significant CAS, of whom eight (2.7%) would be incorrectly classified. Of the 701 people with a result indicating that < 50% carotid stenosis is not present, 169 (24.1%) would be incorrectly classified. 
