Blue light‐enhanced versus white light resection in the treatment of non‐muscle invasive bladder cancer 
Review question 
How does a resection (surgical removal) of bladder cancer supported with a special visualization method (blue light) compare to a standard resection with white light in people in whom a tumor of the inner bladder wall is suspected? 
Background 
In people suspected of having bladder cancer, suspicious tissue is cut from the inner bladder wall using a special instrument inserted through the urethra into the bladder. However, it is sometimes difficult to tell what is normal bladder versus what is cancer. In order to see the tumor better and remove it completely, a substance, or 'contrast agent,' is put into the bladder through a catheter. During surgery, a special light is used that is meant to make the cancerous area light up blue.  
Study characteristics 
We only included randomized controlled trials (a type of study where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) for inclusion in the review, as this type of clinical study is considered to be of the highest quality producing the most reliable results. We included people who were very likely to have had bladder cancer because if had been seen on an imaging study (like a computed tomography (CT) scan) or when looking into the bladder. We included studies of people with newly suspected tumors and those who had been treated for bladder cancer before and there was concern it had come back.  
Key results 
We included 16 studies addressing our review question. Overall, blue light‐enhanced resection of bladder cancer may reduce the risk of disease recurrence over time compared to white light resection (low‐certainty evidence) and may reduce the risk of disease progression over time (low‐certainty evidence). However, whether this effect is big enough to be meaningful to people with bladder cancer depends on whether they belong to the low, intermediate and high risk group for disease recurrence or progression.   
We also found that blue light may have little or no effect on the occurrence of serious surgical complications (low‐certainty evidence) or the risk of death from bladder cancer over time (low‐certainty evidence). We are very uncertain as to whether blue light TURBT reduces the incidence of unwanted side effects, as the certainty of the evidence was assessed as low. We do not know how non‐serious surgical complications are affected as no data were reported for this outcome. 
