Giving blood pressure‐lowering drugs around the time of surgery to reduce the risk of death and serious illness in adults 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on two drugs that are used to lower blood pressure (angiotensin‐converting enzyme inhibitors (ACEIs) or angiotensin II type 1 receptor blockers (ARBs)) around the time of surgery for reducing the risk of death and serious illness in adults undergoing surgery using a general anaesthetic. 
Background 
People with high blood pressure around the time of surgery are carefully treated as they have a higher risk of complications such as reduced blood flow to the heart muscle (myocardial ischaemia), heart attack, and even death. ACEIs or ARBs relax the blood vessels and are effective in treating high blood pressure associated with surgery, but the outcome is uncertain when these are used for the prevention of surgery‐related complications. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the databases to 8 December 2014. We found seven randomized controlled trials (from 1992 to 2014) with 571 participants that met our inclusion criteria. Two of the seven trials involved 36 participants undergoing non‐cardiac vascular surgery (infrarenal aortic surgery), and five involved 535 participants undergoing cardiac surgery, including valvular surgery, coronary artery bypass surgery, and cardiopulmonary bypass surgery. The interventions started from 11 days to 25 minutes before surgery in six trials and during surgery in one. All of the seven studies were conducted in Europe and the United States. One of the seven studies was funded by a drug company. 
Key results 
Three trials involving 419 participants reported on deaths, but the results were imprecise with no evidence of a difference between the intervention and placebo groups (perioperative mortality). Two trials with 345 participants reported a similar number of participants in the two groups with changes in their electrocardiogram that indicated a heart attack (acute myocardial infarction). The output of the heart (cardiac index) appeared to be increased in one trial only. 
