Minimally invasive treatments to dissolve blood clots in the lungs (acute pulmonary embolism) 
Background 
What is acute pulmonary embolism? 
Acute pulmonary embolism (APE) is a major cause of death and illness in people in hospital. APE occurs when a piece of blood clot (the embolus) breaks off from a blood clot elsewhere in the body (deep vein thrombosis) and travels in the blood to the lungs. The embolus gets stuck in the lung blood vessel(s), and the consequences range from no symptoms to sudden death. The risk of dying from APE can be classified by clinical assessment, along with specialised medical imaging and blood tests. The risk of death determines what treatment the affected person should receive.  
How is acute pulmonary embolism treated?  
The main treatment for APE is blood thinning medications (anticoagulation). This stops new blood clots from forming whilst the body slowly dissolves the clot, but does not get rid of the blood clot. People with high‐risk (massive) APE are so ill that an additional clot‐busting medicine (thrombolytic) is recommended – as well as anticoagulation – to save their lives. The thrombolytic is usually given via a drip into an arm vein (systemic thrombolysis). The thrombolytic circulates in the blood to the lungs and dissolves the clot. Unfortunately, most people do not receive systemic thrombolysis because they have a risk factor (such as recent surgery), which makes the risk of major bleeding after receiving the thrombolytic too great. Systemic thrombolysis does not work in 8% of people who receive it, so they need another dose or an alternative treatment. Surgery for APE is an alternative rescue treatment, but it is not widely available.  
For intermediate‐risk (submassive) APE, giving the thrombolytic medicine is not recommended because the risk of major bleeding outweighs the benefit. These people generally only receive anticoagulation. However, some people at intermediate risk will get worse and die. Identifying this higher‐risk subgroup so they can receive more aggressive treatment may reduce death and illness. 
What did we want to find out?  
There is a lot of interest in new catheter‐directed treatments specifically designed for treating APE. The catheter device is a small, flexible plastic tube that is inserted through a small cut into a vein in the neck or groin. The treating doctor watches on a screen as they steer the tube painlessly through the person's veins into the blood clot in the lungs, using X‐ray guidance. This avoids any big cuts and usually does not need general anaesthetic. The catheter delivers the thrombolytic medicine directly into the blood clot. This method may be more effective at dissolving the blood clots than medicines given into the bloodstream at the arm, which are normally redirected away from blocked lung vessels. A much smaller dose (about 10% to 20%) of the thrombolytic medicine can be used, compared with the dose given in the arm vein. This may reduce the chance of major bleeding, but with the same benefit in dissolving the clot. Other catheter devices can suck the blood clot directly from the blocked blood vessel (catheter embolectomy). This may be useful for people who cannot receive thrombolysis (e.g. because of recent surgery, previous stroke, or pregnancy) or if thrombolysis has not worked. Some studies suggest that the more clot cleared from the lungs, the smaller the chance that the affected person will develop chronic health problems.  
Unfortunately, we do not know how catheter‐based treatments compare with other treatments for people with high‐risk and intermediate‐risk APE. Catheter devices are expensive and have their own complications. We need to know the best APE treatments to save lives and prevent accidental harm.  
What did we do? 
We performed a detailed literature search for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of catheter‐based treatments of high‐risk (massive) and intermediate‐risk (submassive) APE. We chose RCTs because these provide the highest standard of evidence to inform treatment guidelines. We compared and summarised the results and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as trial methods and size. 
What did we find? 
One trial met our inclusion criteria. This trial looked at the benefit of the addition of catheter‐directed thrombolysis to anticoagulation with heparin in 59 people with intermediate‐risk APE. The trial showed no clear differences between catheter‐directed thrombolysis plus anticoagulation versus anticoagulation alone in deaths, major and minor bleeding, recurrent APE and length of hospital stay. Quality of life was not assessed. 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We have very little confidence in the evidence because the trial staff and participants were aware of which treatment the participants received, and the trial involved a small number of participants. 
