Medical treatment of acute hepatitis C virus infection
Background 
Hepatitis C virus (HCV) is a virus that affects the liver. It is usually transmitted by injectable drug abuse, transfusion of infected blood, unhygienic tattooing practices, coming into contact with blood infected with HCV, and unprotected sex. Acute HCV infection is the period that covers within six months of infection. While some people clear the virus after acute HCV infection, the virus remains in others. This is called chronic HCV infection and may cause major health problems such as excessive tiredness, and liver failure leading to vomiting blood, confusion, and death. Overall, an estimated 160 million people worldwide (2% to 3% of the world's population) have chronic HCV infection. A number of medical treatments have been used for acute HCV infection. The best way to treat acute HCV infection is not clear. We sought to resolve this issue by searching for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised clinical trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more intervention groups) whose results were reported to April 2016. We included only trials in which participants had not undergone liver transplantation previously and those who did not have liver disease due to other viral infections. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods which allow comparison of only two interventions at a time (direct comparison), we planned to use advanced method which allows comparison of the many different interventions individually compared in the trials (network meta‐analysis). However, because of the nature of the information available, we could not determine whether the network meta‐analysis results were reliable. So, we used standard Cochrane methodology. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 10 randomised clinical trials which were eligible for our review. Nine randomised clinical trials (467 participants) provided information for one or more measures (outcomes). The main interventions compared included different forms of interferon (protein secreted in response to viral infection), namely, interferon‐alpha alone, interferon‐beta alone, pegylated interferon‐alpha alone, pegylated interferon‐alpha plus ribavirin (another antiviral drug), a vaccine called MTH‐68/B made from a different virus, versus no intervention. None of the trials compared direct‐acting antivirals (the latest option for treating HCV infection) versus placebo or other interventions. The average follow‐up period in the trials ranged from six months to three years. 
Source of funding 
Four of the 10 trials (40%) received financial or other assistance from pharmaceutical companies who would benefit from the findings of the research; the source of funding was not available in five trials (50%), and one trial (10%) was funded by a hospital. 
Quality of evidence 
All the trials were at high risk of bias, and the overall quality of the evidence was very low. This means that there is a possibility of making wrong conclusions overestimating benefits or underestimating harms of one intervention or the other because of the way that the trials were conducted. 
