Neuropsychological and psychological treatments for adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a neurological condition characterised by involuntary activity of the brain which manifests in seizures. People with newly diagnosed epilepsy often report psychological (such as symptoms of depression or anxiety) and neuropsychological (for example, memory or thinking problems) difficulties. Despite this, there is little research into interventions for these difficulties for people with newly diagnosed epilepsy. We reviewed the available evidence for these interventions within this population 
Study characteristics 
The evidence in this review is current to 30 June 2015. We found two studies that evaluated the effectiveness of psychological interventions targeting depression and anxiety symptoms in people with newly diagnosed epilepsy. One study compared the effectiveness of treatment as usual (TAU) versus usual care plus two 20‐minute appointments, three months apart, with a specialist nurse. This was conducted in a sample of 90 people with newly diagnosed epilepsy. 
The second study assessed the effectiveness of a cognitive behavioural intervention (CBI). This approach aims to challenge individuals' negative thoughts alongside behavioural interventions such as graded exposure to situations that prompt anxiety. This entailed 12 group sessions over a six‐month period compared with an equal number of sessions in which counselling without CBI was delivered. This control group was referred to as TAU. 
We identified no studies that evaluated the effectiveness of neuropsychological interventions aimed at addressing memory and thinking problems. 
Key results 
There were two main findings from these studies. First, CBI was more effective than TAU in reducing self reported depressive symptoms. Second, more time spent with a medical professional may have some benefit in improving individuals' knowledge of epilepsy. 
Quality of evidence 
Of the interventions included in this review, one study enrolled people aged from 13 to 19 years (adolescents) rather than just adults and, therefore, generalising these results to all adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy is limited. The second study used an individualised patient‐led approach, in which the patient guided the content of each session. Therefore, it is difficult to determine which intervention factor(s) were effective and which were not. The content of the interventions assessed in the studies within this review was unclear. Overall, the present review identified a paucity of information for assessing the effectiveness of psychological and neuropsychological interventions for epilepsy and, therefore, we can draw no robust conclusions from the evidence presented. 
