Screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus
Review question 
What are the health effects of screening compared to not screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
Type 2 diabetes mellitus is a metabolic disorder characterised by high blood sugar which can lead to complications like kidney and eye disease. It can develop at any age but usually peaks in adults 65 years of age and above and may be treated in the beginning through diet and exercise. Type 2 diabetes mellitus may have no or few symptoms at the start and thus may go undiagnosed. Screening of apparently healthy people could lead to early detection and treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus as well as prevent or delay the development of related complications. 
Study characteristics 
We found one randomised controlled trial (a clinical study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) where 20,184 high‐risk individuals from 33 general practices in Eastern England were either invited or not invited to screening for type 2 diabetes (the ADDITION‐Cambridge study). Eligible participants had to have an elevated diabetes risk score but no known diabetes. The diabetes risk score to identify high‐risk individuals comprised variables relating to age, sex, body mass index, and the use of prescribed steroids and anti‐hypertensive medication. Practices were eligible to participate if they could provide data for calculation of the risk score for at least 70% of their patients. A total of 11,737 participants attended screening in actuality, and 4137 participants represented the no‐screening group. In both groups, 36% of participants were women; the average age of participants was 58.2 years in the screening group and 57.9 years in the no‐screening group. Almost half of participants in both groups were on medication for high blood pressure. 
This evidence is up‐to‐date as of May 2019.
Key results 
We are uncertain about the effects on screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus on death from any cause and death from diabetes‐related causes (the only outcomes of importance for our review for which study authors provided reliable data). The included study did not report on side effects of screening, new cases of type 2 diabetes, health‐related quality of life, glycosylated haemoglobin A1c (HbA1c) as a long‐term measurement of glucose control, and socioeconomic effects (such as costs of screening, use of medication, number of consultations). 
