Pain management for medical abortion before 14 weeks' gestation
Key Messages 
• Ibuprofen has the best evidence for managing pain during medical abortion in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, but the best dose is unclear.  
• Further studies are needed along with a robust, consistent way of recording pain.
 
What is medical abortion? 
There are two main types of abortion ‐ surgical or medical. Surgical abortion is carried out by specialist doctors in a clinic. In medical abortion, women take medicine ('abortion pills' consisting of mifepristone and misoprostol) to end their pregnancy. Medical abortion is increasingly common worldwide, but it is known to cause cramping and lower abdominal pain. In the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, medical abortion can take place in a clinic or at home, so it’s important that women have ways of treating themselves for pain.  
 
What did we want to find out? 
It is unclear what the best method of treating this pain is. We were interested in what the evidence was for pain relief medicines, such as ibuprofen or opiates, and other non‐medicinal methods like hot water bottles or mindfulness. 
 
What did we do? 
We looked for studies that compared different pain relief treatments for medical abortion in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy. 
 
What did we find? 
We found five different studies, all of them looking at different kinds of treatment. Two studies were conducted in Israel, one of which compared ibuprofen with placebo, and another compared ibuprofen with paracetamol. Two studies were conducted in the USA, one compared ibuprofen given in response to pain or preventatively, and another compared pregabalin with placebo. The final study was conducted in the UK and compared being mobile during treatment with resting. 
 
Main results 
We found some evidence for the use of ibuprofen given either routinely with misoprostol, or in response to pain as needed.  
The best dose of ibuprofen is unclear, but a single dose of ibuprofen 1600 mg was likely effective, and it was less certain whether 800 mg was effective. Paracetamol 2000 mg was less likely to improve pain scores as much as ibuprofen 1600 mg, however its use did not appear to cause harm, and it did not affect the success of the abortion. 
A single dose of pregabalin 300mg may not affect pain scores during medical abortion, but like paracetamol, it did not result in any known harm. Being mobile or resting during the medical abortion procedure may not affect pain scores, or the success of the abortion or the time taken to pass the pregnancy.  
 
Limitations of the evidence 
The studies were all relatively small and no study compared the same treatment. As such, we could not compare their results. 
