Drug treatments that specifically target ammonia for adults with cirrhosis and hepatic encephalopathy 
Background 
Cirrhosis is a chronic disorder of the liver. People with cirrhosis may develop hepatic encephalopathy, a condition that results in poor brain functioning. Some people with hepatic encephalopathy show clear evidence of brain dysfunction and are said to have 'overt' hepatic encephalopathy. They may have a poor memory, difficulty concentrating, speech problems, a tremor, particularly of their hands, or stiffness of their limbs. These changes may occur in bouts or may be persistent. Other people with cirrhosis may not show any obvious signs of brain dysfunction, but some aspects of their brain function, such as attention and the ability to perform complex tasks are found to be impaired when tested. They are said to have 'minimal' hepatic encephalopathy. The reason why people develop hepatic encephalopathy is complex, but the build up in the blood of toxins from the gut, particularly of a compound called ammonia, plays a key role. Certain drugs have been developed specifically to lower blood ammonia levels and may help prevent people from developing hepatic encephalopathy and have beneficial effects in those already suffering from this disorder. However, the evidence that they are beneficial is unclear. The five drugs (pharmacotherapies) considered in this review are sodium benzoate, glycerol phenylbutyrate, ornithine phenylacetate, AST‐120 (spherical carbon adsorbent), and polyethylene glycol. 
Review question 
We investigated the use of five pharmacotherapies that specifically target ammonia for the prevention and treatment of hepatic encephalopathy in people with cirrhosis. We did this by reviewing clinical trials in which people with cirrhosis were randomly allocated to treatment with one of these drugs or to an inactive dummy (placebo), to no treatment or to other drugs that are also used to manage this condition, such as, lactulose and lactitol (these are non‐absorbable disaccharides). We included people with cirrhosis who had minimal or overt hepatic encephalopathy and people who were at risk of developing this complication. 
