Green tea for the prevention of cancer
BackgroundThere is a high consumption worldwide of green tea (Camellia sinensis), that contains polyphenols which have a powerful antioxidant activity that can prevent the formation of free radicals that may cause damage and cell death. Therefore it has been suggested that green tea might reduce cancer risk, a theory that has been tested through a number of studies on human populations, which examined the link between green tea consumption and cancer. 
The aim of the reviewWe assessed the association between green tea consumption and the risk of developing cancer in epidemiologic studies. 
Main findingsIn this review we included 142 studies with more than 1.1 million participants looking for an association between green tea consumption and cancers of the digestive tract and the female reproductive system, breast, prostate, kidney and urinary tract, nasopharynx, lung, blood, skin, thyroid and brain. The majority of the studies were of medium to high quality in terms of how they were conducted. Overall, the evidence from the studies showed that the consumption of green tea to reduce the risk of cancer was inconsistent. 
Some studies suggested a beneficial effect on cancer risk, while others indicated no effect, and even suggested a slightly increased cancer risk. In particular, results from experimental studies suggested that green tea extract supplementation yielded a decreased risk for prostate cancer, but increased risk for gynaecological cancers. For non‐melanoma skin cancer no difference in cancer cases emerged. Green tea supplementation seemed to slightly improve quality of life compared with placebo, although it was associated with some adverse effects including gastrointestinal disorders, higher levels of liver enzymes, and, more rarely, insomnia, raised blood pressure and skin reactions. 
In nonexperimental studies, comparing people consuming the highest amount of green tea to those in the lowest category of consumption, we found an indication of a lower occurrence of new cases of overall types of cancer, while no difference emerged for lethal cases. However, results according to the type of cancer and study design were inconsistent.  
What are the conclusions? A beneficial effect of green tea consumption on cancer prevention remains unproven so far. Caution is advised regarding supplementation with high‐dose green tea extracts due to the possible adverse effects. 
