Treatments for pityriasis rosea
Background 
Pityriasis rosea is a common scaly rash prevalent in young adults. A patch of redness and scales is followed by widespread rash. Pityriasis rosea usually resolves within 2 to 12 weeks; however, the rash can resemble a serious contagious skin condition, causing concern. Moreover, pityriasis rosea can cause moderate to severe itching, making effective treatment necessary. 
Review question 
We wanted to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of treatments for pityriasis rosea. Eligible treatments were topical, systemic (oral or injected medicines that work throughout the entire body), or light therapy, given alone or in combination with another treatment, and compared against no treatment, placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), vehicle (inactive ingredients that help deliver an active treatment) only, or another active treatment. As spontaneous recovery usually occurs between 2 and 12 weeks in cases of untreated pityriasis rosea, we considered outcomes reported at two weeks. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to October 2018.
We included 14 studies with a total of 761 participants aged between 2 and 60 years (similar numbers of males and females). Most studies were conducted in Asia in dermatology departments and lasted between 5 to 26 months. Three studies were funded by drug manufacturers; most studies did not report their funding sources. Disease severity was assessed by various measures, but participants were not categorised into mild, moderate, or severe disease. Important treatments assessed by the studies included various antibiotics and acyclovir (a drug meant to treat herpes infections), which were compared to placebo, no treatment, or standard care. Additional treatments included phototherapy, corticosteroids and antihistamine, and Chinese medicine (potenline). Most studies assessed treatment used for one week. 
All reported outcomes were assessed within two weeks of treatment, except for side effects, which were measured throughout treatment. 
None of the included studies reported on the participant's rating of rash improvement. Itch was always participant‐assessed. Rash improvement was rated as good or excellent. 
