Are medical methods for early termination of pregnancy effective and do they cause unwanted effects? 
Key messages‐ Medical abortion is a safe and effective way to terminate pregnancy in the first three months. 
‐ Mifepristone combined with misoprostol is more effective than using these medications on their own. 
‐ Misoprostol is more effective when placed in the vagina than when swallowed, and is less uncomfortable than placing it under the tongue or in the cheek. 
What is medical abortion? 
Medical abortion uses one or more medicines alone or in combination to end a pregnancy. The most common medicines are the hormones prostaglandin and mifepristone. Other medicines include methotrexate (a kind of chemotherapy), and letrozole, which slows the production of the hormone oestrogen. These medicines work by softening the cervix (neck of the womb) and causing the uterus (womb) to contract. They may be swallowed (taken orally), put under the tongue or in the cheek, or put in the vagina. They can be given by a nurse or a doctor in hospital, or taken by women at home. 
Medical abortion methods may cause unwanted effects such as heavy bleeding, pain, nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, Failed abortion is an infrequent but important complication of medical abortion. Medical methods for early abortion are already widely available in some countries, and new medicines are being developed. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out which medicines were most successful in achieving complete abortion in the first three months of pregnancy, and if the dose or way they were given made a difference. We also wanted to know if there were any unwanted effects 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that investigated different medicines, doses and ways of giving the medicines to women having medical abortion in the first three months of pregnancy.Study characteristics 
We included 99 studies that investigated 24 different medicine combinations, doses, and ways of giving the medicine. 
Main results 
Misoprostol put into the vagina is probably more effective to achieve abortion than taken orally, and may be associated with less stomach discomfort than if put under the tongue or between the tongue and cheek. Misoprostol alone and mifepristone alone may result in more failed abortions than misoprostol and mifepristone taken together. There may be little or no difference in the success rate of abortions based on whether the medicines are given at home or in hospital, the dosage of mifepristone, or single versus repeated doses of prostaglandin. However, abortions may be more successful if the medicines are given by a doctor in hospital rather than a nurse in hospital. 
