Surgery for obesity
Review question 
What are the effects of weight loss (bariatric) surgery for overweight or obese adults?
Background 
Obesity is associated with many health problems and a higher risk of death. Bariatric surgery for obesity is usually only considered when other treatments have failed. We aimed to compare surgical interventions with non‐surgical interventions for obesity (such as drugs, diet and exercise) and to compare different surgical procedures. Bariatric surgery can be considered for people with a body mass index (BMI = kg/m²) greater than 40, or for those with a BMI less than 40 and obesity‐related diseases such as diabetes. 
Study characteristics 
We included 22 studies comparing surgery with non‐surgical interventions, or comparing different types of surgery. Altogether 1496 participants were allocated to surgery and 302 participants to non‐surgical interventions. Most studies followed participants for 12 to 36 months, the longest follow‐up was 10 years. The majority of participants were women and, on average, in their early 30s to early 50s. 
Key results 
Seven studies compared surgery with non‐surgical interventions. Due to differences in the way that the studies were designed we decided not to generate an average of their results. The direction of the effect indicated that people who had surgery achieved greater weight loss one to two years afterwards compared with people who did not have surgery. Improvements in quality of life and diabetes were also found. No deaths occurred, reoperations in the surgical intervention groups ranged between 2% and 13%, as reported in five studies. 
Three studies found that gastric bypass (GB) achieved greater weight loss up to five years after surgery compared with adjustable gastric band (AGB): the BMI at the end of the studies was on average five units less. The GB procedure resulted in greater duration of hospitalisation and a greater number of late major complications. AGB required high rates of reoperation for removal of the gastric band. 
