Aromatase inhibitors for short stature in male children and adolescents
Review question 
This review considered whether a class of medications called aromatase inhibitors could increase adult height in male children and adolescents. 
Background 
Aromatase inhibitors are an orally available medicine used to prevent conversion of the male hormone, testosterone, to oestrogen. In both sexes, oestrogen causes closure of the growth plates (areas produce new bone growth and so lengthen bones) in long bones (e.g. thigh bone) when growth is complete at the end of puberty. Blocking this conversion in boys reduces oestrogen levels and can prolong the period of growth, and theoretically increase adult height. Oestrogen is important for female pubertal development, and thus, aromatase inhibitors are not suitable for use in teenage girls. Aromatase inhibitors are currently not approved to treat short stature but are rather used as an 'off‐label' medicine (i.e. they are licensed to treat other illnesses). 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for clinical trials comparing an aromatase inhibitor with placebo or no treatment. We identified four trials (involving 207 male participants) that met inclusion criteria. In one trial, participants received co‐treatment with growth hormone (a hormone that causes growth) and, in another trial, participants had six months' co‐treatment with testosterone. Underlying diagnoses of study participants included short stature of unknown cause, delayed puberty, or lack of growth hormone. Due to differing study designs, only descriptions of individual trials were available and there were no opportunities for combining the trial results. 
Key results 
Short‐term growth outcomes such as predicted adult height (there is currently no proven way to predict a child's adult height accurately, several formulas are used to provide a reasonable guess for child growth) improved in all trials. However, only one trial reported final adult height data, and demonstrated no relevant difference. There was concern that final adult height data were not published for the other studies. Aromatase inhibitors were generally well tolerated and no participants withdrew from the trials because of side effects. However, only one publication reported detailed information regarding side effects. There were concerns regarding the rate of abnormalities in the spine of 45% of young boys who were treated before entering puberty. None of the trials provided information on overall health‐related quality of life or costs. 
Quality of the evidence 
We considered the overall quality of the evidence of the included trials as low or moderate, mainly because of the small number of trials and participants. There remain concerns regarding non‐publication of final height data. 
