Non‐pharmacological care for opioid withdrawal in newborns
Review question 
Do one or more specific non‐pharmacological (treatments other than medicines) care practices benefit newborns with opioid withdrawal after birth? 
Background 
Newborns of mothers who take opioids during pregnancy often experience symptoms of withdrawal after delivery, such as high‐pitched cry, tremors, and high tone. Non‐pharmacological care is the first treatment for symptoms of withdrawal. If symptoms worsen despite non‐pharmacological care, a medication such as morphine, methadone, or buprenorphine is the second treatment to reduce symptoms. Though non‐pharmacological care is the first approach to symptom management, it is not the same at every hospital. We wanted to discover whether one or more non‐pharmacological care practices benefit newborns with opioid withdrawal after birth. 
Study characteristics 
We looked at randomized controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) of opioid‐exposed newborns treated with one or more non‐pharmacological care practice. Non‐pharmacological care practices include changes to the environment to reduce stimulation or provide soothing, changes to feeding frequency or type, changes that increase maternal care of the newborn or maternal wellness, and multiple changes such as occur in a new site or system of care. Search is up to date as of October 2019. 
Key results 
This review included six RCTs that enrolled 353 opioid‐exposed newborns. The studies were published between 1975 and 2018. We also identified seven ongoing studies that may qualify for inclusion at review update when complete. 
Of the six RCTs, four assessed changes to the environment to reduce stimulation or provide soothing. These studies examined the effect of a mechanical rocking bed, prone positioning (lying on tummy), non‐oscillating waterbed, and a low‐stimulation nursery. We are uncertain whether modifying environmental stimulation is associated with length of hospitalization based on one study with 30 infants. Modifying environmental stimulation may be associated with little or no difference in use of pharmacological treatment based on three studies with 92 infants. We are uncertain whether modifying environmental stimulation is associated with weight nadir (lowest weight recorded during birth hospitalization) based on one study with 194 infants. 
One study assessed a change to the feeding type comparing higher‐calorie formula to standard‐calorie formula. We are uncertain whether feeding practices are associated with use of medicines, days to regain birth weight, or weight nadir based on one study with 46 infants. 
One study assessed changes to support the mother with tailored breastfeeding support. We are uncertain whether support of the mother‐infant dyad is associated with length of hospitalization, use of medicines, or neonatal intensive care unit admission based on one study with 14 infants. 
Many potential important effects were not reported, and others were not reported in all studies. 
Quality of evidence 
We are uncertain whether one or more specific non‐pharmacological care practices benefit newborns with opioid withdrawal after birth. The quality of evidence for all outcomes is very low to low and provides limited information to inform individual non‐pharmacological care practices or combinations of non‐pharmacological care practices. 
