Does telephone counselling help people stop smoking?
Background 
There are a number of interventions available to help people stop smoking. One of them is using telephone calls to give smokers information, advice, and help to stop smoking. People can use these services by calling quitlines or by signing up to get calls from counsellors. We wanted to find out whether telephone counselling can help people quit smoking. Our most recent search for evidence was in May 2018. 
Study characteristics 
We found 104 studies (including 111,653 participants) testing the effect of any type of telephone counselling. The participants were mostly adult smokers from the general population, but some studies also looked at teenagers, pregnant women, and people with long‐term or mental health conditions. 
Some studies included participants who had called helplines that provide smoking counselling (quitlines). Other studies included people who had not called quitlines, but received calls from counsellors or other healthcare providers. 
Some studies provided telephone counselling alone, but many others provided telephone counselling along with minimal support such as self‐help leaflets, or more active support such as face‐to‐face counselling, or with stop‐smoking medication. The number of calls offered ranged from a single call to 12 calls. Some studies only recruited people trying to stop smoking, while others offered support even to those not actively trying to stop. 
Studies needed to compare groups whose participants had similar characteristics at the start of the study, to investigate whether the participants had stopped smoking for at least six months, and ideally would test whether people had quit with blood or urine tests. 
We judged few studies to be well designed and conducted. Most had at least one issue that could have affected the results. 
Key results 
In people who had called helplines, providing additional telephone counselling increased their chances of stopping smoking from 7% to 10%. In people who had not called a helpline, but received telephone calls from counsellors or other healthcare providers, their chances of stopping smoking increased from 11% to 14%. In studies which directly compared more versus fewer calls, people who were offered more calls (three to five) tended to be more likely to quit than those who received only one call. Telephone counselling appears to increase the chances of stopping smoking, whether or not people are motivated to quit or are receiving other stop‐smoking support. 
