Improving how physicians working in hospital settings prescribe antibiotics
Review aim 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to learn of ways to improve how physicians working in hospital settings prescribe antibiotics. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 221 studies. 
Key messages 
The use of an antibiotic policy leads to improved prescribing practices and decreases in the duration of antibiotic treatment. 
Interventions that are directed to physicians to improve their antibiotic prescribing practices reduced participant length of stay in hospitals by 1.12 days (based on findings from 15 studies) and did not increase the risk of death (based on findings from 29 studies). Interventions providing advice or feedback to physicians were more effective in improving prescribing practices than those interventions that did not provide this information to physicians. Evidence from seven studies raised concerns that with interventions applying rules to make physicians prescribe properly there were delays in treatment and a breakdown in trust between infection specialists and clinical teams. 
What was studied in the review? 
Antibiotics are used to treat bacterial infections such as pneumonia. Many bacteria have become resistant to antibiotics over time. Antibiotic resistance is a serious problem for patients and healthcare systems because infections caused by antibiotic‐resistant bacteria can lead to higher rates of death and longer hospital stays. Bacterial resistance often occurs because antibiotics are used when they are not needed. Studies have shown that in about half of cases physicians in hospital are not prescribing antibiotics properly. 
We investigated the effectiveness and safety of interventions to help physicians prescribe antibiotics properly and what techniques of behaviour change could influence the success of the interventions. 
Key results 
We found 221 relevant studies. Ninety‐six studies were from North America. The remaining 125 studies were from Europe (87), Asia (19), South America (8), Australia (8), and East Asia (3). The studies tested interventions that fell broadly into two categories: restrictive techniques, which apply rules to make physicians prescribe properly, and enablement techniques, which provide advice or feedback to help physicians prescribe properly. 
We found high‐certainty evidence that interventions lead to more hospital inpatients receiving the appropriate treatment for their condition according to antibiotic prescribing policies. We found moderate‐certainty evidence that interventions reduce the length of hospital stay without increasing patient deaths. Both restriction and enabling techniques were successful in achieving effectiveness of the intervention. We do not need more studies to answer the question of whether these interventions reduce unnecessary antibiotic use, but we do need more research to understand the unintended consequences of the use of restrictive interventions. 
Interventions were successful in safely reducing unnecessary antibiotic use in hospitals, despite the fact that the majority did not use a widely adopted behaviour change technique, which is to audit and provide feedback on performance. Effective communication of the review results could have considerable health service and policy impact. 
How up‐to‐date is the review? 
We searched for studies published up to January 2015.
