Interventions to increase the use of electronic health information by healthcare practitioners
Background 
There is a lot of healthcare information available to doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, and other healthcare practitioners. Today, most of this information is electronic (online, Internet, computers), and it is easy to assume that if information is available to practitioners, they will use it to ensure good patient care; but this is not always the case. 
Review question 
This review asks whether or not practitioners provided with electronic health information (EHI) will use information more often; whether they will provide better patient care; and whether people treated by practitioners' using EHI are better off. 
Study characteristics 
We found six studies involving 535 healthcare practitioners. The studies examined strategies encouraging practitioners to use EHI when caring for patients. We measured practitioners' use of EHI by counting the number of times they logged onto it; by measuring whether or not practitioners' followed the guidance provided by EHI; and by improvements experienced by patients. The studies compared the following strategies: EHI versus printed information (one study); EHI on a "mobile" (e.g. laptop computer) versus a stationary, desktop computer (one study); EHI presented with different search interfaces (an interface is what a user sees when accessing an online resource, think of Google versus Yahoo) (one study); and EHI provided with training (three studies). 
Key results 
The results of this review showed that when provided with a combination of EHI and training, practitioners used the information more often. Two studies measured doctors' use of electronic treatment guidelines, but showed that the electronic aspect of the guidelines did not mean that doctors followed the guidelines. This review provided no information on whether more frequent use of EHI translated into improved clinical practice or whether patients were better off when doctors or nurses used health information when treating them. 
Quality of the evidence 
All included studies were randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), which are considered high‐quality sources of evidence. However, three of the four comparisons that we examined were supported by only one study each and single studies do not typically produce high‐quality evidence. Overall, we rate the body of evidence in this review as low quality. 
