Tests for imaging the optic nerve and its fibres for diagnosing glaucoma
Review questionWe reviewed the evidence about the accuracy of confocal scanning laser ophthalmoscopy (commercially available as the Heidelberg Retinal Tomogram (HRT)), optical coherence tomography (OCT) and scanning laser polarimetry (as used by the GDx device) for diagnosing glaucoma in people who are at risk. These tests can measure the structure of the optic nerve head or measure the thickness of the nerve's fibres, or both. 
BackgroundGlaucoma is a progressive neurodegenerative disease that affects the optic nerve, with corresponding damage to the visual field. The course of the disease can be slowed or halted by reducing intraocular pressure with eye drops or surgery. 
Study characteristicsWe found 106 studies, mostly assessing a single device, which analysed 16,260 eyes (8353 cases, 7907 controls). Forty studies (5574 participants) assessed GDx, 18 studies (3550 participants) HRT, and 63 (9390 patients) OCT. Twenty‐four studies were sponsored by the manufacturer, and in 15 the study funding was unclear. The final diagnosis of glaucoma had to be confirmed by clinical examination, including visual field testing or clinical optic nerve examination or both. However, we could not find studies comparing two tests, the most robust way to test these instruments, and including a series of consecutive patients at risk as seen in routine care, as we had hoped. Rather, we found studies assessing the performance of a single test in people without glaucoma as opposed to its performance in people with a previous diagnosis of glaucoma. The study search is current to 19 February 2015. 
Key resultsThe performance of all devices was very variable across studies, but overall similar. In 1000 people referred by primary eye care, of whom 200 (20%) have manifest glaucoma, such as in those who have already undergone some functional or anatomic testing by optometrists, the best measures of GDx, HRT and OCT would miss about 60 cases out of the 200 patients with glaucoma (sensitivity 70%), and would incorrectly refer 50 out of 800 patients without glaucoma (at specificity 95%). If prevalence were 5%, for example, in people referred only because of family history of glaucoma, the corresponding figures would be 15 patients missed out of 50 with manifest glaucoma, avoiding referral of about 890 out of 950 non‐glaucomatous people. 
