What can individuals do, especially those with long‐term breathing problems, to avoid the effects of air pollution? 
Review questions 
1. What options are there for people with and without long‐term breathing problems to reduce their exposure to outdoor air pollution? 
2. Do these options have any impact on the health of people with long‐term breathing problems? 
Background to the question 
Outdoor air pollution is a major problem. The World Health Organization (WHO) estimates that more than 90% of people live in places where air pollution is at harmful levels. It is thought that the average person living in Europe loses one year of life due to poor air quality. 
Air pollution tends to have a bigger effect on people who already have breathing conditions, such as asthma and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Some options to help reduce the effects of air pollution include wearing a mask that filters out pollution when outside, avoiding certain roads with a lot of traffic, or using air pollution alerts. It is not clear how well these options work, and there is also a chance that such options might have unwanted effects or be unpleasant. 
We decided to do this piece of research after meeting a group of people with COPD in London. We asked them to tell us their most important questions about their health. Several group members wanted to know if there was any evidence about what they could do themselves to breathe less air pollution. 
Study identification and selection 
We searched multiple online databases for studies that tried different options, such as masks and air pollution alerts. We looked for studies in any language, published anywhere in the world and at any time, and also unpublished information. Two researchers looked at the lists of studies separately and then agreed on which ones we should include. We carried out our most recent search on 16 October 2020. 
Study characteristics 
We included any study which tried an individual‐level intervention for reducing the amount of air pollution people were exposed to. By this we mean something that a person can do themselves, e.g. wearing a mask, or signing up to receive alerts about air pollution levels. We included studies in healthy adults and children, as well as people with long‐term breathing conditions. The main measurements we were interested in were: measures of air pollution exposure; flare‐ups of breathing conditions; hospital admissions; quality of life; and serious unwanted side‐effects. Most studies were funded by a government or charity grant. 
Key results 
We found eleven studies to include in this review. The studies tried several different ways to reduce air pollution exposure: five studies used masks that filter out pollution, five studies used air pollution alerts and education, and one study tested a lower‐level pollution cycle commute. The studies varied in size from 15 people to over 1000. 
Because the studies were all so different, we could not combine the results statistically. We also found that most of the studies could not 'blind' participants or study personnel, which means the people involved in the studies knew whether they were receiving the option that was meant to reduce pollution exposure. This is important because knowing this might influence the way people behave. 
Pollution‐filtering mask and cycle‐route studies 
We found that masks and a lower‐level pollution cycle route might have a small effect on measures that show you have been exposed to air pollution (e.g. blood pressure), but the results from the different studies were varied and we were very unsure. One study reported that people found breathing slightly more difficult while wearing a mask, but none of the other studies specifically recorded unwanted side‐effects. People using a lower‐level pollution cycle route had less irritation in their nose and throat, but it did not affect any other breathing symptoms. 
Air quality alert studies 
One study found that sending people alerts when the air quality is bad may increase the number of times they attend the emergency department or get admitted to hospital. But two other studies which looked at this did not find a clear difference between people who received the alerts and people who did not. 
We found that in some studies people who received air pollution alerts and education about avoiding air pollution reported more 'preventative' behaviours, e.g. avoiding outdoor exercise when air quality was bad. But in other studies, the alerts did not appear to make much difference. 
Another study reported that there was no clear difference in the breathing symptoms between those who received air pollution alerts and those who did not. 
