Amylase in drain fluid for the diagnosis of pancreatic leak after partial removal of the pancreas 
Background 
The pancreas is an organ in the abdomen that secretes pancreatic juice that aids digestion; and it contains cells that produce important hormones such as insulin. Partial removal of the pancreas (pancreatic resection) is performed to remove cancerous and non‐cancerous growths in the pancreas. During this process, new connections (anastomoses) are made between the pancreas and intestines and bile duct (a tube that transports bile from the liver to the intestines). These connections may break down and result in leakage of pancreatic content into the abdomen; this can lead to severe infections within the abdomen and in the blood stream, which can even lead to the death of the patient. 
At the end of the operation, a drainage tube is inserted into the abdomen for two purposes: firstly, the detection of any fluid collections within the abdomen (intra‐abdominal collections), usually resulting from the pancreatic leaks; and secondly, as the treatment of intra‐abdominal collections, so that fluid collection decreases or, at least, does not worsen within the abdomen. The fluids from the drain can be tested for amylase (one of the contents of the pancreatic juice which digests carbohydrates) to find out whether the fluid in the drain is because of a pancreatic leak. If there is a high suspicion of a pancreatic leak, further scans are performed to confirm it or to rule it out. If the leak is major and the patient is unwell, urgent reoperation may be required. Moderate leaks can lead to intra‐abdominal infections: patients may need antibiotics, drugs that decrease pancreatic secretion, insertion of a new drainage tube or repositioning of the existing drainage tube to drain the infected collection, and supportive care to recover. Currently, it is unclear whether measuring the amylase content in the fluid from the drain inserted after pancreatic resection is useful in identifying pancreatic leaks. 
