Homocysteine‐lowering interventions (B‐complex vitamin therapy) for preventing cardiovascular events 
Review questionWe reviewed whether particular vitamins, which lower homocysteine, prevent cardiovascular events such as heart attack and stroke. 
BackgroundCardiovascular disease, which includes heart attacks and strokes, is the number one cause of death worldwide. Many people with cardiovascular disease may not have symptoms, but be at high risk. Diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, smoking and a high cholesterol, as well as a family history of cardiovascular disease are well known risk factors. Elevated total homocysteine levels have recently been identified as a risk factor for cardiovascular disease. Homocysteine is an amino acid, its levels in the blood are influenced by blood levels of B vitamins: cyanocobalamin (B12), folic acid (B9) and pyridoxine (B6). This report is an update from a previous review published in 2015. 
Study characteristicsThe evidence is current to June 2017. We included 15 studies involving 71,422 participants living in countries with or without mandatory supplementation of foods with vitamins. These studies compared different regimens of B vitamins (cyanocobalamin (B12), folic acid (B9) and pyridoxine (B6)) with a control or any other comparison group. The studies were published between 2002 and 2015. 
Key resultsWe found no evidence that homocysteine‐lowering interventions, in the form of supplements of vitamins B6, B9 or B12 given alone or in combination, at any dosage compared with placebo, or standard care, prevented heart attack or reduced death rates in participants at risk of, or living with cardiovascular disease. Homocysteine‐lowering interventions combined with antihypertensive medication had uncertain effects on stroke, approximately 143 people would need to be treated for 5.4 years to prevent 1 stroke. Homocysteine‐lowering interventions compared with placebo or any other comparison did not affect serious adverse events (cancer). 
Quality of evidenceThe quality of evidence from these studies was generally high. 
