Six months therapy for patients with tuberculous meningitis
What is tuberculous meningitis and why is the duration of treatment important? 
Tuberculous meningitis (TBM) is a severe form of tuberculosis, which affects the membranes that cover the brain and spine. It is associated with high rates of death and disability. While there are standardized international recommendations for treating people with pulmonary tuberculosis (tuberculosis of the lungs) for six months with antituberculous therapy, there is a wide range of differing recommendations and practices for treating people with TBM worldwide. Some specialists recommend nine months, 12 months, or even longer treatment for TBM in order to prevent relapse of the disease. Longer regimens have potential disadvantages: they are associated with poor adherence to treatment, which could contribute to increased relapse and development of drug resistance; and increased costs to patients and healthcare systems. 
What the evidence shows 
This Cochrane review assessed the effects of six‐month regimens for treating people with TBM compared with longer regimens. Cochrane researchers examined the available evidence up to 31 March 2016 and they included 18 studies. None of the included studies directly compared people with TBM treated for six months with people with TBM treated for longer. Two of the included studies analysed two groups of participants treated for six months and longer than six months. Therefore, the review authors included information from seven groups of people treated for six months (458 people), 12 groups of people treated for longer than 6 months (1423 people), and one ongoing study of 217 people which was analysed separately due to methodological concerns. Although the treatment regimens in the included studies varied, most participants received standard first‐line antituberculous drugs, and were followed up for more than a year after the end of treatment. The studies included adults and children with TBM, but few participants were HIV‐positive. 
Relapse was an uncommon event across both groups of studies, with only one death attributed to relapse in each group. Most deaths occurred during the first six months of treatment in both groups of studies, which showed that treatment duration did not have a direct impact on the risk of death in these studies. There was a higher death rate in participants treated for longer than six months, and this probably reflects the differences between the participants in the two groups of studies. Few participants defaulted from treatment, and adherence was not clearly documented. 
They found no evidence of high relapse rates in people treated for six months, and relapse was uncommon in all patients irrespective of regimen. There may be differences between the participants treated for six months and longer than six months that could have led to bias (confounding factors), so further research would help determine if shorter regimens are safe. Most of the data were in patients without HIV, and so these inferences do not apply to patients who are HIV‐positive. 
