Comparison of interventions for patients diagnosed with pre‐cancerous changes of the anal canal (anal intraepithelial neoplasia) 
Persistent infection with some types of human papillomavirus (HPV) can cause anal canal intraepithelial neoplasia (AIN), a condition which may become cancerous. HPV is transmitted via skin‐to‐skin contact. There are over 100 different types of HPV virus. At least 30 of these can be sexually transmitted. HPV transmission occurs easily among sexual partners. Despite this, spontaneous clearance of the infection is generally the rule. 
In some cases, HPV may produce genital warts or even some anogenital pre‐malignant or malignant lesions. The latter is especially the case when some HPV types (which are named 'high‐risk' HPV, like HPV types 16, 18, 31 and 33) persist on anogenital mucosa or skin over long periods of time. Viral persistence is very common in an HIV‐positive population, particularly in the anal mucosa of men who have sex with men. The incidence of AIN is reaching epidemic proportions in this population group. AIN is usually asymptomatic. People at risk need to be under prevention screening programs in order to identify and treat those pre‐cancerous lesions. 
To date there is no consensus on AIN management. The most used strategies are ablative treatments. Lesions in the anal canal are treated with cautery, infrared coagulation, laser or cryotherapy. Other available options include surgical excision, topical treatments (imiquimod, trichloroacetic acid, 5‐fluorouracil), interferon and HPV vaccines. We identified many studies that examined all the interventions mentioned above. Only one trial with 53 patients was randomized and placebo‐controlled and could be included in this review. The trial compared self‐application of imiquimod cream in the anal canal with placebo. The analysis of the findings could not demonstrate a definitive superior effect of imiquimod compared with placebo in terms or cure. Some effectiveness could be observed in terms of improvement, with high‐risk stages of AIN being reduced to low‐risk stages. 
We conclude that the available information on AIN treatment does not meet evidence‐based medicine requirements. Future trials should be designed as randomized controlled trials, and should include data about HPV load and the types affecting the treated patients, recurrence rates, progression to anal cancer and quality of life of patients. 
