Are circumcision devices safer or faster when compared to standard surgical circumcisions for males older than 10 years? 
Background 
Male circumcisions have been performed for many centuries and are one of the most common surgical procedures in males. Medical doctors usually perform circumcisions by removing the foreskin found on the penis in a surgical procedure. Some doctors use circumcision devices specifically designed for medical male circumcisions. It is believed that they may save time, and be simpler and safer circumcision methods. But, it is unclear from research evidence whether males circumcised with these devices have better health outcomes. 
Study characteristics 
After a wide search of the literature, we found 18 clinical trials including 5246 males. We looked at information from trials that compared surgical and device‐based circumcision procedures. We compared the complications (negative experiences) that patients had after the circumcision; the amount of time a healthcare provider took to do the circumcision; patient's pain during the day after the procedure and one week afterwards; and the amount of satisfaction patients felt with the procedure. 
Key results 
There was probably little to no difference in serious complications (negative effects) such as admission to hospital or permanent damage to the penis in any trial whether men had a standard surgical circumcision or used a circumcision device. 
There may be slightly more moderate complications that require additional treatment such as stitches or antibiotics for those circumcised with devices, but further evidence may help us understand this better. 
We are unsure whether or not there is a difference in mild complications such as minor bleeding that requires added treatment, but further evidence may help us understand this better. 
The average duration for the standard surgical procedure is about 24 minutes (ranging from 15 minutes to 31 minutes), compared to the use of circumcision devices that has an average duration of about 7 minutes (ranging from 3 minutes to 13 minutes). Therefore, the review found that using a circumcision device saved about 17 minutes compared to standard surgical circumcision. 
There may be less pain during the first 24 hours in patients who were circumcised with the device compared to standard surgical circumcision. There may be little or no difference in pain in the first seven days after circumcision for patients who were circumcised with the device compared to those circumcised with standard surgical methods. 
We found that patients were slightly more satisfied when circumcised with a device compared to those that received a standard surgical circumcision procedure. 
