Minocycline for acne vulgaris: efficacy and safety
Acne is the most common skin disease of adolescence, and in most cases it clears spontaneously. However, in some people it persists in to adulthood. There are many different treatment options, but there is little good evidence to inform doctors and individuals about which to choose. 
Minocycline was the most prescribed antibiotic used to treat acne because it was thought to be better than other options, despite the original version of this review finding no reliable evidence that it was any better than other treatments. Over recent years it has been used less, which was due to serious concerns about its safety, including skin pigmentation, which in some cases is irreversible. It was also more expensive than other treatments. 
Since the first version of this review, minocycline's cost has fallen. In the UK, the daily cost of generic minocycline is now one third the cost of tetracycline. This update was undertaken to identify whether there was any new evidence that might change the conclusions of the original review or provide information on risks associated with minocycline therapy. Twelve new RCTs were identified, making a total of 39 RCTs (6013 participants). 
In summary, there is no evidence to support the first‐line use of minocycline in the treatment of acne. All of the trials showed that, on average, people treated with minocycline experienced an improvement in their acne. However, no study conclusively showed any important clinical difference between minocycline or other commonly‐used therapies. The analysis found that minocycline may act more quickly than oxytetracycline or tetracycline, but there is no overall difference in the end. There is no evidence that it is more effective in acne that is resistant to other therapies, or that the effects last longer. Although it is often claimed that the more expensive once‐daily slow‐release preparation is a more attractive option to teenagers with acne, the evidence in this review does not show it to be any better or safer compared to other oral antibiotics that have to be taken more frequently. 
