Protease activity and its association with future healing of venous leg ulcers
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if there is a link between different levels of protease in venous leg ulcers (open skin wounds on the lower leg caused by problems with the way blood flows through the veins) now and the healing of wounds at some time in the future. Protease is an enzyme, a chemical naturally produced by the body that breaks down proteins and which may affect wound healing. We wanted to know whether having higher protease levels meant that wounds were less likely to heal or to heal more slowly. If so, this could help find the most useful treatments for each person with a leg ulcer. Review authors from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 19 studies. 
Key messages 
At the moment, there is complete uncertainty about any association between protease activity and venous leg ulcer healing, but this review did give pointers on what may be important for future research on natural chemicals present in wounds and their effect on healing. 
What was studied in the review? 
Venous leg ulcers can last weeks, months or years. Leg ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and may affect mobility and quality of life. The usual treatment for venous leg ulcers is compression therapy (e.g. compression (elastic) bandages), but even this does not work for everyone (about a third of people still have wounds that have not healed after six months). We wanted to find out why these wounds often do not heal, and whether there are factors in the wound (called biomarkers) that can indicate which wounds are unlikely to heal. It has been suggested that wounds are slow to heal when there are high levels of protease. In this review, we investigated whether there was any evidence that higher protease levels at the start of a study were associated with slower healing leg ulcers or less healing at a future time point (such as six months). 
In February 2018, we searched for relevant studies that had a reliable design and that investigated links between protease levels and future healing of venous leg ulcers. We found 19 studies involving 646 people. Not all studies reported the age and sex of participants. In those that did, the average age of the participants varied from 51 to 75 years. Eleven studies gave results we could use, involving 13 groups of people. Most people had wounds that had been there for at least three months. 
What were the main results of the review? 
There were many differences among the included studies: for example, how they defined healing, the type of proteases and how they measured them, the types of treatment and how they reported results. This lack of consistency meant we could not combine and compare the results, so we summarised the findings in a general way. 
A bigger problem was that none of the studies had analysed the data appropriately as they did not take into account the impact of age or infection or treatments, and so we could not be sure that it was the protease levels that were important for healing, rather than age or other factors. Most studies were small and could have been better conducted, so it was difficult to be sure how meaningful the results were. Overall, the certainty of the evidence was very low. Further studies are needed to explore the importance of biomarkers for wound healing. 
How up to date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to February 2018.
