Gonadotrophins to induce ovulation in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)
Review question 
To compare the effectiveness and safety of gonadotrophins, hormones that regulate the reproductive system, as a second‐line treatment to stimulate ovulation in women with PCOS who do not ovulate or conceive on clomiphene citrate. 
Background 
Infertility due to ovulation disorders is the most common reason for women to seek counselling or treatment. These women are treated by stimulating ovulation with medication, so‐called 'ovulation induction'. This is usually done with tablets containing clomiphene citrate, as the first line of treatment. If women do not react to this medication, the most common second‐line treatment in these women is ovulation induction with gonadotrophins, which are injectable drugs. Various types of gonadotrophin have been developed: urinary‐derived products, available in purified (FSH‐P), and highly purified (FSH‐HP) form, and human menopausal gonadotrophin, also available in highly purified form (HP‐HMG). Finally, recombinant FSH (rFSH) was developed artificially to obtain even higher purity. 
Women who do react, but do not conceive within six ovulatory clomiphene citrate cycles, may continue with clomiphene citrate or switch to gonadotrophins. 
Study characteristics 
The review includes 15 trials, covering 2387 women. Ten trials compared urinary‐derived gonadotrophins with rFSH. Of these, three trials compared rFSH with human menopausal gonadotrophin, and seven trials compared rFSH with FSH‐HP. Four trials compared FSH‐P with human menopausal gonadotrophin. One trial compared gonadotrophins with continued clomiphene citrate. We found no trials that compared rFSH with FSH‐P, or FSH‐HP with FSH‐P. The evidence is current to January 2018. 
Key results 
There may be little or no difference in live birth, multiple pregnancy, clinical pregnancy, or miscarriage rate between urinary‐derived gonadotrophins and recombinant FSH. We are uncertain whether human menopausal gonadotrophin or urinary follicle stimulating hormone improves pregnancy outcomes in women with PCOS. We are uncertain whether the interventions decrease the incidence of ovarian hyperstimulation syndrome. 
