Therapeutic and social interventions for conversion and dissociative disorders
The aim of this review is to provide a better understanding of what is an effective and useful intervention (treatment) for people with conversion disorders and dissociative disorders. The interventions we look at are non‐medical. Instead they concern therapy or social interventions. Background 
Conversion and dissociative disorders are conditions where people experience unusual neurological symptoms (relating to the nerves and nervous system) or changes in awareness or identity. Neurological disease or other medical conditions cannot explain these clinical signs; often a psychological (affecting or arising in the mind) stressor or trauma is present. The symptoms are real and can cause distress or problems with functioning in everyday life for the people experiencing them. 
This review seeks to help these patients, as well as the clinicians, policy makers and healthcare services working with these disorders. 
Review question 
What is the evidence for psychosocial (relating to social factors and individual thought and behaviour) intervention of conversion and dissociative disorders? 
Search date 
We searched medical databases between 16 July and 16 August 2019.
Results of search 
We read 3048 summaries of articles, resulting in 17 studies that met our criteria for the conditions, the groups of people, the interventions and the types of studies that are the focus of this review. 
The 17 studies had 894 participants, and each study was relatively small. 
More studies are under way, and we will include them in updates of this review.
Study characteristics 
The studies took place in nine different countries worldwide, with adults aged 18 to 80 years, who had a diagnosis of conversion or dissociative disorder for any length of time. Some studies were conducted in either psychiatric or neurological settings. Some included people already in hospital, some included people attending outpatient clinics.  
The interventions were all psychosocial, meaning that they focused on psychological or social interventions such as therapy, hypnosis or simply teaching people about their illness. The number of sessions varied. 
