Lifestyle modifications for people with nonalcohol‐related fatty liver disease
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review?To find out if any lifestyle modifications decrease the effect of nonalcohol‐related fatty liver disease on lifespan, health‐related quality of life, chronic liver disease and its complications, and whether they cause any harms. 
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an accumulation of fat in the liver in people who have no history of significant alcohol consumption, use of medicines, diseases such as hepatitis C virus infection, or other conditions such as starvation that can damage the liver. Fatty liver can lead to liver damage resulting in inflammation (nonalcohol‐related steatohepatitis (NASH)) or liver scarring (liver cirrhosis). Various medical treatments have been tried for the treatment of NAFLD. However, there is currently no evidence that any of them work. Lifestyle modifications have the potential to decrease the liver damage, but whether they achieve this is currently unclear. The authors of this review collected and analysed all relevant randomised clinical trials with the aim of finding out what is the best treatment. 
We found 59 randomised clinical trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups). During analysis of data, the review authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. We also planned to use advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time, usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'. 
Date of literature searchFebruary 2021. 
What we studied in the review?This review looked at people of any sex, age (including children), and ethnic origin, with NAFLD. We excluded studies in people who had previously had liver transplantation. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 13 years to 65 years. Participants were given different treatments, ranging from advice to supervised exercise and special diets, or a combination of these and no intervention, in addition to the public health advice. We wanted to gather and analyse data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, severe liver damage, complications resulting from severe liver damage, liver cancer, and deaths due to liver damage ('clinical outcomes'). 
What were the main results of the review?The 59 studies included a small number of participants (3631 participants). Study data were sparse. Twenty‐eight studies with 1942 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of the trial participants ranged from 1 month to 24 months. For trials that reported clinical outcomes, follow‐up was 2 months to 24 months. Only two small trials did not raise major concerns for bias (deviation from truth because of the way the trials were conducted), and because of this, there is considerable uncertainty about the findings of this review. The review shows that:‐ During a follow‐up period of 2 to 24 months, clinically important outcomes related to NAFLD such as deaths were rare and none of the participants developed liver‐related complications such as liver cirrhosis (scarring of the liver), liver decompensation (complications because of scarring of the liver), liver transplantation, liver cancer, or deaths due to liver disease. This is probably because the trial participants were followed for too short a time.‐ The evidence indicates considerable uncertainty about the effect of the interventions on any of the clinical outcomes.‐ Future well‐designed randomised clinical trials are needed to find out the best lifestyle modifications for people with NAFLD. Liver‐related complications develop over 8 to 28 years. It is therefore unlikely that differences in clinical outcomes will become apparent in trials with less than 5 years to 10 years of follow‐up. Sample sizes also need to be much larger. 
