Using different statistical formats for presenting health information
Examples illustrating the statistical terms used in this summary:  
You read that a study found that an osteoporosis drug cuts the risk of having a hip fracture in the next three years by 50%.  Specifically, 10% of the untreated people had a hip fracture at three years, compared with 5% of the people who took the osteoporosis drug every day for three years.  Thus 5% (10% minus 5%) less people would suffer a hip fracture if they take the drug for 3 years. In other words, 20 patients need to take the osteoporosis drug over 3 years for an additional patient to avoid a hip fracture. "Cuts the risk of fracture by 50%" represents a relative risk reduction. "Five per cent less would suffer a fracture" represents an absolute risk reduction. "Twenty patients need to take the osteoporosis drug over 3 years for an additional patient to avoid a hip fracture" represents a number needed to treat. 
You read that another study found that the risk of suffering a hip fracture over a three year period among people not taking any osteoporotic drug is 10%; another way of expressing this risk would be: 100 of 1000 people not taking any osteoporotic drug will suffer a hip fracture over a three year period. "10%" represents a percentage while "100 of 1000" represents a frequency. 
Summary:  
Health professionals and consumers may change their choices when the same risks and risk reductions are presented using alternative statistical formats. Based on the results of 35 studies reporting 83 comparisons, we found the risk of a health outcome is better understood when it is presented as a natural frequency rather than a percentage for diagnostic and screening tests. For interventions, and on average, people perceive risk reductions to be larger and are more persuaded to adopt a health intervention when its effect is presented in relative terms (eg using relative risk reduction which represents a proportional reduction) rather than in absolute terms (eg using absolute risk reduction which represents a simple difference). We found no differences between health professionals and consumers. The implications for clinical and public health practice are limited by the lack of research on how these alternative presentations affect actual behaviour. However, there are strong logical arguments for not reporting relative values alone, as they do not allow a fair comparison of benefits and harms as absolute values do. 
Please refer to the Cochrane Collaboration Glossary for further explanations of the statistical terms used in this review. 
