Surgical treatment for tubal disease in women due to undergo in vitro fertilisation
Review question 
We reviewed the efficacy and safety of performing surgery on women with known disease of the fallopian tube, particularly hydrosalpinx (a condition in which fluid accumulates in one or both fallopian tubes, leading to poor reproductive success), before in vitro fertilisation (IVF) and intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). We aimed to compare all types of surgery on the fallopian tube with no surgery prior to IVF. These types of surgery include salpingectomy, where one or both fallopian tubes are removed; tubal occlusion, where the fallopian tubes are blocked using metal clips or divided with scissors and electrocautery so that the fluid from existing hydrosalpinges does not reach the cavity of the womb; and ultrasound‐guided aspiration of the hydrosalpingeal fluid through the vagina. Where evidence was available, we also aimed to compare any type of fallopian tube surgery to any other type of fallopian tube surgery. 
Background 
Up to one in five women who suffer with infertility are diagnosed with blockage of one or both fallopian tubes. IVF treatment is used for women with tubal disease, as the eggs and sperm are manipulated outside the body. The resulting embryos are transferred back into the cavity of the womb, without the need for open fallopian tubes. However, research has shown that in cases of tubal blockage, women may develop a condition termed hydrosalpinx, where fluid accumulates inside the tubes and may prevent the successful implantation of embryos created by IVF. Tubal surgery has therefore been suggested to treat hydrosalpinges, as it may prevent the hydrosalpingeal fluid from reaching the cavity of the womb. If this fluid reaches the womb cavity, it may negatively affect the success of assisted conception. 
Study characteristics 
We found 11 randomised controlled trials comparing surgery on the fallopian tube to no tubal surgery in a total of 1386 women with hydrosalpinges prior to IVF. The evidence is current to January 2020. 
Key results 
No studies reported on live birth rates in the main comparison of tubal surgery versus no tubal surgery. Compared to no surgery in the fallopian tube, salpingectomy probably increases the chance of clinical pregnancy. The evidence suggests that if the chance of clinical pregnancy is assumed to be 19% with no salpingectomy, the chance of clinical pregnancy following salpingectomy would be between 27% and 52%. There was a lack of sufficient data to identify an effect of the different types of tubal surgery on adverse events such as surgical complications, miscarriage and ectopic pregnancy. 
