Muscle relaxants for pain management in rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of muscle relaxants on pain in patients with rheumatoid arthritis. 
The review shows that in people with rheumatoid arthritis: 
‐ Muscle relaxants may not improve pain when taken as a single dose or for up to a two week period 
‐ We are uncertain whether muscle relaxants affect functional status because of the very low quality of the evidence 
‐ No trials were found that evaluated whether muscle relaxants affect quality of life
‐ No trials were found that evaluated whether antidepressants affect sleep
‐ We are uncertain whether muscle relaxants affect mood because of the very low quality of the evidence 
We also do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include feeling tired or nauseous, headaches, blurred vision, a dry mouth, sexual dysfunction, or becoming dizzy or constipated. Rare complications may include increased suicidal thinking, liver inflammation, or a reduced white cell count. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what are muscle relaxants? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff, and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. 
Muscle relaxants can be used to treat anxiety and promote sleep, and some people believe they may also reduce pain by acting on the nerves that cause pain, but this remains controversial. Muscle relaxants include drugs that reduce muscle spasm (for example benzodiazepines such as diazepam (Valium), Xanax, Ativan and non‐benzodiazepines such as Skelaxin, Muscol) and drugs that prevent increased muscle tone (baclofen and dantrolene). 
Best estimates of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take muscle relaxants: 
Pain at 24 hours:
‐ Non‐significant result.
Pain at 1 to 2 weeks:
‐ Non‐significant result.
Withdrawal due to adverse events, after 2 weeks:
‐ Non‐significant result.
Total adverse events:
‐ 49 more people out of 100 experienced an adverse event, after 1 to 2 weeks, when they took a muscle relaxant (absolute difference 49%), 
‐ 52 out of 100 people who took a muscle relaxant suffered an adverse event,
‐ 3 out of 100 people who took a placebo suffered an adverse event.
Central nervous system (CNS) adverse events:
‐ 33 more people out of 100 experienced a CNS adverse event, after 1 to 2 weeks, when they took a muscle relaxant (absolute difference 33%), 
