Medicines for reducing inflammation in people with familial Mediterranean fever
Review question 
Can treatments such as colchicine, anakinra, rilonacept, canakinumab, etanercept, infliximab, adalimumab, thalidomide, tocilizumab, interferon‐α and ImmunoGuard (a herbal supplement)) reduce inflammation in people with familial Mediterranean fever (FMF)? 
Background 
FMF is a hereditary inflammatory disease, with symptoms of an attack often including fever over 38 °C, pain and inflammation of the membrane surrounding the chest cavity, the joints or the lungs. We wanted to discover whether these medicines were better for reducing inflammation for people with FMF than placebo (a dummy treatment containing no active medicine) or no treatment, and also to compare these medicines with each other. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 17 August 2021.
Study characteristics 
The review included 10 studies with 312 people with FMF aged between three and 53 years. Eight studies compared five medicines, colchicine, rilonacept, ImmunoGuard, anakinra and canakinumab, with placebo. Participants received one medicine or placebo at random over one to four months. The remaining two studies compared colchicine 1 mg per day once daily with colchicine two or three times daily in children for six to eight months. 
Key results 
We aimed to report on the number of participants experiencing an attack, the timing of attacks, prevention of amyloid A amyloidosis (which is a reaction to a chronic inflammatory disease or infection leading to a build‐up of an abnormal protein called amyloid in organs and tissues throughout the body stopping them working properly), and any side effects of treatment and the levels of a number of markers of inflammation during an attack. Not all studies reported these outcomes. Given the differences in treatments and study design, it was not possible to combine any of the results that we did obtain from these studies.  
One study (15 participants) with oral colchicine 0.6 mg three times a day and another study (63 participants) with subcutaneous (under the skin) canakinumab 150 mg every four weeks for 16 weeks may help to reduce the numbers of people with attacks of FMF. However, oral colchicine 0.5 mg twice a day (20 participants), rilonacept (14 participants) or anakinra (25 participants) did not reduce the numbers of people with attacks. ImmunoGuard (24 participants) did not reduce levels of the markers of inflammation in the blood which are raised during the attack phase of FMF; these include the rate of fall of red blood cells when placed in a test tube, the white blood cell count and the presence of C‐reactive protein (a protein that is produced in the liver). Anakinra and canakinumab reduced C‐reactive protein levels. Colchicine taken once daily and two or three times daily might not result in different outcomes including the timing of attacks, sider effects of the medicine and acute‐phase response indicators. 
