What is the diagnostic accuracy of reflectance confocal microscopy for the detection of basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin in adults? 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) is on its own or compared to inspection of a skin lesion with the naked eye alone or using a hand‐held microscope called dermoscopy for diagnosing two common forms of keratinocyte skin cancer: basal cell carcinoma (BCC) or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) in adults. Review authors in Cochrane included 10 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of BCC or cSCC important? 
There are a number of different types of skin cancer. BCC and cSCC are usually localised skin cancers. Making the correct diagnosis is important because mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. A missed diagnosis of BCC (known as a false‐negative result) can result in the missed BCC growing and causing disfigurement. A missed diagnosis of cSCC is more serious as it could spread to other parts of the body. Diagnosing a skin cancer when it is not actually present (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary biopsy or treatment and can cause discomfort and worry to patients. 
What was studied in the review? 
Microscopic techniques are used by skin cancer specialists to provide a more detailed, magnified examination of suspicious skin lesions than can be achieved using the naked eye alone. Currently, dermoscopy is used by doctors as part of the examination of suspicious skin lesions. RCM is a new microscopic technique to increase the magnification. It is a hand‐held device or static unit using infrared light that can visualise deeper layers of the skin when compared with dermoscopy. Both techniques are painless procedures, but RCM is more expensive, time consuming, and requires additional specialised training. Dermoscopy can be used by general practitioners (GP) whereas RCM is likely to only be used by hospital specialists for people who have been referred with a skin lesion that is suspected to be a skin cancer. We wanted to see if RCM should be used instead of, or as well as, inspection of a skin lesion with the naked eye alone or using dermoscopy to diagnose BCC or cSCC. The accuracy of the test was looked at when used on people with any suspicious skin lesion and also in people with skin lesions that were tricky to diagnose. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 10 studies that included information on 11 groups of people with lesions suspicious for skin cancer. The main results were based on seven of the 11 sets of data: four in any lesion suspicious for skin cancer and three in particularly difficult to diagnose skin lesions. 
For the comparison of RCM versus dermoscopy, we found four sets of data that included 912 suspicious skin lesions. The results suggested that in a group of 1000 people with any suspicious lesion, of whom 125 (12.5%) really do have BCC: 
‐ an estimated 139 people will have an RCM result indicating BCC is present;
‐ of these, 44 (32%) people will not have BCC (false‐positive results) including one person with a melanoma mistaken for a BCC; 
‐ of the 861 people with an RCM result indicating that BCC is not present, 30 (3%) will actually have BCC. 
The review also included three sets of data on people that had 668 particularly difficult to diagnose skin lesions, one comparing RCM to dermoscopy. The results suggested that if RCM was to be used by skin specialists in a group of 1000 people, of whom 150 (15%) really do have BCC: 
‐ an estimated 269 people will have an RCM result indicating BCC is present;
‐ of these, 128 (48%) people will not have a BCC (known as a false‐positive result), including as many as 19 people with melanomas mistaken for BCCs; 
‐ of the 732 people with an RCM result indicating that BCC is not present, nine (1%) will actually have BCC. 
There was not enough evidence to determine the accuracy of RCM for the detection of cSCC in either population group. 
How reliable are the results of this review? 
There was a lot of variation in the results of the studies in this review. Poor reporting of study conduct made assessment of the reliability of studies difficult. It was unclear whether studies were representative of populations eligible for testing with RCM, and test interpretation was often undertaken using images, remotely from the patient and the interpreter blinded to clinical information that would normally be available in practice. Only one study compared the accuracy of dermoscopy and RCM. Most studies were conducted by specialist research teams with high levels of training and experience with RCM, meaning that RCM may appear better than it would be when used in everyday practice. Most studies reported diagnosis based on observers' subjective views, which might not be the same for people using the technique in everyday practice. In nine studies, the diagnosis of skin cancer was made by a skin biopsy or by following up those people over time to make sure they remained negative for skin cancer*. This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had skin cancer. In one study, the absence of skin cancer was made by experts looking at the skin, a method that may be less reliable for deciding whether patients really had skin cancer. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Five studies were carried out in Europe (61%), and the rest in Asia, Oceania, North America, or more than one continent. The average ages of people who took part ranged from 41 to 65 years. The percentage of people with BCC in these studies ranged from 6% to 83% (a middle value of 12% for any suspicious lesion and 15% for difficult to diagnose skin lesions). For studies of RCM used for cSCC, the percentage of people with cSCC ranged between 4% and 13%. In many studies it was not clear what tests people taking part had received before RCM. 
