Acupuncture for hip osteoarthritis
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if acupuncture improves pain and function in people with hip osteoarthritis. We collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 6 relevant studies with 413 people. 
Key messages 
In people with hip osteoarthritis, at close to 8 weeks: 
‐ Acupuncture probably results in little or no difference in pain or function compared to sham acupuncture. 
‐ Acupuncture plus routine primary physician care may improve pain and function compared to routine primary physician care alone. 
‐ We are uncertain whether acupuncture improves pain and function compared to either advice plus exercise or NSAIDs. 
‐ We are uncertain whether acupuncture plus patient education improves pain or function compared to patient education alone. 
What was studied in the review? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints, and the hip is the second most commonly affected joint. Some drug therapies commonly used for treating hip OA have a risk for side effects. Therefore, it is important to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of non‐drug therapies, including acupuncture. According to traditional acupuncture theory, stimulating the appropriate acupuncture points in the body by inserting very thin needles can reduce pain or improve function. 
In clinical trials, sham acupuncture is intended to be a placebo for true acupuncture. In sham acupuncture, the patient believes he or she is receiving true acupuncture, but the needles either do not penetrate the skin or are not placed at the correct places on the body, or both. The purpose of the sham acupuncture control is to determine whether improvements from acupuncture are due to patient beliefs in acupuncture, rather than the specific biological effects of acupuncture. However, there is controversy about sham acupuncture. It is believed that some types of sham acupuncture may produce effects that are similar to the effects of true acupuncture. 
What are the main results of the review? 
After searching for all relevant trials published up to March 2018, we found 6 trials with 413 people. All trials included primarily older participants, with mean age range from 61‐67 years, and mean duration of hip OA pain from 2‐8 years. About two‐thirds of participants were women. 
