Drugs that prevent oral bleeding in people with haemophilia or Von Willebrand disease undergoing minor oral surgery or dental extractions 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about whether antifibrinolytic medicine (drugs that promote blood clotting) such as tranexamic acid or epsilon aminocaproic acid, can prevent oral bleeding in people with haemophilia or Von Willebrand disease undergoing minor oral surgery or dental extractions. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Haemophilia and Von Willebrand disease are inherited bleeding disorders. People with these disorders have an increased risk of bleeding complications during and after oral surgery or dental extractions, even if these are relatively minor and commonly performed. The number of bleeds and the severity of each depend on disease‐related factors (such as the severity of the haemophilia), as well as patient‐related factors (such as inflammation of the gums or blood vessel diseases) and intervention‐related factors (such as the type and the number of teeth extracted or how big the surface of the wound is). Measures such as giving clotting factors directly into the blood stream, are commonly used before, during or after surgery to prevent bleeding complications. However, these measures are costly and have risks such as the formation of inhibitors and the transmission of infections. Therefore, it is important to search for alternative methods to prevent bleeding complications. In routine practice antifibrinolytic medicine is often used before, during and after surgery. However, there is currently no clear scientific evidence for this practice. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 01 March 2019
Trial characteristics 
We did not find any trials of antifibrinolytic medicine to prevent bleeding after minor oral surgery or dental extractions in people with Von Willebrand disease. The review does include two trials published in the 1970s in 59 people with haemophilia undergoing dental extraction. In one trial the people were aged between 13 and 65 years and in the second trial the people had an average age of 34 years. One trial lasted five days and used tranexamic acid; the second trial lasted 10 days and used epsilon aminocaproic acid tablets. Both trials compared the active medicine with a substance that contained no medication (a placebo) in addition to clotting factor concentrates. 
