Ivacaftor (marketed as Kalydeco®), a new specific therapy for cystic fibrosis
Review question 
How does ivacaftor affect clinical outcomes (survival, quality of life and lung function) in people with cystic fibrosis (CF)? 
Background 
In people with CF, airway surfaces do not have enough water because of an abnormal protein; this makes it difficult to clear thick and sticky mucus, which leads to lung infections. Ivacaftor works on the abnormal protein in people with some mutations to allow the airways retain more water and better clear mucus, so fewer lung infections develop. 
Ivacaftor was aimed at people with class III and IV mutations, and has been studied in people with G551D (class III), R117H (class IV) and F508del (class II) mutations. 
Trial characteristics 
We included five trials (447 participants) comparing ivacaftor to placebo (dummy treatment with no active medication) lasting between four and 48 weeks. Three trials enrolled a total of 238 people with at least one copy of the G551D mutation, one trial enrolled 140 people with two copies of the F508del mutation and one enrolled 69 people with at least one copy of the R117H mutation. The evidence is up to date as of 21 November 2018. 
Key results 
F508del mutation 
The trial did not report any deaths or show improvements in lung function, quality of life scores or weight. Cough and pulmonary exacerbations (flare ups of lung disease) were the most reported adverse events when taking both ivacaftor and placebo; there were a similar number of flare ups for both groups. Sweat chloride concentrations were reduced with ivacaftor. 
G551D mutation 
No deaths were reported. Both children and adults taking ivacaftor showed improvements in lung function, but only adults reported higher quality of life scores. People given placebo reported more coughing and experienced more episodes of decreased lung function; more adults taking ivacaftor reported episodes of dizziness. Similar numbers of people taking ivacaftor and placebo delayed the course of medication, or withdrew from the trial altogether, due to side effects (e.g. psychological issues, liver disease, severe breathing problems). There were more serious pulmonary exacerbations whilst taking placebo compared to ivacaftor. Adults taking ivacaftor were admitted to hospital less often and had fewer courses of intravenous antibiotics for exacerbations. Both children and adults and children increased their weight with ivacaftor. There was a drop in sweat chloride concentrations with ivacaftor. 
R117H mutation 
No deaths occurred in this trial. While quality of life scores improved with ivacaftor, lung function did not. Cough and pulmonary exacerbations (flare ups of lung disease) were the most reported adverse events when taking both ivacaftor and placebo; there were a similar number of flare ups for both groups. There was no difference in weight; but as for other mutations there was a reduction in sweat chloride concentration with ivacaftor.  Evidence suggests that ivacaftor is an effective treatment for people (over six years of age) with cystic fibrosis and the G551D mutation, but not for those with the F508del or R117H mutations. 
Quality of the evidence 
In most trials, individuals were put into different treatment groups at random with equal chances of being given either placebo or ivacaftor; no one could work out which treatment the next person would receive, so that healthier people did not receive ivacaftor and make the results seem better. We were not sure whether anyone involved in the trial knew who was receiving which treatment and how this might affect results. No trials reported all results clearly; sometimes they did not report them in a way that we could use in the review and sometimes they did not report the data at all. This affected our certainty regarding the overall results. Information about some side effects was limited as not many people experienced them, therefore, it is difficult to judge whether there was a difference between treatment groups 
We judged the evidence in this review to be moderate to low quality.
Trial funding sources 
All trials were sponsored by Vertex Pharmaceuticals Incorporated. The National Institute of Health (NIH), the Cystic Fibrosis Foundation (CFF) and other non‐pharmaceutical funding bodies also supported the trials. 
