Fluphenazine versus low‐potency antipsychotic drugs for schizophrenia
People with schizophrenia often hear voices or see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). It is a serious, often long lasting, mental illness that can have a severe detrimental effect on all aspects of the sufferer's life. Antipsychotic drugs are the main treatment for the symptoms of schizophrenia. Fluphenazine is an older antipsychotic that is effective in treating the symptoms of schizophrenia. However, most antipsychotics have side effects and when compared to newer antipsychotic drugs, fluphenazine is thought to be more likely to cause serious movement disorders such as involuntary shaking, tremors, muscle stiffness and the inability to sit still. Fluphenazine is also known to lower people’s mood. 
Prescribing low‐strength or low‐potency drugs can help reduce side effects but are often seen as less effective in treating symptoms. 
This review examined the effects of the high‐potency antipsychotic fluphenazine compared with those of low‐potency antipsychotics. A search for randomised trials comparing these types of drugs was carried out in 2010. The review includes seven studies with 1567 participants. Pooled data from two of these trials did not show a clear difference in effectiveness between fluphenazine and low‐potency antipsychotics. 
However, evidence showed fluphenazine produced more movement disorders than low‐potency antipsychotics, whereas the low‐potency drugs were more likely to cause dizziness, drowsiness and sedation, a dry mouth, nausea and sometimes even vomiting. 
The number of included studies was low and the quality of evidence provided was moderate. Therefore, further good quality studies would be needed to draw firm conclusions about the relative effectiveness of fluphenazine compared to low‐potency antipsychotics. 
Important information on service use, going into hospital again (rehospitalisation), costs and quality of life was missing and not reported. 
This plain language summary was written by a consumer Ben Gray from RETHINK mental illness. 
