Do antibiotics prevent surgical site infection after breast cancer surgery?
What was the aim of this review? The aim of this review was to determine whether giving people antibiotics before or during an operation is effective for preventing surgical site infection (SSI) following breast cancer surgery. Researchers from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question and found 11 relevant studies. Randomised controlled trials are medical studies where people are chosen at random to receive different treatments. This type of trial provides the most reliable health evidence. 
Key messages There is moderate certainty evidence that antibiotics given before an operation probably reduce the risk of SSI in patients having surgery for breast cancer. We cannot be certain whether antibiotics given during an operation reduce the risk of developing an SSI, as the available evidence is of very low certainty. 
What was studied in this review? Breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting women and the leading cause of cancer death in women. Surgical removal of all or part of the breast is a common treatment for people diagnosed with breast cancer. However, an infection of the surgical wound is often a complication of the surgery, affecting up to 15% of patients. Having an SSI may require a longer stay in hospital or a repeat operation. Taking antibiotics prior to the operation or during the operation aims to reduce the risk of developing an infection in the surgical wound. 
What are the main results of the review? In August 2018 we searched for randomised controlled trials that investigated whether antibiotics given to people before or during surgery for breast cancer prevent an infection of the surgical site (SSI). This is an update of an existing review and no new relevant studies were found in the most recent search. We analysed the results of 11 studies with 2867 participants. Ten studies looked at giving antibiotics to patients prior to the surgery compared with not giving antibiotics or giving placebo. One study compared giving antibiotics perioperatively (between induction of anaesthetic and the patient leaving the recovery room) to not giving antibiotics. The results showed us that giving antibiotics before surgery probably reduced the risk of developing surgical site infection in patients undergoing breast cancer surgery with moderate certainty. No conclusions can be made from the results of the single study comparing perioperative antibiotics to no antibiotics as the evidence is of very low certainty. It is very uncertain whether there is an effect on incidence of adverse events. Furthermore, the effects on time to onset of infection, readmission to hospital and cost of care remain unclear. The review is not able to establish which antibiotic is most appropriate. 
How up to date is this review? We searched for studies that had been published up to August 2018. 
