Using an antibiotic to prevent MRSA (methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus) infections and related complications in people having surgery 
Most bacterial wound infections after surgery heal naturally or after treatment with antibiotics.  Some bacteria are resistant to commonly‐used antibiotics, e.g. methicillin‐resistant Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA). MRSA infection after surgery is rare, but can occur in wounds (surgical site infections, or SSI), the chest, or bloodstream (bacteraemia), and can be life‐threatening. MRSA SSIs occur in 1% to 33% of people having surgery (depending on the type of operation) and result in extended hospitalisation. 
Antibiotics can be used individually, or combined, and administered for different durations. To identify the best antibiotic(s), or dose pattern, for preventing development of MRSA infection after surgery, we investigated studies that compared different antibiotics with each other, or with no treatment, to prevent MRSA SSIs. We included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs), and set no limits regarding language, or date, of publication, or trial size. Two review authors identified studies and extracted data independently. 
We identified 12 RCTs, with 4704 participants. Eleven trials compared 16 preventative (prophylactic) antibiotic treatments, and one compared antibiotic prophylaxis with no prophylaxis. Generally, MRSA status of the participants prior to surgery was not known. 
Four studies reported deaths (14/1401 participants): approximately 1% of participants died from any cause after surgery, but there were no significant differences between treatment groups. Four trials reported on serious antibiotic‐related adverse events ‐ there were none in 561 participants. None of the trials reported quality of life, length of hospital stay or use of healthcare resources. Overall, 221 SSIs due to any bacterium developed in 4032 people (6%), and 46 MRSA SSIs developed in 4704 people (1%). There were no significant differences in development of SSIs between the 15 comparisons of one antibiotic treatment against another. When antibiotic prophylaxis with co‐amoxiclav was compared with no antibiotic prophylaxis, a significantly lower proportion of people developed SSIs after receiving co‐amoxiclav (74% reduction in all SSIs, and 95% reduction in MRSA SSIs). 
Two trials reported that 19 participants developed MRSA infection in wounds (SSIs), chest, or bloodstream, but there were no significant differences in the proportion of people who developed them between the two comparisons. 
Prophylaxis with co‐amoxiclav decreases the proportion of people developing MRSA infections compared with no antibiotic prophylaxis in people without cancer undergoing surgery for feeding tube insertion into the stomach using endoscopy, although this may be due to decreasing overall infection thereby preventing wounds from becoming secondarily infected with MRSA. There is currently no other evidence that either a combination of prophylactic antibiotics, or increased duration of antibiotic treatment, benefits people undergoing surgery in terms of reducing MRSA infections. Well‐designed RCTs are necessary to assess different antibiotic treatments for preventing MRSA infections after surgery. 
