Electroconvulsive therapy for treatment‐resistant schizophrenia
Review question 
Is electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) a safe and effective treatment for people with schizophrenia who have not responded to their previous treatment? 
Background 
Electroconvulsive therapy involves the induction of a seizure by the administration of an electrical stimulus via electrodes usually placed bilaterally on the scalp. Electroconvulsive therapy was once widely used as a treatment for people with schizophrenia, but its use in now reduced due to the development of antipsychotic medications and concerns regarding possible long‐term adverse effects of ECT. 
Methods and results 
Searches for randomised clinical trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) were conducted in 2015 and updated in 2017. We included 15 studies involving 1285 people with treatment‐resistant schizophrenia. The age range of participants was 18 to 46 years. One study compared adding ECT to standard care with adding sham‐ECT (non‐active ECT); one study compared adding ECT to standard care with adding additional antipsychotic to standard care; and 12 studies compared adding ECT to standard care with standard care. One study compared ECT as the sole treatment with antipsychotics as the sole treatment. 
Our main outcomes of interest were clinically important response to treatment, cognitive functioning, leaving the study early, mental state, general functioning, number hospitalised, and death. None of the included studies reported data for death. The quality of the evidence for each main outcome was mostly very low or low, with the quality of the evidence rated as moderate for only one outcome. This was mostly due to issues with the way the studies were conducted (e.g. participants were not blinded to treatment) and small sample sizes. 
For the comparison of adding ECT to standard care versus standard care, moderate‐quality evidence indicates that adding ECT to standard care may have some beneficial effect on clinical response to treatment. Very low‐quality evidence indicates that adding ECT to standard care may increase the risk of short‐term memory problems and could have a positive effect on Global Assessment of Functioning scores. Low‐quality evidence indicates that adding ECT to standard care may have a positive effect on Brief Psychiatric Rating Scale scores. 
The evidence for the other comparisons was also of low or very low quality, and overall no clear differences between the treatment groups were found. 
