Physical fitness training for stroke survivors
Review question We reviewed the evidence that examines whether physical fitness training is beneficial for health and function in people who have had a stroke. 
Background Physical fitness is important to allow people to carry out everyday activities such as walking and climbing stairs. Physical fitness varies among everyone. For example, fitness in men tends to be a little higher than in women and everyone's fitness declines as we get older and if we become less physically active. In particular, in stroke survivors' physical fitness is often low. This may limit their ability to perform everyday activities and also worsen stroke‐related disability. For this reason fitness training has been proposed as a beneficial approach for people with stroke. However, taking part in fitness training could have a range of other benefits important to people with stroke such as improving cognitive function (thinking skills), improving mood, and quality of life, and it could reduce the chance of having another stroke. 
Study characteristics In July 2018 we identified 75 studies for inclusion in the review. The studies involved a total of 3617 participants at all stages of care including being in hospital or back living at home. Most of the people who took part were able to walk on their own. The studies tested different forms of fitness training; these included cardiorespiratory or 'endurance' training, resistance or 'strength' training, or mixed training, which is a combination of cardiorespiratory plus resistance training. 
Key results We found that cardiorespiratory fitness training, particularly involving walking, can improve fitness, balance and walking after stroke. The improvements in cardiorespiratory fitness may reduce the chance of stroke hospitalisation by 7%. Mixed training improves walking ability and improves balance. Strength training may have a role in improving balance. So, overall it seems likely that people with stroke are likely to benefit the most from training that involves cardiorespiratory training and that involves some walking. However, there was not enough information to draw reliable conclusions about the impact of fitness training on other areas such as quality of life, mood, or cognitive function. Cognitive function is under‐investigated despite being a key outcome of interest for stroke survivors. There was no evidence that any of the different types of fitness training caused injuries or other health problems; exercise appears to be safe. We need more studies to examine the benefits that are most important to stroke survivors, in particular for those with more severe stroke who may be unable to walk. 
Quality of the evidence Studies of fitness training can be difficult to carry out. We have the highest confidence in the estimates of benefit from cardiorespiratory training (moderate/high). The evidence for other training types is moderate to low. However, some consistent findings emerged with different studies all tending to show similar effects in different groups of participants. 
