Botulinum toxin for shoulder pain
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effects of botulinum toxin on shoulder pain. 
The review shows that in people with shoulder pain and muscle spasms, botulinum toxin:
‐may improve pain;
‐may lead to slightly more adverse events;
‐effects on physical function and disability were not reported.
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects of botulinum toxin injections such as difficulty swallowing, muscle soreness, respiratory infections, or a rash.  
What is botulinum toxin and what is shoulder pain? 
Shoulder pain is a common disorder affecting adults around the world. It can be caused by several conditions such as rotator cuff tendinitis, adhesive capsulitis, osteoarthritis of the shoulder and acromio‐clavicular joint disease.  Although shoulder pain can often go away on its own, sometimes it can result in chronic pain and disability. 
Botulinum toxin is produced by the bacteria, Clostridium botulinum. In people with pain and muscle spasms in their shoulder, it may work by blocking muscular nerve signals to the brain and consequently decrease the feeling of pain in the shoulder. Botulinum toxin is given as an injection in the doctor’s office or clinic. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with shoulder pain and muscle spasms after 6 to 24 weeks  
Pain (after 6 to 12 weeks)
‐people who had botulinum toxin injections rated their pain to be 4 on a scale of 0 to 10; 
‐people who had a fake injection (placebo) rated their pain to be 5 on a scale of 0 to 10; 
‐people who had botulinum toxin injections rated their pain to be just over 1 point better after treatment (absolute difference: 12%). 
Side effects (after 24 weeks)
‐33 people out of 100 who had botulinum toxin injections had side effects;
‐24 people out of 100 who had a fake injection (placebo) had side effects;
‐9 more people out of 100 had side effects with botulinum toxin injections (9% absolute difference). 
