Blood transfusions for treating acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease
Review question 
We reviewed the effectiveness of blood transfusions, for treating acute chest syndrome by comparing improvement in symptoms and clinical outcomes against standard care. This is an update of a Cochrane Review first published in 2010 and updated in 2016. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an inherited blood condition affecting over 250 million people worldwide and is particularly common in Sub‐Saharan Africa, South and Central America, Saudi Arabia, India and a number of Mediterranean countries. It is characterized by the presence of sickle‐shaped red blood cells which are capable of blocking the blood vessels causing pain and severe damage to several organs of the body. People with SCD may have the acute onset of chest problems which may include fever, this is called acute chest syndrome. Treatment will depend on the individuals' clinical condition and the severity of the symptoms. Standard treatment consists of supportive care, antibiotics, intravenous fluids and blood transfusion, either simple or exchange, may also be indicated. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 30 May 2019.
Key results 
One study was included in the review, there were two parts to the study, one larger observational study and one randomised trial which was to assess transfusion versus standard care to prevent acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease, while twenty‐six centres were contracted. Only 10 participants were enrolled into the randomised trial. The effects of blood transfusions could not be determined from the trial; there were no data that could be presented or therefore analysed within this review for the very small number of participants enrolled. 
Therefore, this unique study did not show how effective blood transfusions might be for treating acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease. Future research is needed to provide evidence for people to make informed decisions on whether blood transfusions are effective for treating acute chest syndrome in people with sickle cell disease. 
