Comparison of different techniques for planned opening of the trachea
Review question 
We compared different techniques used for planned opening of the trachea in adult participants hospitalized in an intensive care unit (ICU). 
Background 
The term 'tracheotomy' refers to the surgical opening of the trachea (windpipe) through the front of the neck. The resulting opening between the trachea and the outer air space (stoma, tracheostomy) allows the person to breathe when the usual route for breathing is somehow obstructed or impaired. Tracheostomy is also necessary for persons in an ICU who are being ventilated by a machine for a long time (i.e. weeks). It is one of the most commonly performed surgical procedures in intensive care medicine. Both surgical techniques (surgical opening of the trachea) and percutaneous techniques (opening of the trachea with plastic dilators) are widely used in current practice. Compared to surgical tracheostomies, percutaneous tracheostomies seem to have a number of potential advantages. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2015. We included 20 studies from 1990 to 2011, enrolling 1652 adult participants hospitalized in the ICU, who were scheduled for planned tracheotomy. None of the studies were funded. 
Key results 
The application of percutaneous techniques, does not reduce the rate of death, of serious, life‐threatening complications (e.g. injuries to the windpipe or the oesophagus), major bleeding or problems with the tracheostomy tube (blockage, accidental loss, difficult tube change). There was some evidence that using percutaneous techniques results in fewer cases of wound infections (‐ 76%) and unfavourable scarring (‐ 75%). 
Quality of the evidence The quality of the evidence varied by outcome from moderate (wound infection) to low (death, serious complications, unfavourable scarring, problems with the tracheostomy tube) and to very low (major bleeding). Reasons for the limitations are: great differences among the studies, results not similar across the studies, and not enough data. 
Conclusions 
Based on the available data, we conclude that percutaneous tracheostomies offer benefits for some of the outcomes when compared with surgical tracheostomies. However, because several groups of participants were excluded from the included studies (i.e. people with unfavourable neck structure, bleeding disorders or emergency situations), the number of participants in the included studies was limited, long‐term outcomes were not evaluated, and data on participant‐relevant outcomes were either sparse or not available for each study, the results of this meta‐analysis are limited and cannot be applied to all critically ill adults. 
