Financial conflicts of interests and results, conclusions, and quality of systematic reviews 
Patient treatment practices are often based on clinical research. Systematic reviews are a core type of such clinical research. When several similar studies (i.e. studies investigating the same research questions using similar methods) have been conducted, these can be identified and analysed in a systematic review. Systematic reviews thereby summarise existing studies and provide an overview of a specific research field. Thus, systematic reviews may have a major influence on decisions about patient care and it is essential that such reviews are trustworthy. 
Sometimes, systematic reviews are funded by companies with a financial interest in the review's results and conclusions, for example because they produce a drug or device investigated in the review. At other times, systematic reviews are carried out by researchers with a personal financial interest in a specific result, for example when the researcher acts as a consultant for the company producing an intervention that is assessed in the review. These financial conflicts of interest may impact on how systematic reviews are conducted and reported. Our Cochrane Methodology Review focuses on financial conflicts of interest related to drug or device companies in systematic reviews. Our primary aim was to investigate the degree to which systematic reviews with financial conflicts of interest present review results and make conclusions that are more favourable than systematic reviews without such financial conflicts of interest. Our secondary aim was to investigate the degree to which systematic reviews with financial conflicts of interest differ in methodological quality from systematic reviews without such financial conflicts of interest. 
We found 10 studies comparing systematic reviews with and without financial conflicts of interest. Based on two of these studies, we found no evidence of a difference in review results between systematic reviews with and without financial conflicts of interest. Based on seven studies, we found that systematic reviews with financial conflicts of interest more often had conclusions favourable towards the experimental intervention (risk ratio (RR): 1.98, 95% confidence interval (CI): 1.26 to 3.11). Also, based on four studies, systematic reviews with financial conflicts of interest tended to have lower methodological quality (RR for 11 dimensions of methodological quality spanned from 1.00 to 1.83). 
