Psychological therapies for the management of migraine in adults
Bottom line 
There was an absence of good‐quality evidence that psychological therapy was effective or harmful in managing frequent migraine immediately following treatment or in the longer term. 
Background 
Migraine is a condition of the nervous system that is common and associated with lower quality of life and disability. Although medications can help manage migraine, they do not work for all individuals and some individuals experience negative side‐effects (adverse events). Numerous psychological therapies have been evaluated for the management of migraine in adults. Psychological therapies deliver skills such as education, relaxation, or coping strategies to help adults change their behaviour or thoughts about migraine, to try to reduce their migraine‐related symptoms. 
Review question 
We evaluated psychological interventions for adults with chronic or episodic migraine with and without aura (a warning sign that precedes and predicts a migraine). We compared individuals who received psychological therapy for migraine with a 'control' group. Control groups included usual treatment ('standard care'), or waiting to receive treatment, or receiving another type of intervention such as education. We extracted data on the frequency of migraines (i.e. number of days with migraines, or number of migraines, in the month following treatment) as our primary outcome. We also extracted data on the number of responders (people with a 50% reduction in migraine frequency), migraine intensity, migraine duration (number of hours of migraine per day), migraine medication usage, mood, quality of life, and migraine‐related disability. We recorded instances of harm (adverse events) associated with treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We searched databases in July 2018 and found 21 studies with 2482 participants. Most studies investigated one of three interventions, namely a form of psychological therapy called cognitive‐behaviour therapy (CBT), which teaches skills to change thoughts and behaviours. Skills include coping strategies, or biofeedback or relaxation, which teaches people to reduce their tension either by concentrating on relaxing exercises or through a machine that gives feedback about muscle tension or body temperature. The remaining psychological treatments were examined in single studies; they included writing about emotions and eye movement desensitisation, and reprocessing, which uses eye movements to help people accept their pain and other negative experiences. We were interested in outcomes following treatment and at the longest available follow‐up. 
Key results 
We found no evidence that psychological treatments resulted in less migraine frequency in the four weeks following treatment. However, we could only include four studies in this analysis that were not high quality. Four studies reported the proportion of people whose migraines reduced in frequency by 50% or more, and in those studies, people who received psychological treatment were twice as likely to respond to treatment (i.e. 50% reduction in migraine frequency) as those in the control group. 
There was no evidence that psychological treatments affected migraine intensity, medication use for migraine, mood or quality of life. Only two studies assessed adverse events, and so we were unable to draw conclusions. 
