Early surfactant administration with brief ventilation vs. selective surfactant and continued mechanical ventilation for preterm infants with or at risk for respiratory distress syndrome 
Respiratory distress syndrome (RDS) is the single most important cause of illness and death in preterm infants. Common treatments for RDS include supplemental oxygen and nasal continuous positive airway pressure (NCPAP). For severe RDS, surfactant administration during mechanical ventilation is used. Although treating RDS with surfactant improves clinical outcomes, mechanical ventilation can cause lung injury in preterm infants with RDS and contribute to the development of chronic lung disease (oxygen requirements at 36 weeks) and bronchopulmonary dysplasia (requirement for supplementary oxygen at 28 days, BPD). An important question is whether giving early surfactant with planned brief mechanical ventilation followed by prompt extubation (to NCPAP) is better than selectively giving surfactant when RDS has worsened causing respiratory insufficiency necessitating mechanical ventilation. The review authors identified six randomized trials reported between 1994 and 2006 that met the selection criteria for this review. A strategy of early surfactant administration with extubation to NCPAP was associated with significant reductions in the need for mechanical ventilation, fewer air leak syndromes (such as pneumothorax) and lower incidence of BPD compared with a strategy of later selective surfactant administration and continued mechanical ventilation in infants with RDS. The findings suggest that a lower treatment threshold (oxygen requirement < 0.45) confers greater advantage than does a higher treatment threshold (oxygen requirement > 0.45). 
An early surfactant therapy strategy results in a greater number of infants receiving surfactant and so more infants being exposed to the potential risks of intubation and surfactant administration. Although no complications of surfactant administration were reported in the studies reviewed, infants treated with an early surfactant therapy strategy tended to have a higher prevalence of patent ductus arteriosus (PDA). Two trials were terminated prior to achieving the targeted enrollment when the need for mechanical ventilation was found to be significantly different between groups at a scheduled interim analysis. Two other trials experienced slow enrollment leading to reduced numbers. 
