Droperidol for psychosis‐induced aggression or agitation
Is droperidol effective for managing people who are aggressive or agitated due to psychosis? 
Background 
People with psychosis can experience symptoms such as hallucinations (seeing or hearing things that are not there) or delusions (belief in things that are bizarre or obviously not true). These symptoms are often disturbing and frightening, and can lead to people with psychosis becoming very disturbed, violent or agitated. Droperidol is one of the medicines normally used to help calm (tranquillise) people in this situation. Previously, the use of this drug was based on results from small clinical trials with no firm conclusion regarding its effects. Larger trials were needed. 
Searching 
In 2015, the Information Specialist of the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group updated previous searches of their specialised register of studies. The review authors identified and screened 21 records. 
Description of studies 
Six randomised controlled studies are now included in the review. All the studies randomised people who were aggressive or agitated due to psychosis to receive either droperidol or placebo (a pretend medicine), haloperidol, olanzapine or midazolam. The size of the studies ranged from 40 to 221 participants. All took place in within a hospital. Four of the six studies were under two hours of duration. 
Main results 
Compared to placebo, droperidol was more effective at tranquillising agitated participants 30 minutes after taking it. Similar results were found for tranquillisation when droperidol was compared with haloperidol but this effect was less clear, and not evident when droperidol was compared to midazolam or olanzapine. Droperidol did not cause more side effects than the other drugs in the studies. The studies did not look at costs. 
Review authors' conclusions 
Although we could only include six studies, they provided high‐quality evidence suggesting that droperidol is effective and can be used to control people with very disturbed and aggressive behaviours caused by psychosis. 
