Pain in patients with inflammatory arthritis and gastrointestinal or liver problems
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of pain relieving drugs for people with inflammatory arthritis plus stomach or gut disease, or liver disease. 
The review shows the following in people with inflammatory arthritis plus stomach or gut disease, such as hernia or stomach or intestinal ulcers or previous bleeding from the stomach or intestine, or patients with liver diseases such as hepatitis or fatty liver: 
‐ We are uncertain if naproxen (Aleve®, Naprosyn®) produced more side effects in people with inflammatory arthiritis plus stomach or intestine disease, compared with people with inflammatory arthritis without stomach or intestine disease, because only a single study giving low quality evidence was available. 
‐ No studies were found that looked at pain relief.
‐ No studies were found that looked at other pain‐relieving drugs.
‐ No studies were found in people with conditions other than rheumatoid arthritis.
‐ No studies were found in people with inflammatory arthritis plus liver disease.
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications, particularly for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects associated with high dose paracetamol include liver problems. Aspirin and NSAIDs may cause stomach, kidney or heart problems. 
What is inflammatory arthritis and what is pain management 
Inflammatory arthritis is a group of diseases that includes rheumatoid arthritis, ankylosing spondylitis, psoriatic arthritis and other types of spondyloarthritis. When you have inflammatory arthritis your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. In rheumatoid arthritis, the small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. In contrast, in ankylosing spondylitis the joints of the spine are the most affected. There is no cure for inflammatory arthritis at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. 
Paracetamol, or acetaminophen, is used to relieve pain but does not affect swelling; non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as ibuprofen, diclofenac, naproxen and COX‐2s (for example celecoxib) are used to decrease pain and swelling. Opioids, such as codeine‐containing Tylenol®, hydromorphone (Dilaudid®), oxycodone (Percocet®, Percodan®), morphine and the opioid‐like drug tramadol are powerful pain‐relieving substances. Other drugs have some pain‐relieving properties and can therefore be used to control pain. This is the case of the so‐called neuromodulators, such as antidepressants (for example fluoxetine, paroxetine, amitriptyline), anticonvulsants (for example gabapentine, pregabaline) or muscle relaxants (for example diazepam). 
