Advice on diet for adults with malnutrition that is the result of disease
Review question 
Can dietary advice with or without oral nutritional supplements (ONS) improve disease‐related malnutrition in adults? 
Background 
Ill people often have a poor appetite or feel sick because of medicines or other treatments and eat less than usual. Eating less over a longer time can cause weight loss, malnutrition, more health problems and death. Healthcare professionals may offer advice about dietary changes to help people to re‐establish good eating habits. They might recommend high‐protein and high‐energy foods so that these people can gain weight and improve their nutrition and general health. It is common for sick people to be offered ONS with or without advice about changing their food intake. 
To find the best answer to our review question, we looked for studies that compared five different treatment options: dietary advice compared with no advice; dietary advice compared with ONS; dietary advice plus ONS compared with dietary advice; dietary advice plus ONS if appropriate compared with no dietary advice; and dietary advice plus ONS compared with no dietary advice and no ONS. To make these comparisons fair, we looked for randomised controlled trials (RCTs), where the people taking part had an equal chance (like the flip of a coin) of being in either group that was being compared.  
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 01 March 2021.
Study characteristics 
We found 94 studies (with a total of 10,284 people) that we could include in our review. Although older people have a higher risk of malnutrition, the people in these studies ranged from 17 to over 80 years of age and they were living either at home, in the community, or in hospital. They had a wide range of health conditions, including cancer, dementia and kidney disease. The studies reported on the participants for the length of their hospital stay or in some people in the community for up to six and a half years. 
Key results 
There is no evidence that any of the treatments affected how long many of the people in the studies lived. They did report some positive changes in energy intake (measured in calories), protein intake, weight, muscle bulk and quality of life. There were some reductions in complications and the length of time spent in hospital. However, there is no clear evidence about which treatment is the most helpful or the time it takes to achieve any benefit. Few studies reported results separately for men and women and so we cannot comment on whether there were any overall differences by sex. No studies recorded information about adverse events (harms) so we cannot offer a summary about possible harms. 
More research is needed to work out the best ways to help people who are losing weight because of illness in order to improve their clinical outcomes and quality of life. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall we rated the certainty of the evidence as low for most results, which means that we cannot be confident about the findings we report. There were several reasons for this. Some of the treatment comparisons that we looked at had only a few studies  and some of those had small numbers of participants. There were problems with the design of some studies that may have affected the results. Some people knew which treatment they were receiving. We think this may influence the way that they reported some changes, e.g. their energy and protein intake, body weight and quality of life. We think that the way the decision about which group a person went into at the start of the study may have affected the  results for some outcomes, e.g. change in weight, change in muscle bulk and mortality. 
