Different dosage schedules for reducing damage to the heart in people with cancer receiving anthracycline chemotherapy 
Review questionWe reviewed the evidence of different anthracycline dosage schedules to cause damage to the heart in people with cancer of all ages receiving anthracycline chemotherapy. We also looked at tumour response, participant survival, adverse effects other than damage to the heart, and quality of life. 
BackgroundAnthracyclines are one of the most effective treatments for various types of cancer. Unfortunately, there is a risk of heart damage depending on the total dose a patient has received. In an effort to prevent heart damage, different anthracycline dosage schedules such as different infusion durations or different individual peak doses (the maximal dose received in one week) are being used. 
Study characteristicsThe evidence is current to December 2015. 
We found 11 studies: 7 evaluated different infusion durations (803 participants), and 4 evaluated different peak doses (5280 participants). Participants had different types of cancer. 
Key resultsFor the use of different anthracycline infusion durations, the authors found that an anthracycline infusion duration of six hours or longer reduces the risk of clinical heart failure (for example shortness of breath or leg oedema), and it seems to reduce the risk of subclinical heart failure (that is heart damage diagnosed for example by an echocardiography in people without symptoms). Only a small amount of data was available for children and individuals with leukaemia, since most studies evaluating different anthracycline infusion durations were performed in adults with solid tumours. 
Based on the currently available evidence, we are not able to favour either a doxorubicin peak dose of less than 60 mg/m2 or 60 mg/m2 or more. There was not enough high‐quality evidence available for the use of other anthracycline peak doses to be able to draw conclusions. No data were available for children and individuals with leukaemia. 
