What is the diagnostic accuracy of reflectance confocal microscopy for the detection of basal or squamous cell carcinoma of the skin in adults? 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate reflectance confocal microscopy (RCM) is on its own or compared to inspection of a skin lesion with the naked eye alone or using a hand‐held microscope called dermoscopy for diagnosing two common forms of keratinocyte skin cancer: basal cell carcinoma (BCC) or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) in adults. Review authors in Cochrane included 10 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of BCC or cSCC important? 
There are a number of different types of skin cancer. BCC and cSCC are usually localised skin cancers. Making the correct diagnosis is important because mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. A missed diagnosis of BCC (known as a false‐negative result) can result in the missed BCC growing and causing disfigurement. A missed diagnosis of cSCC is more serious as it could spread to other parts of the body. Diagnosing a skin cancer when it is not actually present (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary biopsy or treatment and can cause discomfort and worry to patients. 
What was studied in the review? 
Microscopic techniques are used by skin cancer specialists to provide a more detailed, magnified examination of suspicious skin lesions than can be achieved using the naked eye alone. Currently, dermoscopy is used by doctors as part of the examination of suspicious skin lesions. RCM is a new microscopic technique to increase the magnification. It is a hand‐held device or static unit using infrared light that can visualise deeper layers of the skin when compared with dermoscopy. Both techniques are painless procedures, but RCM is more expensive, time consuming, and requires additional specialised training. Dermoscopy can be used by general practitioners (GP) whereas RCM is likely to only be used by hospital specialists for people who have been referred with a skin lesion that is suspected to be a skin cancer. We wanted to see if RCM should be used instead of, or as well as, inspection of a skin lesion with the naked eye alone or using dermoscopy to diagnose BCC or cSCC. The accuracy of the test was looked at when used on people with any suspicious skin lesion and also in people with skin lesions that were tricky to diagnose. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 10 studies that included information on 11 groups of people with lesions suspicious for skin cancer. The main results were based on seven of the 11 sets of data: four in any lesion suspicious for skin cancer and three in particularly difficult to diagnose skin lesions. 
For the comparison of RCM versus dermoscopy, we found four sets of data that included 912 suspicious skin lesions. The results suggested that in a group of 1000 people with any suspicious lesion, of whom 125 (12.5%) really do have BCC: 
‐ an estimated 139 people will have an RCM result indicating BCC is present;
‐ of these, 44 (32%) people will not have BCC (false‐positive results) including one person with a melanoma mistaken for a BCC; 
‐ of the 861 people with an RCM result indicating that BCC is not present, 30 (3%) will actually have BCC. 
The review also included three sets of data on people that had 668 particularly difficult to diagnose skin lesions, one comparing RCM to dermoscopy. The results suggested that if RCM was to be used by skin specialists in a group of 1000 people, of whom 150 (15%) really do have BCC: 
‐ an estimated 269 people will have an RCM result indicating BCC is present;
‐ of these, 128 (48%) people will not have a BCC (known as a false‐positive result), including as many as 19 people with melanomas mistaken for BCCs; 
