Inserting a contraceptive implant soon after childbirth
Review question 
Cochrane authors compared the initiation rate, effectiveness, and side effects of insertion of a contraceptive implant (implant for birth control) soon after childbirth versus delayed insertion at postpartum visit. 
Background 
The spacing of pregnancies has a positive impact on health of both pregnant women and newborns. The contraceptive implant is a highly effective progestin‐only method of birth control. Normally, a contraceptive implant is provided at the first (usually at six weeks) postpartum visit. However, some women do not come back, or have sex before this check‐up visit. The insertion of a contraceptive implant after childbirth but before hospital discharge is worthy of consideration; it is convenient in terms of time and place, and may increase the number of women that use this method. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised studies up to 28 October 2016. We looked at whether insertion of contraceptive implant soon after childbirth or when women come back for the first postpartum check‐up affected use of this contraception method. We included three studies with a total of 410 women. 
Key results 
Use of a contraceptive implant was higher when it was applied right after childbirth than when it was applied four to six weeks later. There appeared to be little or no difference between the groups in the continuation rate of contraceptive implant use at 6 months. It was unclear whether there was any difference between the groups in continuation of contraceptive use at 12 months or in the unintended pregnancy rate at 12 months. 
Although vaginal bleeding and other adverse effects in the first six weeks after birth including nausea, hair loss, hirsutism, headache, and acne seem to be higher in women that receive this method a few days after childbirth rather than four to six weeks later, this finding however cannot be definitely concluded as all participants knew the nature of the intervention they received (were not blinded) and the reports of these adverse effects were not objectively assessed. It was unclear whether there was any difference between the groups at 12 months in heavy, irregular vaginal bleeding or associated severe cramping, rates of unintended pregnancy, or in measures of participants' satisfaction. Nor was it clear whether there was any difference in breastfeeding rates at 6 months. The included studies were conducted in the USA, and generalisation of these findings to other population or settings should be applied with caution. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, the quality of the evidence was moderate to very low. The main limitations were imprecision and risk of bias (related to lack of blinding and to attrition). Further good quality, well‐designed randomised controlled trials will provide additional information. 
