Surgical management of chronic pelvic pain in women
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out whether there are any effective and safe surgical treatments for women with chronic pelvic pain. We wanted to understand how effective these surgical treatments are compared to alternative treatments or no treatment at all. 
Background 
Chronic pelvic pain in women is a common and debilitating condition. Definitions vary, but generally it is defined as pelvic pain for a period of six months or greater. There are many causes of chronic pelvic pain, but these can sometimes be difficult to identify. Regardless of identifying any or the specific cause, treatment is aimed at reducing symptoms. Occasionally, a diagnostic surgery with insertion of laparoscope is completed (inserting a telescope into the belly to visualise pelvic structures). When identifiable causes of chronic pelvic pain are present, such as endometriosis (tissue similar to the lining of the womb that starts to grow in other places) or adenomyosis (tissue similar to the lining of the womb is found deep in the muscle of the womb), there may be different treatment strategies necessary than when there are no obvious problems. When no disease is identified at the time of a diagnostic surgery despite chronic pelvic pain, we may consider various surgical procedures to treat the chronic pelvic pain, including removing scar tissue originating from infection or previous operation (called adhesiolysis), or cauterising (heat treatment) or excising (removing) the nerves carrying the pain sensation from pelvis to brain (called uterosacral ligament ablation/resection). Despite it being unclear how effective these surgical treatments are, they are being offered and done. 
What we found 
We found four randomised controlled trials (a type of study that gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of treatment) involving 216 women with chronic pelvic pain and no identifiable cause. The main outcome measures were pain scores after surgery and quality of life. The evidence is current to 23 April 2021. 
Key results 
Adhesiolysis versus no surgery/diagnostic laparoscopy 
We are uncertain of the effect of adhesiolysis compared with diagnostic laparoscopy on pain scores at three, six and 12 months after surgery. Pain was measured using a visual analogue score (VAS), which is a widely used rating scale where the person ranks pain from 0 (no pain) to 100 (worst pain). Adhesiolysis may improve health‐related quality of life at six months after surgery when compared to diagnostic laparoscopy. 
Laparoscopic uterosacral ligament ablation versus other treatment 
We are uncertain of the effect of laparoscopic uterosacral ligament ablation (LUNA) versus diagnostic laparoscopy or vaginal uterosacral ligament resection, on pain scores measured by VAS at three, six and 12 months. Women undergoing LUNA may require more pain relief after surgery than those undergoing alternative treatments. 
No studies in either comparison reported on psychological outcomes.
Certainty of evidence 
The certainty of the evidence ranged from very low to low. Limitations included poor reporting of study methods and imprecision (too few events, too few included studies) for some comparisons. 
