Magnesium for treating sickle cell disease
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of the effect of intravenous (given into a vein) magnesium and oral (taken by mouth) magnesium on the frequency of painful crises (sickle cell crises with severe pain due to blockages of the blood supply to bones, joints, lungs, liver, spleen, kidney, eye or central nervous system), length of hospital stay and quality of life in people with different types of sickle cell disease. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is a relatively common inherited blood disease. Its symptoms include the rapid onset of painful crises, which can lead to increased rates of hospital admission. The likely cause is that deformed sickle‐shaped red blood cells put stress on blood vessels which blocks them and leads to vaso‐occlusive crises. Vascular function is impaired in people with sickle cell disease. It is known that magnesium can widen blood vessels and, when regularly administered, it improves the amount of liquid in red blood cells and can help stop their shape deforming. Intravenous magnesium can cause mild to moderate side effects after administration e.g. nausea, vomiting, feeling of warmth, low blood pressure, etc.; and oral magnesium supplementation can cause mild side effects e.g. diarrhoea and abdominal cramps. We wanted to find out whether short‐term intravenous magnesium and long‐term oral magnesium is better than a placebo (dummy treatment with no magnesium) or no magnesium treatment, for reducing painful crises, shortening the length of stay in hospital and for improving quality of life. We were also interested in side effects of treatment with magnesium and some blood tests. This is an updated version of the review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 03 February 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review included five studies with a total of 386 people with sickle cell disease aged between four and 53 years. Two studies (306 people) compared intravenous magnesium to a placebo (in this case saline (salty water)) in people admitted to hospital as an emergency because of pain and lasted until they were discharged (less than four weeks). Two of the three longer‐term studies compared oral magnesium pidolate with placebo and the third study compared hydroxyurea and magnesium pidolate to each other and to placebo but we have only included the results of the comparison of magnesium pidolate to placebo). 
