The effects of singing on lung function and quality of life in children and adults with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of the effects of using singing as an add‐on treatment in children and adults with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
People with cystic fibrosis are at risk of chest infections due to abnormally thick mucus in their airways. Airway clearance is therefore an important part of managing the condition. Increasing anecdotal reports suggest that singing may support lung function and enhance quality of life in people with cystic fibrosis. We searched for trials using the standard search methods of the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders Group, and conducted extensive searches in other relevant databases and publications. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 07 January 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review includes one study with 40 children with cystic fibrosis aged between seven and 17 years of age. This study compared a specially designed singing intervention with other non‐physical leisure activities (recreation) and children were selected for the singing or the recreation program randomly. The study lasted two weeks and children were followed up for between six and eight weeks. The study assessed the impact of singing on respiratory muscle strength, quality of life and lung function tests. 
Key results 
Participants from both the singing and recreation groups reported some improvement in quality of life measurements. Participants in the singing group showed a greater increase in maximal expiratory pressure (a substitute measure of respiratory muscle strength test), while there was no improvement in this outcome for those in the recreation group. No adverse events were reported. There is currently not enough evidence to assess the effect of singing on clinical outcomes in people with cystic fibrosis. Future studies using robust methods are needed to assess the possible effects of singing for people with cystic fibrosis 
Quality of the evidence 
The included study was limited by the small number of participants (only 51 participants enrolled and only 40 were analysed) and a high drop‐out rate (21%). We also think the fact that the young people who were enrolled in the study were keen to sing, could have affected the study results. 
