Formula versus donor breast milk for feeding preterm or low birth weight infants
Review question 
When a mother's own breast milk is not available, does feeding preterm or low birth weight infants with formula rather than donor breast milk affect digestion, growth and the risk of severe bowel problems? 
Background 
Preterm infants often find artificial formula more difficult to digest than human milk, and concerns exist that formula could increase the risk of severe bowel problems. If preterm infants are fed with donor breast milk (when a mother's own breast milk is insufficient or unavailable), rather than an artificial formula, this might reduce the risk of these problems. Donor breast milk, however, is more expensive than many formulas, and may not contain sufficient amounts of key nutrients to ensure optimal growth for preterm or low birth weight infants. Given these concerns, we have reviewed all of the available evidence from clinical trials that compared formula versus donor breast milk for feeding preterm or low birth weight infants. 
Study characteristics 
We found 12 completed trials (involving 1871 infants). Most trials, particularly those trials conducted more recently, used reliable methods. Evidence is up to date as of 3 May 2019. 
Key results 
The combined analysis of data from these trials shows that feeding with formula increases rates of growth during the hospital stay, but is associated with a higher risk of developing the severe gut disorder called 'necrotising enterocolitis'. There is no evidence of an effect on survival or longer‐term growth and development. 
Conclusions 
The currently available evidence suggests that feeding preterm infants with artificial formula (rather than donor breast milk when mother's own breast milk is not available) is associated with faster rates of growth, but with a near‐doubling of the risk of developing necrotising enterocolitis. Further, larger trials could provide stronger and more precise evidence to help clinicians and families make informed choices about this issue. Currently, four such trials (involving more than 1100 infants) are ongoing internationally, and we plan to include the data from these trials in this review when these become available. 
