Does enhanced external counterpulsation reduce symptoms of chronic and refractory angina pectoris? 
Angina pectoris is a form of cardiovascular disease.   Symptoms include episodic tightness in the chest accompanied by pain in the jaw, back, shoulder or arm and normally last for between 1 to 5 minutes.  Angina is classified according to its severity and may be treated with drugs, lifestyle modifications, education and counselling.  Refractory angina is a form of angina that does not respond well to conventional treatments and patients experience limitations in their ability to undertake physical activity.  
Enhanced external counterpulsation is a treatment that involves placing cuffs around the legs of a patient, which when inflated assist blood to return to the heart and as the cuffs deflate allow blood vessels to return to normal.  It is believed that this treatment may alleviate some of the symptoms of angina.  Treatment consists of one hour daily sessions for a period of up to seven weeks and is performed in a medically supervised environment. 
This review studied the effectiveness and safety of enhanced external counterpulsation in improving health outcomes for patients aged 18 years or over with chronic stable and refractory angina (graded Canadian Cardiovascular Society angina class III to IV).  The review compared outcomes in patients treated with enhanced external pulsation to patients treated with a sham treatment.  Searches found over 300 potentially eligible studies however only one study met most of the inclusion criteria.  The study used in the review involved 139 participants in the United States.  Participants in the study were treated with hour long sessions, either once or twice daily of active enhanced external counterpulsation or inactive enhanced external counterpulsation (sham).  Limited data was available on the health related outcomes of patients participating in the study; however health related quality of life outcomes were larger in the enhanced external counterpulsation patients than patients receiving the inactive (sham) treatment; but the improvement was only significant in three of nine parameters.  Angina pain counts decreased in the patients receiving enhanced external counterpulsation and this result was statistically significant.  
55% of patients receiving treatment reported adverse events compared to 26% in the control group with approximately half of these events considered as device‐related.  Adverse events reported included leg and back pain and skin abrasions.  
