Continuous chest compression versus interrupted chest compression for cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) of non‐asphyxial out‐of‐hospital cardiac arrest (OHCA) 
Background 
A cardiac arrest is when the heart stops pumping blood around the body. It is a major cause of death worldwide. A large number of cardiac arrests occur outside of hospitals. Conventional CPR includes both chest compressions and rescue breathing such as mouth‐to‐mouth resuscitation. This is known as interrupted chest compression with pauses at a fixed ratio for rescue breathing (e.g. 2 breaths: 30 compressions) . 
Rescue breathing can be given by mouth‐to‐mouth or by ventilation devices used by ambulance services. Some studies suggest that applying continuous chest compression is critical for an individual's survival and that interrupting the chest compressions for rescue breathing might increase the risk of death. Continuous chest compression CPR may be performed with, or without, rescue breathing. The theory is that chest compression mimics the heart's action of pumping blood around the body and maintains the supply of oxygen and nutrients to important organs such as the brain. Trying to give mouth‐to‐mouth ventilation means interrupting chest compressions which could weaken the action of pumping blood. 
We compared the effects of the two treatments when they were given by bystanders at the scene of a non‐asphyxial OHCA and by ambulance crews who arrive later. (A non‐asphyxial arrest does not result from drowning or choking.) 
Search date 
The evidence is current to February 2017.
Study characteristics 
We included four studies; three compared the two approaches to resuscitation when given by untrained bystanders under instruction by telephone. One study compared the two approaches when given by EMS personnel. 
The three studies, comparing the approaches given by untrained bystanders, (3737 participants) were all undertaken in urban areas and some included both children and adult OHCA. The, bystanders were all untrained and given telephone instructions from the emergency services. 
The fourth study compared approaches given by EMS professionals (23,711 participants); it was undertaken in urban areas and included only adult OHCA. 
Key results 
When CPR was performed by bystanders, we found that more people survived until discharge from hospital after chest compression alone than they did following interrupted chest compression with pauses at a fixed ratio for rescue breathing (15 compressions to 2 breaths) (14% versus 11.6%). For the outcomes of survival to hospital admission and neurological outcomes, we did not have sufficient data to be certain that either strategy was better. No data was available for adverse effects, quality of life or survival at one‐year. 
When CPR was performed by EMS professionals, we found that survival to hospital discharge was slightly lower with continuous chest compressions (100/minute) plus asynchronous rescue breathing (10/minutes) CPR compared with interrupted chest compression plus rescue breathing. Around 9.7% of people lived when they received interrupted chest compression plus rescue breathing compared with 9% of people who received continuous chest compression plus asynchronous rescue breathing. 
