Are patient outcomes superior after endovascular or open surgical repair of thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms? 
Background 
A thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysm (TAAA) is a widening or swelling of a blood vessel 50% greater than the original vessel diameter, affecting the thoracic and abdominal aorta simultaneously. A TAAA greater than 6.0 cm to 6.5 cm in diameter (depending on the gender of the patient, or the presence of an underlying inherited weakness in the aortic wall), or a TAAA expanding faster than 1 cm per year, is regarded as a life‐threatening condition if left untreated, and presents a complex challenge for surgeons in deciding on the best treatment path for each patient. The treatment options include open surgical repair which requires the surgical team to open both the chest and the abdomen to replace the diseased aorta with a material graft; endovascular repair which involves inserting a series of stents covered with material (endografts) within the aneurysm through small groin incisions using X‐rays to guide the endografts into place; and non‐interventional management which requires counselling patients and their family and, when necessary, prescribing patients medications to control risk factors. Significant complications including death exist after endovascular and open surgical repair. However, endovascular repair is conceptually less invasive, and for this reason, we aimed to determine if endovascular repair is a safer option for patients compared to open surgical repair. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We searched the literature for randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of endovascular compared to open surgical repair for treating thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms. Randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials help inform healthcare professionals, policymakers, and consumers about the best possible treatment option for patients with TAAAs. These types of trials aim to control confounding factors, for example patient fitness or surgeon experience, so that the methods of treatment are fairly compared. Our search up to April 2021 did not identify any randomised controlled trials or controlled clinical trials that met our inclusion criteria. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We found no studies that addressed our objective.
Conclusion 
To assess the safety and effectiveness of endovascular compared to open surgical repair effectively, randomised controlled trials and controlled clinical trials would be helpful, but there are logistical and ethical challenges in undertaking such trials. 
