Infraorbital nerve block for pain after cleft lip surgery in children
Background 
Cleft lip is one of the most common birth defects. The surgery to correct this defect can cause moderate to severe pain. Many of the drugs to reduce pain (analgesics) used in adults can have unwanted side effects in children. The treatment of the pain associated with the surgical correction of cleft lip can therefore be a challenge. One technique that can provide pain relief for these children is known as infraorbital nerve block which involves the injection of an anaesthetic around the nerve that is responsible for the sensation of touch and pain of the upper lip. 
Review question 
We reviewed the effectiveness of infraorbital nerve block compared with placebo ('sham' block) or other interventions for the control of pain in children having cleft lip surgery. 
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies with a total of 353 boys and girls, who ranged in age from 1 month to 13 years. These studies had been published up to June 2015. Three studies compared nerve block with sham block. Three studies compared nerve block with injected analgesics, and two studies compared nerve block with local anaesthesia. 
Key results 
The children who received the infraorbital nerve block (with lignocaine or bupivacaine) had less pain and more time between finishing surgery and needing more analgesics. These children also had less need for analgesics than those who received the sham block. The children who received the infraorbital nerve block also had less pain and were able to eat sooner than those who received injected (intravenous) analgesics. The nerve block did not appear to alter heart rate, breath rate, and blood pressure. Five out of eight studies found no unwanted side effects after the nerve blocks; the other three studies did not mention side effects. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was low or very low due to the small number of children included in the studies and differences between the studies (heterogeneity) regarding the types of intervention, the observation time, and the forms of measuring and describing the outcomes. Further studies with larger numbers of children are needed. 
