Different corticosteroid treatments before early birth for improving outcomes for babies  
What is the issue? 
Babies born early (before 37 weeks of pregnancy, which is considered preterm birth) are at increased risk of health problems. These include lung problems (respiratory distress syndrome), bleeding of the brain (intraventricular haemorrhage) and death. Medicines called corticosteroids are given to the mother while still pregnant to help stop these problems occurring and there is high‐quality evidence that they are effective in preventing many of these issues. These medicines work by maturing the baby's lungs before birth. There are different types of corticosteroid and they can be given in different ways and in different doses. While we know that giving mothers at risk of early birth corticosteroids has benefits for the baby, we do not know which type of corticosteroid is most beneficial and least harmful for mother and baby. 
Why is this important? 
Since there is no clear or agreed best type or dose, hospitals may vary in how they give this medicine. This review assessed all available evidence from randomised controlled trials (where the treatments people receive are decided at random; these trials usually give the most reliable evidence about treatment effects) to determine which medicine and way of giving the medicine is best for mother and baby. We  also wanted to find out what effect the medicines have once the babies have grown into children and adults. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 9 May 2022, and identified 18 trials. We checked all trials for trustworthiness and did not include trials where we had doubts. We included 11 trials (2494 women and 2762 babies). One of these trials included over 1500 babies, finished in 2013 and was at low risk of bias. The other trials were smaller, older and at moderate or high risk of bias. 
Nine trials compared the two corticosteroids most commonly used before early birth, dexamethasone and betamethasone. For the mother, while there may be no difference between these medicines, we could not rule out the possibility that the risk of both infection and side effects were lower with dexamethasone (moderate‐quality evidence). For the baby, we are unsure whether the choice of medicine make a difference to the risk of any death after the start of the trial (moderate‐quality evidence). The choice of medicine probably  makes little or no difference to the risk of respiratory distress syndrome (high‐quality evidence) and chronic lung disease (moderate‐quality evidence). We found that there may be little or no difference between dexamethasone and betamethasone in the risk of intraventricular haemorrhage (low‐quality evidence). We are uncertain whether the choice of medicine makes a difference to the risk of necrotising enterocolitis (inflammation of the small and large intestines), because this happened so rarely in the trials (low‐quality evidence). 
One large trial attempted to monitor all children longer term, reporting results when children were two years of age. This trial found that overall there is probably little or no difference in the risk of neurodevelopmental disability (illnesses that affect how the brain functions) at two years of age (moderate‐quality evidence). The choice of medicine may make little or no difference to specific developmental outcomes including  hearing impairment (moderate‐quality evidence), developmental delay (moderate‐quality evidence) or learning difficulties (moderate‐quality evidence). It is unclear whether the choice of medicine makes a difference to sight impairment (low‐quality evidence). We are also unsure whether dexamethasone increases the risk of cerebral palsy (a group of disorders that affect the ability to move and maintain balance and posture) because there were  few events in the one study looking at this. We need information from more children to accurately assess the differences between these medicines for this outcome (low‐quality evidence). 
Three trials compared different ways of giving corticosteroids. One trial compared two ways of giving dexamethasone (by mouth or injection into the muscle), another trial compared different preparations of betamethasone and a third trial compared two ways of giving betamethasone (different time intervals between doses). Because these trials were small and at moderate risk of bias, we do not know whether their findings give a good indication of how best to give these medicines. 
What does this mean? 
Although we found that the effects of dexamethasone and betamethasone are probably similar for many outcomes, we are not sure which is the best corticosteroid in the context of early birth. We found no trials that reported the effects of these medicines beyond two years of age, so we cannot comment on their long‐term effect on the child's health. 
We did not find much evidence on the best way to give corticosteroids, so we are unable to say whether one way might be better than another. 
