The usefulness of weaning protocols for reducing the time critically ill adult patients spend on mechanical ventilation 
Review question: We reviewed the evidence about the effect of weaning protocols (guidelines) used by clinicians on reducing the time that critically ill patients spent on a breathing machine. 
Background: Helping patients to breathe with the use of a mechanical ventilator can be life saving. Yet the longer someone stays on a ventilator, the greater the likelihood of harmful effects including infection of the lungs and complications of prolonged immobility such as blood clots in the legs or lungs. It is important, therefore, to recognize early on when patients are ready to breathe for themselves so they can gradually come off the ventilator (this is called weaning). Usually, weaning is left to the judgement of clinicians, but recently protocols for weaning have been found to be safe for patients and useful for clinicians. Some studies said protocols led to better practice, but there was no clear evidence that using them actually produced beneficial results for patients. 
Search date: The evidence is current to January 2014.
Study characteristics: This updated Cochrane review included 17 studies involving 2434 critically ill men and women who were being cared for in medical, surgical, neurosurgical and mixed medical/surgical intensive care units (ICUs). The studies compared the use of protocols to wean patients from the ventilator against usual practice. They were conducted in ICUs in America, Europe, Asia and Australia. The ICUs cared for patients with heart conditions, breathing difficulties, head injuries, trauma and following major surgery. In 13 studies, clinicians used weaning protocols to guide them to reduce the ventilator support. In four studies ventilator support was reduced automatically by programmed computers following a protocol. 
Results: In comparison with usual practice without protocols, the average total time spent on the ventilator was reduced by 26%. The duration of weaning was reduced by 70% and length of stay in the ICU reduced by 11%. Using protocols did not result in any additional harms. We found considerable variation in the types of protocols used, the criteria for considering when to start weaning, the medical conditions of the patients and usual practice in weaning. This means that we cannot say exactly which protocols will work best for particular patients, but we do know they have not been beneficial in neurosurgical patients. 
Quality of evidence: We graded the quality of the available evidence as moderate for duration of ventilation and harmful effects, and low for the duration of weaning and ICU length of stay. The reasons for our grading were that results were not consistent across the studies, and studies lacked sufficient detail about usual care practices. 
