Transfusions of white blood cells called granulocytes for preventing infections in people who lack functioning granulocytes 
Review question We evaluated the evidence about whether granulocyte transfusions given to prevent infection are safe and decrease the risk of infection. Our target population was people with neutropenia (a very low count of a type of white blood cell (neutrophil), or white blood cells that did not function properly (neutrophil dysfunction). 
Background Functioning white blood cells, in particular granulocytes, are important for fighting life‐threatening bacterial and fungal infections. For many years, some hospital physicians have been giving granulocyte transfusions to people who lack white cells as a result of disease and/or treatment that has reduced their number or function. 
The demand for granulocytes for transfusion has shown a steady increase since the 1990s mainly as a result of the introduction of a drug called granulocyte colony‐stimulating factor (G‐CSF) which, if given to donors, leads to increased granulocyte numbers in the donor's blood and the collection of a larger dose of granulocytes than was previously possible. 
Study characteristics The evidence is current to April 2015. In this update, 12 trials were identified that compared giving granulocyte transfusions to prevent infections compared to not giving granulocytes to prevent infection. One trial has not yet been completed. Eleven trials containing a total of 653 participants were reviewed. These trials were conducted between 1978 and 2006. Data from one trial were not included in the analyses because patients were included within the trial more than once. Ten studies included only adults, and two studies included children and adults. 
Six studies reported their funding sources, and all were funded by charities or governments.
Key results Giving granulocyte transfusions to prevent infections did not affect the risk of death due to infection, or the risk of death due to any cause. 
Giving granulocyte transfusions to prevent infections decreased the number of people who had a bacterial or fungal infection in the blood, but did not decrease the number of people having a localised bacterial or fungal infection. 
It is unknown whether granulocyte transfusions increased the risk of having a serious adverse event because adverse events were only reported in people receiving granulocyte transfusions. 
Quality of the evidence The evidence for most of the findings was of very low or low quality. This was because patients and their doctors knew which study arm the patient had been allocated to and two of the studies were not true randomised studies (patients were allocated to the granulocyte transfusion arm if they had a suitable granulocyte donor). 
