High dose rate versus low dose rate intracavity brachytherapy for locally advanced uterine cervix cancer 
Background 
Radiotherapy has been successfully used to treat cervical cancer for nearly a century as cervical tissue is very sensitive to radiation. Improved survival and local control rates of the disease have made the combination of external beam radiotherapy (EBRT) and intracavity brachytherapy (ICBT) the standard treatment for locally advanced uterine cervix cancer. ICBT is divided into three modalities, low dose rate (LDR), high dose rate (HDR), and medium dose rate (MDR). Many studies have concluded that the LDR was superior to the HDR as the post‐treatment repair of normal tissue was better. Nevertheless, due to some potential advantages of HDRs in modern afterloading ICBT, HDR ICBT has increasingly been used, instead of LDR ICBT, over the past 20 years. 
Review question 
Despite the practical advantages of HDR, controversy still persists regarding the efficacy and safety of HDR compared to LDR brachytherapy. We conducted this review to assess the efficacy and safety of HDR versus LDR ICBT for women with locally advanced uterine cervical cancer. 
Main findings 
Four studies involving 1265 women were included in our meta‐analysis to compare HDR and LDR ICBT. The pooled results indicated there were no significant difference with regard to 3‐, 5‐ and 10‐year overall survival rates; 5‐ and 10‐year disease‐specific survival rates; 3‐ and 5‐year relapse‐free survival; 3‐ and 5‐year local control rates; and local and distant recurrence. Only in respect to complications did HDR ICBTshow mildly increased numbers of small bowel complications. These results confirmed that there were no significant differences in the efficacy and safety of HDR versus LDR ICBT for women with locally advanced uterine cervical cancer. 
Quality of the evidence 
We included three randomised controlled trials and one quasi‐randomised controlled trial. The way that randomisation was carried out was described in only two trials but they did not give details regarding allocation concealment and blinding. However, all trials had a low risk bias for incomplete outcome data (attrition bias) and selective reporting (reporting bias). The different methodological approaches used in the trials prevented any clear conclusion being reached regarding the quality of the evidence. According to GRADE, the quality of the evidence was low to moderate. 
