Screening tests for Down’s syndrome in first three months of pregnancy
Background  Down's syndrome (also known as Down's or Trisomy 21) is an incurable genetic disorder that causes significant physical and mental health problems, and disabilities. However, there is wide variation in how Down's affects people. Some individuals are severely affected whilst others have mild problems and are able to lead relatively normal lives. There is no way of predicting how badly a baby might be affected.  Expectant parents are given the choice to be tested for Down’s during pregnancy to assist them in making decisions. If a mother is carrying a baby with Down’s, then there is the decision about whether to terminate or continue with the pregnancy. The information offers parents the opportunity to plan for life with a Down’s child.  The most accurate tests for Down’s involve testing fluid from around the baby (amniocentesis) or tissue from the placenta (chorionic villus sampling (CVS)) for the abnormal chromosomes associated with Down’s. Both these tests involve inserting needles through the mother's abdomen and are known to increase the risk of miscarriage. Thus, the tests are not suitable for offering to all pregnant women. Rather, tests that measure markers in the mother’s blood, urine or on ultrasound scans of the baby are used for screening. These screening tests are not perfect, they can miss cases of Down’s and also give a ‘high risk’ test result to a number of women whose babies are not affected by Down’s. Thus, pregnancies identified as ‘high risk’ using these screening tests require further testing using amniocentesis or CVS to confirm a diagnosis of Down’s. 
What we did  The aim of this review was to find out which of the blood screening tests done during the first three months of pregnancy are the most accurate at predicting the risk of a pregnancy being affected by Down's. We looked at 18 different blood markers that can be used alone or in combination, taken before 14 weeks gestation, thus creating 78 screening tests fro Down’s. We found 56 studies, involving 204,759 pregnancies of which 2113 had pregnancies affected by Down's. 
What we found  For the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, the evidence supports the use of the double test of two blood markers; pregnancy‐associated plasma protein A (PAPP‐A) and free beta human chorionic gonadotrophin (βhCG), in combination with the mother's age. This test detects around seven out of every 10 (68%) pregnancies affected by Down's. It is common practice to offer amniocentesis or CVS to women with a high risk test result. About one in 20 women (5%) having this test will have a ‘high risk’ result but most of these women will not be carrying a baby with Down’s. We found for tests in the first 14 weeks of pregnancy, there is little evidence to support the use of serum tests made up of more than two blood markers.  Other important information to consider  The blood tests themselves have no adverse effects for the woman, over and above the risks of a routine blood test. However some women who have a ‘high risk’ screening test result, and are given amniocentesis or CVS have a risk of miscarrying a baby unaffected by Down’s. Parents will need to weigh up this risk when deciding whether or not to have an amniocentesis or CVS following a ‘high risk’ screening test result. 
