Topiramate add‐on for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a disorder where recurrent seizures are caused by abnormal electrical discharges from the brain. Most seizures can be controlled by a single antiepileptic drug. Unfortunately, some people require more than one antiepileptic medication to control their seizures, especially if these originate from one area of the brain (focal epilepsy), instead of affecting the entire brain (generalised epilepsy). These people are said to have drug‐resistant epilepsy. Topiramate can be used in addition to other antiepileptic drugs, called an add‐on treatment, to try to control drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Aim of this review 
This review investigated the effectiveness and tolerability of topiramate when used as an add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Results 
We found 12 trials that investigated topiramate as an add‐on treatment. They included a total of 1650 people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. These trials compared the antiepileptic drug topiramate to a placebo drug (an inactive, dummy drug which should not show any effect) for a period of up to 18 weeks. Taking all the evidence of the trials into account, the review found that topiramate is almost three times more effective, when used with other drugs, at reducing the number of seizures in drug‐resistant focal epilepsy than placebo. Adding topiramate to people's usual treatment was, however, associated with an increase in adverse effects such as problems with co‐ordination (ataxia), concentration, dizziness, drowsiness (somnolence), fatigue, 'thinking abnormally', tickling or numbness of the skin (paraesthesia) and weight loss. People taking add‐on topiramate were also more than twice as likely to withdraw from treatment than those taking placebo, most likely due to adverse effects. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We assessed the trials with regards to potential bias and certainty. Overall, we rated the certainty of the evidence as moderate to high which means that we are fairly certain that the findings that we have reported are accurate. The trials included in this review did not examine the long‐term effects of topiramate as an add‐on treatment and only one study investigated the use of add‐on topiramate in children. The findings should, therefore, only be applied to adults with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. Future research should test which dose is most effective. 
The evidence is current to July 2018.
