Occupational therapy after hip replacement
Background 
Total hip arthroplasty (THA) is a common surgical procedure for the treatment of pain and disability cause by osteoarthritis. Following THA, people have usually been provided with equipment, such as raised toilet seats and chairs, and educated to avoid activities that could cause the hip joint to be in a position of bending, twisting or where people cross their legs. These interventions aim to reduce the chances of dislocating the new hip, which is a painful and disabling event. This advice and equipment provision is often led by occupational therapists after a THA. We wanted to find out whether these types of treatments improve a person's recovery following a THA. 
Study characteristics 
This Cochrane review is current to 29 April 2016. We searched the available evidence and included three studies, which had 492 people who had received a THA. Two of these studies investigated providing people with equipment, such as raised toilet seats and rails, and restricting their body movements (one of these studies also provided people with physiotherapy). One study investigated teaching participants about doing certain activities of daily living in a safe way to promote self‐care without the risk of dislocating the new hip. The interventions were different and thus we did not combine the results. 
Key results 
One study compared outcomes for participants randomised to the provision of hip precautions, equipment and functional restrictions versus no provision of hip precautions or equipment or functional restrictions. This is the main comparator in the review. 
Health‐related quality of life (lower scores mean better quality of life) 
We cannot tell from our results whether the intervention has an important effect on health‐related quality of life (no numerical results provided) because the sample size was small and the study design flawed. 
Function 
We cannot tell from our results whether the intervention has an important effect on functional outcomes (no numerical results provided) because the sample size was small and the study design flawed. 
Complications and adverse events 
There were no dislocations or adverse events.
Outcomes of interest not measured 
Pain, treatment success and re‐operation rate were not measured.
Quality of the evidence 
We used the Grading of Recommendations Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) approach to assess the quality of the evidence. Due to issues relating to the small number of participants, size of studies and study conduct, including poorly blinding assessors to group allocation, we rated the quality of the evidence as 'very low'. Further research is highly likely to change the conclusions drawn from these results. We are uncertain whether the interventions improved outcomes. 
