Treatments for cancers of the mouth and throat: therapies targeted at cancer cells and therapies to boost the body’s immune system 
Review question 
This review looks at the evidence for the benefits of new kinds of therapies for treating cancer of the mouth (oral cavity cancer) and cancer of the throat (oropharyngeal cancer) used together with standard treatments. One is the targeting of cancer cells directly whilst the other aims to boost the body’s own immune system to combat the cancer more effectively. Do these treatments result in differences in overall survival, cancer‐free survival, keeping the cancer limited to that area of the body, recurrence of the cancer, quality of life and harmful or unwanted effects? 
Background 
Oral cancers (cancer of the mouth and cancer of the throat) are the sixth most common cancer worldwide, accounting for an estimated 4% of all cancers. There is a higher frequency of these cancers in men. Smoking, alcohol consumption and betel quid chewing are the main risk factors. Cancer of the throat is associated with infection from the human papilloma virus (HPV), which can be transmitted through sexual contact. Low socioeconomic status (a measure of a person's income, education and occupation in relation to other people's) is associated with a higher frequency of oral cancers and poorer survival rates. Survival following a diagnosis of mouth or throat cancer remains poor, with around 50% of people still alive at five years (five‐year survival rate). 
New therapies targeted at the cells that give rise to oral cancers are being developed. The advantage these may have over conventional chemotherapy is that rather than affecting both healthy and cancerous cells they just target cancer cells. 
Immunotherapy (also known as biological therapy, biotherapy or biological response modifier therapy) may improve the functioning of the immune system so it is more effective at destroying cancer cells. Local immunotherapy delivers treatment directly into the tumour and systemic immunotherapy targets the whole body, and may be useful for stopping the cancer spreading or the return of primary tumours in more advanced cancer. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence in this review is up‐to‐date as of February 2015. We found 12 studies suitable for inclusion with a total of 2488 participants. Twelve per cent of participants (298) had tumours in the mouth and 59% (1468) had tumours in the throat. The remaining 29% of participants had tumours of the voice box or lower part of throat and less than 1% had tumours at other sites. We grouped trials by treatment into three main comparisons: standard therapy with or without epidermal growth factor receptor monoclonal antibody (EGFR mAb) therapy (which is a targeted therapy), standard therapy with or without tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) (which is a targeted therapy) and standard therapy with or without immunotherapy (which is an immune‐boosting therapy). 
Key results 
We found that adding EGFR mAb, a targeted therapy, to standard therapy may increase overall survival, cancer‐free survival, keeping the cancer limited to that area of the body and may decrease recurrence of the cancer. However, it may result in an increase in skin problems for some. 
