Avatar Therapy for schizophrenia or related disorders
Review question 
Is Avatar Therapy an effective add‐on treatment for people with schizophrenia and schizoaffective disorder? 
Background 
Auditory hallucination is perceiving voices when there is no external stimulus. Around 70% of people with schizophrenia experience these. Medication may help cause these to decrease or disappear. However, some people do not want to take medication and, in a proportion of people, it has little meaningful effect. Avatar Therapy is an experimental technology that uses a visualised avatar face, voice and other sensory input to create an interactive computerised environment. We investigated the effects of Avatar Therapy for improving auditory hallucinations for people with schizophrenia. 
Searches 
Cochrane Schizophrenia's Information Specialist searched through the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's database for randomised trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) of people with schizophrenia receiving either Avatar Therapy or treatment as usual. We found 14 reports from four studies. 
The evidence is current to April 2020.
Trials 
Four studies met our inclusion criteria, three of which provided useable data and one is still underway. The reliability of the evidence for the three included studies was very low to low. All data were limited to six weeks' treatment and one week' follow‐up and, in some cases, data were not usable (we contacted the authors). All the reported data are just for the short‐term period of trials and it is apparent that we need more studies with medium‐ to long‐term periods to be able to estimate the rate of Avatar Therapy's effectiveness. 
Conclusions 
Three short‐term studies with 195 participants were included in this review. Avatar Therapy was compared with treatment as usual and supportive counselling. Evidence from the trials was not high quality. Although there were some suggestions of positive effects, because of the unclear meaning for front‐line care, and the considerable risk of bias of each of the results, we cannot be certain of these effects. There is just as great a risk of Avatar Therapy causing problems to people. More trials are needed, and those undertaking them should collaborate, work with all involved to choose outcomes that mean something in daily life, and design studies that will provide clear information across months to years for anyone who is interested. 
