Early and late adverse effects on the kidney after treatment for childhood cancer
Review question 
This review evaluated how common (the prevalence), and what might cause (the risk factors), early and late adverse effects (side effects), of the kidney in childhood cancer survivors (CCS). 
Background 
Improvements in diagnostics and treatment for childhood cancer has resulted in a major increase in survival. However, CCS are at risk of developing adverse effects as a result of their cancer treatment, including adverse effects on the kidneys. Little is known about the prevalence and risk factors of kidney function problems in long‐term CCS. The kidneys can compensate for problems in their functioning, however, some symptoms can be experienced over time, depending on which kidney functions are affected. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to March 2017. We included 61 studies; 46 on prevalence, six for both prevalence and risk factors, and nine studies that did not meet all the requirements for this review, but evaluated risk factors (non‐eligible studies). Participants in the studies had been treated before the age of 21 years with chemotherapy (i.e. cisplatin, carboplatin, ifosfamide), radiation, or surgery involving the kidneys, or a combination of these treatments. The studies took place at least one year after the participants had finished their treatment. The 52 studies that evaluated prevalence of adverse kidney effects included 13,327 participants, of whom 4499 underwent kidney function tests. The studies were very different from each other, in the types of participants and treatments, length of follow‐up and how they measured treatment results, and their methods were of variable quality. 
Key results 
The percentage of CCS with kidney problems ranged from 0% to 84%. Reported risk factors were often inconsistent among studies. 
The prevalence of chronic kidney disease ranged from 2.4% to 32% in 244 participants (7/52 studies). 
Thirty‐six out of 52 studies, including at least 432 participants, carried out a kidney function test called glomerular filtration rate (GFR). An abnormal GFR was found to be present in 0% to 73.7% of participants. One eligible study found an increased risk of abnormal GFR in participants who had been treated with total body irradiation (TBI) and received certain types of antibiotics (aminoglycosides and vancomycin). Four non‐eligible studies reported an increased risk of abnormal GFR for participants treated with surgery of the kidney and ifosfamide. Some studies also reported that cisplatin and long follow‐up duration were risk factors. 
Twenty‐two out of 52 studies, including 851 participants, assessed an abnormal amount of proteins in the urine, which they found in 3.5% to 84% of participants. Risk factors, evaluated by three non‐eligible studies, included cisplatin, ifosfamide, TBI, and a combination of surgery and radiation involving the kidney. However, the results of these studies did not agree, and we could not analyse their results together because they used different definitions. 
Eleven out of 52 studies looked at a low level of phosphate in the blood (hypophosphataemia), or problems with the reabsorption of phosphate by the kidneys in 246 participants. Prevalence of hypophosphataemia ranged between 0% and 36.8% in 287 participants. The studies found problems with the reabsorption of phosphate by the kidneys in 0% to 62.5% of participants. One non‐eligible study investigated risk factors, but could not find any association with hypophosphataemia. 
Four out of 52 studies, including 128 CCS, evaluated a low level of magnesium in the blood (hypomagnesaemia). Prevalence ranged between 13.2% and 28.6%. Two non‐eligible studies identified cisplatin as risk factor for hypomagnesaemia. Other reported risk factors were carboplatin, surgery of the kidney, and follow‐up time. However, studies were contradictory. 
The prevalence of high blood pressure ranged from 0% to 50% in 2464 participants (30/52 studies). Risk factors reported by one eligible study were older age at screening and radiation involving the kidney. A high body mass index was reported as a risk factor by three non‐eligible studies. Other reported risk factors included follow‐up time, and radiation involving the kidney or TBI. However, studies were contradictory. 
