Blood thinners in people with multiple myeloma
Background 
The risk of blood clots is high in people with blood cancer, especially in those who have multiple myeloma, cancer that begins in plasma cells, a type of white blood cell. Lenalidomide, pomalidomide, and thalidomide are common treatments for multiple myeloma, which when combined with other chemotherapy agents, have been shown to increase the risk of blood clots. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific databases for clinical trials looking at the effects of different blood thinners on blood clots in people with multiple myeloma receiving immunomodulatory agents (lenalidomide, pomalidomide, and/or thalidomide). The studies looked at survival, blood clots in the limbs or in the lung, and/or bleeding. The evidence is current to 14 June 2021. 
Key results 
We included four studies enrolling a total of 1042 people with multiple myeloma. The included studies made the following comparisons: aspirin (oral medication used to prevent blood clots) to vitamin K antagonist (VKA) (oral blood thinner) (one study); aspirin to low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) (injectable blood thinner) (two studies); VKA to LMWH (one study); and aspirin to direct oral anticoagulants (oral blood thinner) (two studies). In people with multiple myeloma receiving thalidomide, the data do not provide a clear answer about the comparative effect of these drugs on all of the studied outcomes (death, blood clots, bleeding). 
Certainty of the evidence 
When comparing aspirin to VKA, aspirin to LMWH, or VKA to LMWH, the certainty of the evidence was very low for all studied outcomes (death, blood clots in the limbs or the lung, and bleeding). When comparing aspirin to direct oral anticoagulants, the certainty of the evidence was very low for all of the studied outcomes (death, blood clots in the limbs or the lung, and bleeding). 
Editorial note: This is a living systematic review. Living systematic reviews offer a new approach to review updating in which the review is continually updated, incorporating relevant new evidence as it becomes available. Please refer to the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews for the current status of this review. 
