Surgical treatment for difficulty emptying the bladder due to disco‐ordination between bladder and sphincter muscle in adults with neurogenic bladder 
Damage to the nervous system can lead to a lack of co‐ordination (dyssynergia) between the bladder (detrusor) and the muscle at the exit of the bladder that allows people to control their bladder emptying (external urethral sphincter muscle). This urologic condition is called detrusor‐sphincter dyssynergia (DSD) and is most frequently seen in people with spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis. Insufficient relaxation of the sphincter during a voiding contraction prevents effective bladder emptying and can lead to high pressures in the bladder. People with increased bladder pressures are at an increased risk for bladder and kidney infections, which may lead to kidney damage and even failure. 
Treatment is aimed at lowering these pressures by promoting proper bladder emptying. This can be achieved by inserting a thin tube (catheter) in the urethra (i.e. the tube connected to the bladder through which urine is released from the body) to empty the bladder on a regular basis (intermittent catheterisation), use of drugs, or surgery. The first step in treatment is usually not surgery, but surgical options should be considered if this is not possible or feasible. Different types of surgical treatment exist, but the optimal surgical treatment for this condition in adults is as yet unknown. This question is the subject of this review. 
We found five trials, which included a total of 199 people (with an average age of 40 years) with a variety of causes of DSD. One trial showed that a surgical procedure in which an incision is made in the sphincter (sphincterotomy) is better in lowering bladder pressure than placing a permanent thin tube into the urethra (urethral stent), but only after two years. 
Botulinum A toxin (BTX‐A) is a toxin that targets the nervous system locally and interferes with the communications between nerves and muscles. Four trials used botulinum A toxin injections to weaken or paralyse the sphincter. These four trials independently showed that in some outcomes, BTX‐A was more effective than placebo, lidocaine, or a treatment combined with drugs. 
Compared to placebo, BTX‐A was more effective in lowering pre‐voiding and maximum bladder pressure after 30 days. 
Comparing BTX‐A to lidocaine injections, bladder emptying improved seven and 30 days after botulinum A toxin injection, however, not after one day. Botulinum A toxin injection without the addition of drugs (baclofen) was possibly more effective in increasing the ability of the bladder to stretch than botulinum A toxin injection combined with drugs. However, the quality of the trial reporting this was poor. The botulinum A toxin injection is effective for two to three months and therefore requires frequent reinjection, while the effects of sphincter incision seem to last for at least two years. 
