Exercise therapy for adolescents and adults with pain behind or around the kneecap (patellofemoral pain) 
Introduction 
Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is a common knee problem, which particularly affects adolescents and young adults. PFPS is characterised by retropatellar (behind the kneecap) or peripatellar (around the kneecap) pain. It is often referred to as anterior knee pain. The pain mostly occurs when load is put on the muscles that extend the leg when climbing stairs, squatting, running, cycling or sitting with bent knees. Exercise therapy is often prescribed for this condition. 
Results of the search and description of studies 
We searched the medical literature until May 2014 and found 31 relevant studies involving 1690 participants with patellofemoral pain. The studies varied a lot in the characteristics of their study populations (e.g. activity levels and duration of their symptoms) and type of exercises. We assessed most trials as being at high risk of bias because the people, often the trial participants, who assessed outcome knew what treatment group they were in. 
The included studies, some of which contributed to more than one comparison, provided evidence for the following comparisons: exercise therapy versus control (10 trials); exercise therapy versus other conservative interventions (e.g. applying adhesive tape over the knee; eight trials evaluating different interventions); and different exercises or exercise programmes. The latter group comprised: supervised versus home exercises (two trials); foot fixed (closed kinetic chain) versus foot free (open kinetic chain) exercises (four trials); variants of closed kinetic chain exercises (two trials making different comparisons; other comparisons of other types of kinetic chain or miscellaneous exercises (five trials evaluating different interventions); hip and knee versus knee exercises (seven trials); hip versus knee exercises (two studies); and high‐ versus low‐intensity exercises (one study). There were no trials testing the exercise medium (land versus water) or duration of exercises. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence, where available, for each of seven main outcomes for all comparisons was of very low quality. This means that we are very unsure about the reliability of these results. 
Results of the two largest comparisons 
The evidence for the comparison of exercise therapy versus control (e.g. no treatment) showed that exercise therapy may provide a clinically important reduction in pain during activity and usual pain in the short term (three months or less) and in the long term (more than three months). The review also found evidence that exercise therapy may provide a clinically important improvement in functional ability in both the short and long term, as well as resulting in greater numbers reporting recovery from their symptoms in the long term. 
The review found evidence that hip plus knee exercises may provide a clinically important reduction in pain during activity and usual pain in the short term and pain during activity in the long term, when compared with knee exercises only. There was inconclusive evidence to say whether functional ability or recovery was better in either group. 
Conclusions 
This review has found very low quality but consistent evidence that exercise therapy for PFPS may result in clinically important reduction in pain and improvement in functional ability, as well as enhancing long‐term recovery. However, we cannot say what is the best form of exercise therapy nor whether this result would apply to all people with patellofemoral pain. There is some very low quality evidence that hip plus knee exercises may be more effective in reducing pain than knee exercise alone. 
