Thyroid surgery for Graves' disease and Graves' opthalmopathy
Review question 
The aim of this review was to compare different surgical techniques for treatment of Graves' disease. We wanted to address whether surgically removing the whole thyroid (total thyroidectomy) gland is better than removing most of the gland (subtotal thyroidectomy) at controlling increased activity of the thyroid (hyperthyroidism) and eye symptoms associated with Graves' disease. 
Background 
Graves' disease is a common condition affecting the thyroid gland, which has an important role in controlling the body's metabolism. The body's own immune system attacks the thyroid gland and causes it to work much harder. This overactivity can lead to increased risk of heart attacks and strokes if left untreated for a long period of time. Graves' disease also causes protrusion of the eye and may limit eye movement (Graves' ophthalmopathy). Graves' disease is generally treated by medication alone or sometimes with radiation or surgery. In recent years, there has been increasing interest in surgery for Graves' disease and other thyroid problems, as results of surgery and health‐related quality of life outcomes appear promising. However, there is controversy over which surgical technique is best, as total thyroidectomy may give better control of disease long term, compared with subtotal thyroidectomy, but carry a greater risk of postoperative complications, such as damage to the so‐called recurrent laryngeal nerve (causing vocal cord dysfunction). 
Study characteristics 
We identified five randomised controlled studies that were relevant to the review question that directly compared different thyroidectomy surgical techniques. A total of 886 participants were included in the studies and follow‐up was between six months and six years. All five studies were conducted in university hospitals or tertiary referral centres for thyroid disease. The countries involved were Germany, Sweden, Poland and Taiwan. No study was performed in an outpatient setting. 
