Corticosteroid therapy for Duchenne muscular dystrophy
Review question 
Is there new evidence for benefit from corticosteroids for prolongation of walking, and improving muscle strength and functional abilities in Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD), particularly over the long term (more than two years)? Are different corticosteroids, or different regimens equally effective, with similar side effect profiles? 
Background 
DMD is an incurable disease beginning in childhood that almost exclusively affects boys. Muscle wasting and loss of walking lead to wheelchair dependence and early death. Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) have shown that corticosteroids improve muscle strength and function for up to six months and strength up to two years (evidence on function at two years is limited). Data from other study types suggest that corticosteroids produce better function over a five‐year period in many patients. Overall, long‐term benefit remains unclear, and has to be weighed against long‐term side effects. It is also unclear whether different corticosteroids differ greatly in side effects. Earlier versions of this review found insufficient evidence to determine whether an intermittent regimen is as effective as a daily regime, or produces fewer side effects. 
Study characteristics 
We found 12 studies of corticosteroid treatment in DMD, involving a total of 667 randomised boys; two other studies are ongoing. Among the 12 completed studies, the treatments were: a corticosteroid versus inactive medicine (placebo) (in nine trials); daily versus weekend‐only prednisone (in one trial); and deflazacort versus prednisone (in three trials). Some studies included more than one comparison; some were not fully reported or provided results that could not be analysed. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
One trial, a two‐year study comparing a corticosteroid (deflazacort) with placebo, assessed the effects of corticosteroids on the ability to continue walking, but the data were not suitable for analysis. Most studies did not report ability to continue walking. 
At the usual 0.75 mg/kg/day dose, corticosteroids improved muscle strength and function over six months compared to placebo. These results are based on combined data (up to 152 participants) from four trials, which provided moderate quality evidence. Improvements were seen in timed tests (eg. timed walk or run, time to stand, stair climb), ability to lift weights, a leg function grade, and a measure of the strength of muscles used in breathing. Evidence from single trials showed 0.75 mg/kg/day prednisone to be superior to 0.3 mg/kg/day on most strength and function tests, with little evidence of greater benefit at 1.5 mg/kg/day. Changes in appearance and hair growth were more common at 0.75 mg/kg/day than 0.3 mg/kg/day. 
One RCT (n = 66) also reported better strength, function and quality of life at 12 months with daily 0.75 mg/kg/day prednisone. The two‐year RCT, which had 28 participants, showed that deflazacort stabilised muscle strength for up to two years compared to placebo. This study did not show benefit on timed tests at two years; however, these results are imprecise and at high risk of bias, with less than half the original participants contributing data. 
One trial found that changes in muscle strength and function were similar with daily and weekend‐only prednisone regimens over a 12‐month period (low to moderate quality evidence). 
Two small RCTs compared daily prednisone 0.75 mg/kg/day with daily deflazacort 0.9 mg/kg/day, but trial methods did not allow comparisons of muscle strength or function. 
Previous versions of this review have found adverse events such as excessive weight gain, abnormal behaviour, changes in appearance, and abnormal hair growth to be more common with corticosteroids than with placebo. We assessed the quality of evidence for abnormal behaviour and weight gain for this review and found it to be moderate. The newer study of daily versus weekend‐only prednisone showed that both groups gained weight. The body mass index (BMI; a measure of weight for height) did not show any clear difference between the regimens (low quality evidence). The weekend‐only group had a greater increase in height. According to very low quality evidence from two studies, deflazacort appeared to cause less weight gain at one year than prednisone, and no significant difference in numbers with behaviour change. Data were insufficient to assess the risk of fractures or cataracts. 
