Pay for performance (payment or penalty methods to encourage hospitals to increase quality of care) 
What was the aim of this review 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if 'pay for performance' — that is, providing hospitals with monetary incentives to meet targets or penalizing them for failing to reach those targets — can improve the quality of patient care, resource use and equity. The review was not limited to a certain health problem. Cochrane researchers collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
Pay for performance improved patient outcomes (mortality, clinical adverse events) either only very slightly or not at all. It seems that providing hospitals with additional payments to reward performance achieves only small, short‐term, but non‐sustainable, effects. Penalizing hospitals through non‐payment for failure to reach performance targets seems to be slightly more effective than providing additional payments for performance; and payments for quality attainment (e.g. falling below specified mortality threshold) seem to be slightly more effective than payments for quality improvement (e.g. reduction of mortality by specified percent points within one year). It was not possible to determine if pay for performance affects patient outcomes because the certainty of the available evidence was judged to be very low.The impact of pay for performance on equity is unclear. 
What was studied in the review? 
The payment method for reimbursing health care delivered in hospitals can have an impact on patient outcomes, quality of care, equity, utilization, health care provider outcomes (e.g. workload) and adverse effects. The Cochrane researchers assessed the impact of payment methods that are based on hospital performance (e.g. hospital‐acquired infections) and are thereby aiming to stimulate an improvement of hospital performance. 
Main results 
The review authors found 27 relevant studies that compared six different P4P programs. Twenty‐four were from the USA, two from the UK and one was from France. All studies compared pay for performance (through the use of rewards or penalties or both) with no pay for performance, i.e. a basic payment scheme without a component that incentivizes quality of care. The studies were either funded by government agencies or received no funding. 
There was no improvement of patient outcomes (mortality, adverse clinical events) or the improvement was at most very small. Consequently, we are uncertain whether P4P has a positive impact on patient outcomes because the certainty of the evidence was very low. There was a slightly larger improvement in quality of care. Non‐payments ('sticks') seem to be a little bit more effective than additional payments ('carrots'). The impact of Pay‐for‐Performance on equity is unclear. We found no data on utilization (resource use), health care provider outcomes (quality of care) and adverse effects. 
