Lacosamide add‐on therapy for focal epilepsy
Background 
Lacosamide is an antiepileptic drug that can be added alongside other antiepileptic drugs ('add‐on therapy') to treat focal seizures (a seizure that starts in one area of the brain). Lacosamide may be beneficial for people who continue to have seizures whilst taking other antiepileptic medication (drug‐resistant epilepsy). In this review we studied how well lacosamide works as an add‐on for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
Studies 
We included five trials with a total of 2199 participants with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. Four trials included adults (aged 16 to 70), and one trial included children (aged 4 to 16). Across the five trials, people were split into two groups and given either lacosamide or a sugar pill (placebo), in addition to their existing antiepileptic medication. 
Results 
People taking lacosamide were almost twice as likely as those taking placebo to have their number of seizures reduced by 50% or more. People who took lacosamide were also twice as likely to be free of all seizures, compared to those who took placebo. However, people in the lacosamide group were more likely to withdraw from treatment than those in the placebo group, due largely to side effects. People taking lacosamide most commonly reported blurred or double vision, problems with co‐ordination, dizziness, drowsiness, nausea, and vomiting. 
We separately excluded data from children to study the effect of lacosamide in adults only, to determine whether the inclusion of children affected the results. Adults who took lacosamide were four times more likely to be free of all seizures than adults who took placebo. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We judged the methods used by the five trials as good, and the evidence found in this review was of moderate to high certainty with the exception of seizure freedom, which was deemed to be low. This means that we are fairly to highly certain that the results we have reported are accurate for most outcomes apart from seizure freedom. We found a difference in results between when adult and children were grouped together compared to when adults alone were studied, suggesting a difference in effect of lacosamide between the two population groups. More research is needed on the long‐term effects of lacosamide and to explore how well lacosamide works for children with epilepsy. 
