Heliox inhalation therapy for bronchiolitis in infants
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of heliox inhalation therapy in infants with airway obstruction due to winter viral pulmonary infection. 
Background 
Approximately 20% of all infants experience trouble breathing associated with viral infection in the first year of life, and 2% to 3% of these infants require hospitalisation for marked breathing difficulties. In this review, we wanted to asses the effect of the addition of heliox to standard medical care. Heliox is a mixture of oxygen and the gas helium. Helium inhalation decreases the work of breathing by increasing gas flow in small or partially obstructed airways by lowering resistance to gas flow. 
Study characteristics 
We retrieved seven trials involving 447 infants requiring hospitalisation for marked breathing difficulties. Six trials recruited infants from paediatric intensive care units and one trial from the emergency department. Four trials were supported in part by unrestricted grants from a manufacturer with a commercial interest in the results. The evidence is current to March 2015. 
Key results 
Pooled results failed to demonstrate a reduction in the rate of emergency department discharge, in the rate of intubation to achieve respiratory support, or in the length of respiratory support. However, four trials involving 138 infants used a clinical respiratory score system, with increased severity receiving a higher score. The pooled results show that infants treated with heliox inhalation had a reduction in this respiratory score in the first hour. In a small subgroup of infants who were started on a nasal device providing a continuous positive airway pressure right from the start, because of the severity of their disease, heliox inhalation could reduce length of treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
Each trial included in this review used a different method for delivering heliox. They also used different thresholds of clinical respiratory score for inclusion, and were often underpowered for the major endpoints. Further studies using a valid method of heliox application in addition to standard medical care are needed. Inclusion criteria must include a clinical severity score that reflects severe respiratory distress to avoid the inclusion of children who are not very sick, who may not benefit from heliox inhalation. Such studies would provide necessary information about the appropriate place of heliox in the management of seasonal pulmonary infection in infants. 
