Benefits and risks of ear cleaning for people with chronic suppurative otitis media (persistent or recurring ear infection with discharge of pus) 
Why this is important 
Chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM), also known as chronic otitis media (COM), is an inflammation and infection of the middle ear that lasts for two weeks or more. People with CSOM usually experience recurrent or persistent ear discharge – pus that leaks out from a hole in the eardrum – and hearing loss. 
Different approaches can be used to clean the affected ears and remove discharge. These include: 
‐ using cotton wool or tissue paper (dry mopping);‐ sucking up material blocking the ear with a small device (usually done under a microscope); or‐ washing out the ear (irrigation). 
To find out how effective ear cleaning is in people with CSOM, and whether it causes unwanted effects, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. In particular, we wanted to know whether ear cleaning stopped ear discharge, and whether it affected health‐related quality of life, or hearing. We also wanted to know if it caused pain, discomfort or irritation in the ear, unwanted effects such as dizziness or ear bleeding, or any serious complications. 
How we identified and assessed the evidence 
First, we searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. We considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What we found 
We found three studies in 431 people with CSOM. People were followed for between six weeks and six months after treatment. 
The studies compared:
‐ daily dry mopping versus no treatment (two studies, 351 people);‐ daily suction combined with antibiotic ear drops administered in a clinic, versus one instance of suction only (in a clinic) followed by daily self‐administered antibiotic ear drops (one study, 80 people). 
Daily dry mopping compared against no treatment 
‐ We do not know whether dry mopping stops ear discharge, because the evidence on whether people experienced discharge after four weeks was of very low certainty, and no studies looked at the presence of discharge earlier. 
‐ One study reported serious complications, but it was not clear whether the people who reported complications had their ears cleaned with dry mopping or not, or whether the complications occurred before or after treatment. We therefore could not tell whether dry mopping caused serious complications, or how often these occurred. 
