Absorbent products for moderate‐heavy urinary and/or faecal incontinence in women and men 
Bladder and bowel control problems are common in women and men and many wear absorbent pads to contain urine and/or faecal leakage and to protect their clothes. In many countries people buy their own absorbent pads, but in some countries (and in institutions such as nursing homes) pads may be purchased and supplied by health services. There are four main designs of bodyworn absorbent products used for moderate‐heavy incontinence (i.e. urine or faecal loss that can be contained within a large absorbent pad): disposable pads (sometimes called insert pads) worn with stretch pants, disposable diapers (like babies' nappies), disposable T‐shaped diapers (like diapers with a waist‐band) and pull‐ups (like toddler training pants); there are also washable versions of these. In addition, disposable and washable underpads/bedpads and chairpads may be used, usually to provide 'back‐up' for bodyworn pads. 
This review found only two eligible clinical trials which had been carried out in the last 10 years and both were of bodyworn absorbent products. These trials included all the product designs and took place in nursing homes and in the community (i.e. involving people living in their own homes); both were carried out in the UK. There is evidence that different designs are better for men and women. Of the disposable designs diapers are the most cost‐effective for men for both day and night. Women prefer disposable pull‐ups, but they are expensive and disposable inserts are a cost‐effective alternative (except for women at night in nursing homes where disposable diapers are better). Washable diapers are inexpensive but have limited acceptability, confined mainly to some men at night. There were not enough people in the trials to draw any conclusions about which designs are best for faecal incontinence or about which particular design was better or worse for skin health. Using combinations of designs (different designs for day/night or for staying in/going out) may be more effective and less expensive than using one design all the time. 
