Dietary supplements for chronic gout
What is gout, and what are dietary supplements? 
Gout is caused by crystal formation in the joints, due to high uric acid levels in the blood. People have attacks of painful, warm, and swollen joints, often in the big toe. Some people develop a large buildup of crystals just beneath the skin, known as tophi. A cure can be achieved if uric acid levels in the blood return to normal for a prolonged time, making the crystal deposits dissolve. 
Dietary supplements are preparations, such as vitamins, essential minerals, and probiotics. Few studies evaluate their benefits, fewer evaluate their harmful side effects. 
Study characteristics 
This review is an update of the original review, published in 2014. After searching the medical literature up to August 2020, we found no new studies this time. We kept the two studies from the original review. 
One study (120 participants) compared enriched skim milk powder (with peptides that are thought to probably have an anti‐inflammatory effect) to standard skim milk, and to lactose powder, to try to reduce the frequency of gout attacks. The second study (40 participants) compared vitamin C with allopurinol – a drug commonly used in gout in an effort to reduce the uric acid levels in blood. Both studies enrolled people with gout who were predominantly middle‐aged men. In the skim milk study, participants appeared to have severe gout, as they had frequent attacks, and 20% to 43% presented with tophi. Participants in the vitamin C study appeared similar to ordinary people with gout. 
Key results – what happens to people with gout who drink enriched skim milk powder? 
Gout attacks 
People who drank enriched skim milk powder for three months had 0.21 fewer gout attacks per month (from 0.76 fewer to 0.34 more), or 2.5 fewer gout attacks per year: 
‐ People who drank enriched skim milk powder had 0.49 gout attacks per month (or six gout attacks per year). 
‐ People who drank standard skim milk powder or lactose had 0.70 gout attacks per month (or eight gout attacks per year). 
Withdrawals due to adverse events 
Four more people out of 100 who drank enriched skim milk powder discontinued the supplement by three months (4% more withdrawals). 
‐ 18 out of 100 stopped drinking enriched skim milk powder.
‐ 14 out of 100 stopped drinking standard skim milk powder or lactose.
Number of adverse events 
People who drank enriched skim milk powder for three months had lesser adverse events (1% lesser adverse events) 
‐ 47 out of 100 people who drank enriched skim milk powder had an adverse event.
‐ 48 out of 100 people who drank standard skim milk powder or lactose had an adverse event. 
Effects on serum uric acid levels, joint pain, and overall assessment by participants were uncertain. The effect on the disappearance of tophus was not measured. 
Key results – what happens to people with gout who take vitamin C? 
Serum uric acid levels 
‐ People who took vitamin C showed a reduction in serum uric acid levels of 0.014 mmol/L after eight weeks (or 2.8% reduction) 
‐ People who took allopurinol showed a reduction in serum uric acid levels of 0.118 mmol/L after eight weeks (or 23.6% reduction). 
