Endoscopic ultrasound versus magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography for the diagnosis of common bile duct stones 
Background 
Bile, produced in the liver and stored temporarily in the gallbladder, is released into the small bowel on eating fatty food. The common bile duct (CBD) is the tube through which bile flows from the gallbladder to the small bowel. Stones in the CBD (CBD stones) are usually formed in the gallbladder before migration into the bile duct. They can obstruct the flow of bile leading to jaundice (yellowish discolouration of skin, whites of the eyes, and dark urine), infection of the bile (cholangitis), and inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis), which can be life threatening. Various diagnostic tests can be performed for the diagnosis of CBD stones. Depending upon the availability of resources, these stones are removed endoscopically (usually the case) or may be removed as part of the operation performed to remove the gallbladder (it is important to remove the gallbladder since the stones continue to form in the gallbladder and can cause recurrent problems). Prior to removal, invasive tests such as endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) or intraoperative cholangiography (IOC) can be performed to detect CBD stones. However, before performing such invasive tests to diagnose CBD stones, non‐invasive tests such as endoscopic ultrasound (EUS) (using ultrasound attached to the endoscope) and magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography (MRCP) are used to identify people at high risk of having CBD stones so that only those at high risk can be subjected to further tests. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a thorough search for studies that reported the accuracy of EUS or MRCP in the diagnosis of CBD stones. We included a total of 18 studies involving 2532 participants. Eleven studies evaluated EUS alone, five studies evaluated MRCP alone, and two studies evaluated both tests. A total of 1537 participants were included in the 13 studies that evaluated EUS and 995 participants were included in the seven studies that evaluated MRCP. Most studies included patients who were suspected of having CBD stones based on abnormal blood tests, abnormal ultrasound, or symptoms such as jaundice or pancreatitis, or a combination of the above. The proportion of participants who had undergone previous gallbladder removal varied across studies. 
