Immunosuppressive treatment for adults with idiopathic membranous nephropathy
What is the issue? 
Primary membranous nephropathy (PMN) is an autoimmune disease, where the body's immune system attacks the kidneys. The term "primary" is used to describe membranous nephropathy that is not caused by another disease in the body. PMN is a leading cause of nephrotic syndrome in adults. Nephrotic syndrome is a condition, where the membrane of the kidney is damaged and becomes permeable for proteins. Primary membranous nephropathy is diagnosed through findings in a kidney biopsy and the presence of nephrotic syndrome. 
PMN is not harmful in about one‐third of patients, who will have a spontaneous "complete remission", which means that the disease will resolve by itself. However, about another one third will experience spontaneous remission but will have some protein in the urine that continues with normal kidney function. These patients usually only require supportive treatments that do not interact with the immune system. Without treatment, about 15% to 50% of patients progress to end‐stage kidney disease (ESKD) within 10 years. 
In some patients, PMN can be severe or continues to get worse even after using 6 months of supportive treatments. In these patients, extra treatment that dampens the activity of the immune system may be used to reduce damage to the kidney. It is not clear which of these treatment(s) is the most helpful and what side effects can occur. Therefore, the duration and intensity of immunosuppressive treatment need to be balanced against possible side effects. There are different classes of drugs used in immunosuppressive therapy. These drugs may or may not be combined with corticosteroids (drugs based on the body's stress response hormone cortisol). 
What did we do? 
We searched the Cochrane Kidney and Transplant specialised register up to 1 April 2021. We have combined studies to compare different treatment regimens with immunosuppressive therapy to assess which treatments help to treat patients with PMN and nephrotic syndrome with the least side effects. 
What did we find? 
This review identified sixty‐five studies with 3807 patients. Different types of immunosuppressive treatment include alkylating agents (cyclophosphamide and chlorambucil), calcineurin inhibitors (tacrolimus and cyclosporine), antimetabolites (mycophenolate mofetil, azathioprine), biologicals (e.g. rituximab) and adrenocorticotropic hormone. These drugs may or may not be combined with corticosteroids (e.g. prednisone), which also suppresses the immune system. After combining the results of available studies together, we found that compared with no treatment, supportive treatment or steroids alone, the use of immunosuppressive treatment probably reduced the number of patients who progressed to ESKD by about 40% and increased the number of patients that achieved complete remission. However, immunosuppressive treatment may lead to more adverse events, which can cause treatment to be stopped or lead to the patients needing to go to hospital. 
The different drugs that can be used in the immunosuppressive treatment were also examined in our review. We found that alkylating agents probably increases complete remission but may lead to more adverse events. We are uncertain whether alkylating agents increase infection or cancer. Based on the currently available evidence, the effectiveness of using calcineurin inhibitors is still unclear, but there is low certainty of the evidence, that CNI may lead to similar remission rates compared to alkylating agents. 
