Metformin versus the combined oral contraceptive pill for excessive facial/body hair, acne, and menstrual disorders in polycystic ovary syndrome 
Review question  
Is Metformin more effective and safer than the oral contraceptive pill (OCP) (alone or in combination) in improving clinical, hormonal, and metabolic features (irregular/prolonged menstrual cycles, excessive facial and body hair, acne, obesity) in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS)? 
Background  
PCOS is a common hormonal and metabolic problem affecting approximately 1 in 10 women of childbearing age, often resulting in infrequent menstrual periods, excess body and facial hair, acne and polycystic ovaries (enlarged ovaries due to numerous small collections of fluid (follicles)). The OCP has long been a proven effective treatment for women with PCOS who are not trying to fall pregnant. More recently, metformin (a medication that lowers insulin and blood sugar levels and often used to treat type 2 diabetes) has been advocated as possibly a more effective and safer long‐term treatment than the OCP in women with PCOS. Therefore, it is important to directly compare the benefits and risks of these two treatments in women with PCOS. 
Study characteristics  
We found 44 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing metformin versus the OCP (alone or in combination) in a total of 2253 women with PCOS which comprised 39 RCTs on adult women (2047 women) and five RCTs on adolescent women (206 women). We combined results from the studies and assessed the quality of the studies to judge how confident we could be in their results. The evidence is current to August 2019. 
Key results  
In adult women, when we compared metformin to the OCP in terms of improving excessive facial and body hair, metformin may be less effective in women with PCOS with a body mass index (BMI) between 25 kg/m2 to 30 kg/m2, but we are uncertain of the effect with BMI less than 25 kg/m2 or greater than 30 kg/m2. In terms of severe adverse events (requiring stopping of medication), metformin may result in a higher incidence of gastro‐intestinal (i.e. nausea, vomiting, diarrhoea), but a lower incidence of other adverse events. Evidence suggests that if the severe gastro‐intestinal adverse event rate following the OCP is 0.3%, then the severe gastro‐intestinal adverse event rate after metformin would be between 1% and 4.5%. Evidence also suggests that if the severe other adverse event rate following the OCP is 12%, the severe other adverse event rate after metformin would between 1% and 6%. 
Either metformin alone or the OCP alone may be less effective in improving excessive facial and body hair compared to the combination of the OCP with metformin. In terms of severe adverse events, we are uncertain if there was a difference between metformin and metformin combined with the OCP for gastro‐intestinal or other adverse events. If the severe gastro‐intestinal adverse event rate following metformin combined with the OCP is 7%, then the corresponding rate after metformin would be between 2% and 17%, and if the severe other adverse event rate following metformin combined with the OCP is 6%, the corresponding rate after metformin would be between 0.7% and 15%. 
