Zinc supplementation for improving pregnancy and infant outcome
What is the issue? 
In low‐ and middle‐income countries, many women have poor diets and are deficient in key micronutrients that are required for good health. This is especially concerning during pregnancy, when energy and nutrient needs are greater for both the mother and the growing baby. Zinc plays a critical role in normal growth and development. Deficiency in zinc could lead to adverse health outcomes, such as being born too soon or too small. 
This is an update of a review first published in 1997 and subsequently updated in 2007, 2012 and 2015. 
Why is this important? 
Although severe zinc deficiency is rare, it is estimated that mild‐to‐moderate deficiency is common in several regions of the world. Studies of human pregnancy and zinc supplementation, including those from low‐ and middle‐income countries, have failed to document a consistent beneficial effect on fetal growth, length of gestation, and early newborn survival. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies in July 2020. This updated review now includes 25 randomised controlled trials, involving over 18,000 women and their babies. We found that zinc supplementation in pregnancy may make little to no difference in reducing the risk of preterm births, stillbirths, or deaths around the time of birth, when compared to no zinc supplementation or placebo. Zinc supplementation may make little or no difference to the birthweight of babies, and probably makes little or no difference to the number of babies born either with a low birthweight or small for their gestational age, when compared with no zinc supplementation, or with giving a placebo. We cannot be sure whether zinc supplementation reduces death in newborns, because the certainty of the evidence is very low. 
What does this mean? 
There is not enough evidence that zinc supplementation during pregnancy results in better outcomes for women and their babies. Finding ways to improve women's overall nutritional status, particularly in low‐income areas, will do more to improve the health of mothers and babies than supplementing pregnant women with zinc alone. This should be an urgent research priority for the future. 
