Interventions to support women who are overweight or obese to start and continue breastfeeding
What is the issue? 
Breastfeeding is important for the health of mothers and their infants. Current advice is for exclusive breastfeeding to continue until babies are six months of age. Infants fed with formula milk are at greater risk of infections, asthma and sudden infant death syndrome. Mothers who do not breastfeed are at greater risk of female cancers and type 2 diabetes. Women who are overweight or obese are less likely to start breastfeeding than other women and tend to breastfeed for a shorter length of time. Suggested reasons include physical factors such as larger breasts, which make traditional breastfeeding positions more difficult, and a delay in their milk coming in (normally around 72 hours). This can decrease mothers’ confidence in their milk supply and ability to breastfeed. Cultural factors may also influence women's decision making about starting and continuing breastfeeding, for example, how the woman’s family and friends fed their babies, how confident the mother is in reaching her breastfeeding goals and how the woman views her own body. 
Why is this important? 
Women who are overweight or obese can experience challenges with breastfeeding that could be overcome with additional encouragement and support. We wanted to find out what types of support are provided and what works best, both before and after birth. Interventions included education, social support and physical methods such as milk expression. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (January 2019) and identified seven randomised controlled trials (RCTs), involving 831 women (range 36 to 226 women), conducted in high‐income countries (USA, Denmark, Australia) between 2006 and 2015. Three trials only included women who were obese prior to pregnancy and four trials included women who were overweight and women who were obese. 
The trials compared different types of breastfeeding support to usual care. There were a limited number of trials for each type of support, and differences in how much support the women received in the support and usual care groups. 
One trial (39 women) used a physical support intervention through the loan of an electric or manual breast pump versus usual care (no pump). Very low‐certainty evidence means it is unclear whether physical support improves exclusive breastfeeding at four to six weeks; or any breastfeeding at four to six weeks. The trial did not report other important outcomes of interest: non‐initiation of breastfeeding, and exclusive or any breastfeeding at six months after birth. 
