Carisbamate add‐on therapy for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is one of the most common chronic disorders of the nervous system. Most people with epilepsy are able to control their condition using a single antiepileptic drug; however, many people with epilepsy are drug‐resistant and need to take multiple antiepileptic drugs. Carisbamate may be useful for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy (epilepsy where the seizures start in one area of the brain). 
Aim of review 
This review evaluated the effectiveness and tolerability of carisbamate when used as an add‐on treatment (a treatment added to other antiepileptic drugs) for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. 
The evidence is current to April 2021.
Key results 
We found four studies involving a total of 2211 participants, who were aged 16 years and above. A third more people experienced a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency when receiving add‐on carisbamate compared to those who received add‐on placebo (dummy pill).  
Twice as many people in the carisbamate group became free of all seizures compared to the placebo group. More people in the carisbamate group withdrew from treatment for any reason and withdrew due to side effects than in the placebo group. There was no difference in the number of people who experienced one of more adverse events between the carisbamate and placebo groups.  Approximately twice as many people in the carisbamate group developed dizziness and drowsiness compared to the placebo group. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The included studies were at risk of bias due to a high number of participant withdrawals, especially when given high doses of carisbamate. The evidence for 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency was of moderate certainty, meaning that we are fairly certain that the findings we have reported are accurate. The evidence for the other results (seizure freedom, treatment withdrawal, the number of people experiencing one or more adverse events, dizziness, and drowsiness) was of low to very low certainty, meaning that we are uncertain of the accuracy of these results. We cannot comment on the use of add‐on carisbamate in children or on its long‐term use because the studies only included adults and were of short duration. 
