Vitamin K supplementation for cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence to see whether supplementing vitamin K in people with cystic fibrosis counteracts the effects of deficiency on blood clotting, bone strength and quality of life in people with cystic fibrosis. We tried to determine the best dose needed to prevent this deficiency. This is an update of an earlier review. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited condition which causes disease, most noticeably in the lungs, digestive system and pancreas. In people with cystic fibrosis, the pancreas often does not produce enough enzymes to allow the body to absorb digested food properly and this may also be linked to deficiencies of fat‐soluble vitamins like vitamin K. Vitamin K is needed for adequate blood clotting, bone formation and some metabolic functions. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 12 August 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included three trials (total of 70 participants aged between 8 and 46 years) in the review. 
Two trials compared vitamin K to a control. In the first trial all 18 people taking part (aged 13 to 35 years) were given 5 mg oral vitamin K supplement once a week or nothing for a total duration of one month and then they swapped to the other group for another month. Unfortunately, we could not analyse the data from this trial because the investigators did not report data just from the first part of the trial (only from the end of the trial when everyone taking part had been in both groups), so we could not tell if the effects were due to supplements or no supplements. In the second trial a total of 38 people aged 16 to 45 years took part. They were given either 10 mg vitamin K or placebo (a dummy supplement not containing any vitamin K) every day for 12 months, but the investigators did not state how many people were in each group so we could not analyse the results. 
In the third trial (14 children aged 8 to 18 years old) participants were given oral vitamin K supplements, half of them at a dose of 1 mg every day and the other half were given 5 mg every day for one month. 
