Families and Schools Together
Background 
Children who do well at school have carers who are interested in their learning and who encourage them to read and solve problems and do the best they can. Carers who live in supportive communities often find it easier to provide this kind of parenting than those who are more isolated. Families and Schools Together ‐ known as FAST ‐ is a programme that is designed to help parents help their children to do well at school. It aims to address the problems that prevent parents from giving their children the support they need, by improving relationships between families and schools, enhancing support for families, and tackling problems such as poverty, mental illness, and substance misuse. Five different versions of FAST have been developed for families of children at different ages. 
Review question 
Does the Families and Schools Together (FAST) programme improve outcomes for children and their families? 
Study characteristics 
We found 10 randomised controlled studies (studies where schools were assigned to receive FAST or to continue as usual, by a procedure similar to tossing a coin), with a total of more than 9000 children and their families. 
Nine of the studies took place in the USA and were funded by agencies in the US federal government. One study took place in the UK. Children's ages ranged from five to nine years, and most of the USA‐based children were members of a racial or ethnic minority group. Boys and girls were represented at approximately equal rates. In most studies, FAST was delivered at children's schools after the end of the school day, although in some studies it was delivered outside of school (e.g. at a community centre). The trials lasted about eight weeks and usually examined the effects of FAST compared to no additional intervention. The evidence is current as of December 2018. 
Results 
A meta‐analysis is a statistical method of combining data from several studies to reach a single, more robust conclusion. We were able to use data from nine studies in a meta‐analysis measuring the impact of FAST for children aged between five and eight years. Although individual studies reported some positive findings, there was little evidence to suggest that being involved in a FAST programme results in important improvements in the primary outcomes of child school performance, parental substance abuse, or parental stress. No study measured child adverse outcomes. Furthermore, there was little evidence to suggest that FAST leads to important improvements in child behaviour or family relations. 
Study quality 
We judged the certainty of evidence in the included studies for the main review outcomes to be moderate or low risk. Failure to include all families in outcome analyses (attrition) and possible bias in recruitment of families into the trials were the main limitations in the evidence. 
