Psychological interventions for post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) in people with severe mental illness 
Background 
Post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) typically develops after a traumatic event is experienced or witnessed by an individual, or may develop when trauma is experienced by someone close to them. There is growing evidence that people with a severe mental illness (SMI) are vulnerable to developing PTSD due to increased risk of childhood and adulthood trauma. It is estimated that around a third of individuals with SMI also suffer from PTSD. A number of psychological interventions are available for the treatment of PTSD which are collectively known as 'trauma‐focused psychological interventions' (TFPIs). 
Searching for evidence 
We searched the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group Trial's Register in January 2015 and March 2016 and found four relevant studies involving 300 adults diagnosed with both SMI and PTSD. The participants received treatments that included trauma‐focused cognitive behavioural therapy (TF‐CBT), eye movement desensitisation and reprocessing (EMDR), and brief psychoeducation. All of these therapies support individuals to work through and process the memories, emotions and behaviours associated with trauma. 
Key results 
When TF‐CBT was compared to the care usually received, no effect for reducing PTSD, psychotic, depressive or anxiety symptoms or improving quality of life, was noted. There was some low‐quality evidence from two studies that people with SMI and PTSD receiving TF‐CBT were more likely to recover from PTSD, that is, having PTSD symptoms which are below diagnostic threshold. TF‐CBT was not linked to an increase in side effects. 
A comparison of people receiving EMDR against those awaiting treatment showed a favourable effect for reducing the symptoms of PTSD (very low‐quality evidence). Again, there was no difference in side effects. No data were available for the effect of EMDR on quality of life, psychosis, depression or anxiety. 
