Laryngeal mask airway versus bag‐mask ventilation or endotracheal intubation for neonatal resuscitation 
Review questions 
Among all newborns requiring positive pressure ventilation for cardiopulmonary resuscitation, is effective positive pressure ventilation and successful resuscitation achieved faster with the laryngeal mask airway (LMA) compared to bag‐mask ventilation (BMV)? 
When BMV is either insufficient or ineffective, is effective positive pressure ventilation and successful resuscitation achieved faster with LMA compared to endotracheal intubation? 
Background 
Most newborns are vigorous at birth, but a small number need to be helped with breathing (assisted ventilation) in the delivery room. Infants who do not have effective breathing soon after birth can become severely depressed. Providing rapid effective ventilation in the delivery room is very important. Ventilation is often started using a manually‐pumped oxygen bag to force air into a close‐fitting face mask held over the infant's nose and mouth. If breathing remains depressed after using the manual resuscitation bag, a tube is placed directly into the infant's large airway (endotracheal intubation). Bag and mask ventilation and endotracheal intubation may not be possible when infants have airway obstructions or head and face abnormalities that obstruct the normal flow of air into their lungs and/or obstructing the view of the airway by the medical personnel attempting intubation. The LMA is an alternative to bag and mask ventilation and endotracheal intubation. LMA is a small mask attached to a silicone tube fitted into the throat to provide positive pressure ventilation into the airway. 
Study characteristics 
We included seven trials that recruited a total of 794 infants. Our updated search (February 2017) lead to inclusion of six new studies (754 infants). Five studies compared LMA with BMV and three studies compared LMA with endotracheal intubation to provide effective positive pressure ventilation for newborns requiring heart/lung resuscitation. 
