Anaphylaxis is a serious allergic reaction that is rapid in onset and may cause death. It is commonly triggered by a food, insect sting, medication, or natural rubber latex. The reaction typically occurs without warning and can be a frightening and life‐threatening experience for those at risk and for their families and friends. Adrenaline (epinephrine) is widely advocated as the main treatment in people experiencing anaphylaxis and many people at risk of anaphylaxis are prescribed adrenaline auto‐injectors (such as the Adrenaclick, Anapen, Epipen, Jext, and Twinject) so that they or their families can, if needed, administer adrenaline in the community. Potential problems with adrenaline auto‐injector use include failure to carry the auto‐injector at all times; failure to use it because the signs and symptoms of anaphylaxis are not recognized; a preference to use an oral antihistamine; or fear and panic in the emergency. In addition, in many countries adrenaline auto‐injectors are either not available or they are not affordable. The evidence base regarding the effectiveness of adrenaline auto‐injectors is unclear. We therefore conducted a systematic review of the literature, searching key databases for high quality published and unpublished material on the use of adrenaline auto‐injectors during episodes of anaphylaxis in the community. We also contacted the relevant pharmaceutical companies to see if they had any such information on the topic. Our searches found many studies relating to anaphylaxis and adrenaline auto‐injector use but no randomized controlled trials on this subject. We concluded that the use of adrenaline auto‐injectors in anaphylaxis is based on the best available information at present. There is no evidence from randomized controlled trials for the effectiveness of adrenaline auto‐injectors in the emergency treatment of anaphylaxis in the community. Such trials would ideally involve comparison of adrenaline with placebo; however, use of a placebo in anaphylaxis treatment would be unethical. We therefore recommend that auto‐injectors remain the medication of first choice in the treatment of anaphylaxis in the community. 