Does giving chemotherapy before surgery improve survival or quality of life for women with advanced ovarian epithelial cancer? 
What is the issue?Epithelial ovarian cancer, arising from the surface layer of the ovaries or lining of the fallopian tubes, is the ninth most common cancer worldwide in women, and is the most common form of ovarian cancer (approximately 90% of ovarian cancers). Unfortunately, most women with ovarian cancer present at a late stage, when their disease has spread throughout the abdomen. This is because ovarian cancer often arises from the ends of the fallopian tubes, from where single cells can drop out into the abdominal cavity even when the primary tumour is microscopic. These tumour cells circulate around the abdominal cavity in the lubricating peritoneal fluid, implant on other surfaces and grow over time until they cause symptoms. Even then, symptoms, such as bloating and bowel disturbance (most commonly constipation), are nonspecific and easily attributed to more common benign conditions. In Europe and the UK, just over a third of women diagnosed with ovarian cancer are alive five years after diagnosis. 
Conventional treatment for ovarian cancer involves two modalities of treatment: surgery and chemotherapy. The intention of surgery is to stage the disease (assess where the cancer has spread to) and remove as much of the visible (macroscopic) cancer as possible (known as debulking or cytoreduction), preferably to the point where the surgical team is not able to see any visible residual disease in the abdominal cavity. However, since most women will have widespread disease, surgery alone is unlikely to cure the disease and most will also need chemotherapy. Chemotherapy for ovarian cancer uses platinum‐based drugs to treat cells that cannot be removed by surgery (macroscopic disease) or are too small to be seen (microscopic disease). Traditionally, chemotherapy was given after surgery (primary debulking surgery (PDS) and adjuvant chemotherapy) . However, chemotherapy can be used before surgery (known as neoadjuvant chemotherapy (NACT) and interval debulking surgery (IDS)) with the aim of shrinking the cancer and allowing women to get better prior to undertaking major surgery. Women who receive NACT and IDS complete the remaining cycles of chemotherapy following surgery. 
What did we do?We searched electronic databases up to October 2020 and conducted handsearches for unpublished reports of trials. We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) of NACT and IDS versus surgery (primary debulking surgery (PDS)) followed by chemotherapy in women diagnosed with advanced stage epithelial ovarian cancer and pooled study outcome data, where appropriate. 
What did we find?We identified 2227 titles and abstracts from the search. From these, we found five RCTs which met our inclusion criteria, including a total of 1774 women with advanced ovarian cancer. We were able to pool data from four studies. These trials compared women who were given chemotherapy prior to surgery (NACT) with women who underwent surgery first (PDS) prior to chemotherapy. We found little or no difference between the two treatments with respect to the time to death and probably little or no difference in the time to progression of the disease. We found that giving NACT reduces the risk of postoperative mortality and need for stoma formation, for which we have high certainty. NACT probably reduces the risk of some severe complications of surgery, but some of these data were less well reported in the included studies and so we have moderate to low certainty about these results. The studies only enrolled women with stage IIIc/IV ovarian cancer i.e. those who had advanced disease; a large proportion of women in this review had very bulky tumours. We are currently awaiting results of three ongoing studies and one unpublished full publication of a study that is awaiting classification that will hopefully contribute more evidence to guide clinical practice in this area in the future. 
