Are combined aclidinium and long‐acting beta2‐agonist inhalers effective and safe for people with stable COPD? 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a disease of the lungs that causes airways to narrow. As a result, people with COPD experience symptoms of breathlessness and cough with sputum production which worsen over time. It is mainly caused by smoking or inhaling dust. In people with COPD, inhalers that contain medicines to widen the airways are generally given to relieve symptoms. Long‐acting medicines whose action lasts for at least half a day or one day are preferred. Aclidinium and formoterol (a long‐acting beta2‐agonist medicine) are such inhalers. We wanted to find out how a combination of aclidinium and long‐acting beta2‐agonist fare against either inhaler alone and dummy (placebo) inhaler. 
Study characteristics 
We could only identify studies on aclidinium and formoterol combination and included seven studies involving 5921 people with COPD which ranged from four weeks to one year long. Most participants were men in their 60s, moderate‐to‐heavy smokers, around half of whom were current smokers. They had moderate‐to‐severe symptoms of COPD when they started treatment. People in the studies took either combined inhalers containing aclidinium and formoterol or aclidinium or formoterol or placebo through a similar inhaler. Both people doing the research and people in the study did not know which treatment participants were getting. The conclusions of this review are current to October 2018. 
Key results 
People taking combined inhaler and aclidinium inhaler were not different in terms of flare‐ups that need additional medicines, quality of life, hospitalisations, side effects or serious side effects. However, they were less breathless than those taking aclidinium inhaler. Fourteen people with COPD would need to be treated with combined inhalers to have one additional person with a clinically significant improvement in breathlessness. 
People on combined inhalers were likely to have fewer flare‐ups, side effects and symptoms and a better quality of life compared to those taking formoterol inhaler. But, there was little or no difference in hospital admissions due to severe flare‐ups, serious side effects or the risk of dying. 
When compared to dummy inhalers, people taking combined inhalers experienced less breathlessness and better quality of life. Seven people with COPD would need to be treated with combined inhaler to achieve a significant improvement in quality of life than dummy inhaler. For flare‐ups, hospital admissions, side effects, serious side effects and death, there was no difference between combined and dummy inhalers. 
The lungs worked better in people taking combined inhalers than those taking only one drug or dummy inhaler. 
Quality of the evidence 
We had to interpret the results carefully as all the included studies were sponsored by pharmaceutical companies, which could have led to bias. However, the included studies were generally conducted in a systematic and acceptable manner. We are confident that combined inhalers are more effective than single or dummy inhalers at improving breathlessness and lung function. However, we are less certain about its effects on flare‐ups, hospital admissions, quality of life and side effects. 
Conclusion 
Combined inhalers are more effective than individual or dummy inhalers for relieving breathlessness and improving lung performance. They also lead to better quality of life than formoterol or dummy inhalers. However, they are not different from individual or dummy inhalers in terms of flare‐ups or hospital admissions. These combined inhalers have similar safety profiles as individual or dummy inhalers in terms of death, side effects or serious side effects. Combined inhalers probably had lesser side effects and moderate flare‐ups than formoterol, but further studies are needed to confidently support this finding. In summary, the combined inhalers are an effective option for treatment of COPD and appear to have a similar safety profile to individual or dummy inhalers. 
