Training health and social care professionals to work together effectively
Interprofessional education (IPE) is defined as an intervention where the members of more than one health or social care profession, or both, learn interactively together, for the explicit purpose of improving interprofessional collaboration or the health/well being of patients/clients, or both. This review evaluated the effectiveness of IPE compared to educational interventions in which different professional groups were learning separately from one another and IPE compared with interventions in which no IPE was offered to a comparison group. This review was restricted to studies that measured patient outcomes or healthcare processes. This excluded qualitative studies and quantitative studies that reported on the impact that IPE can have on participants' attitudes, knowledge and skills of collaboration. This does not imply that qualitative studies and those focused on attitudes, knowledge and skills do not offer useful insights for certain purposes; simply that they are not the focus of this review. 
Nine studies met the inclusion criteria for the review. These studies were added to the six that we found the last time we updated the review, bringing the total to 15 studies. Seven of these studies reported positive outcomes for healthcare processes or patient outcomes, or both, four studies reported mixed outcomes (positive and neutral) and four reported no effects of IPE. The studies differed in many respects. They were conducted in different areas of clinical practice and included different IPE interventions. The study designs and outcome measures were also different. All 15 studies compared outcomes following an IPE intervention to outcomes, either in similar clinical settings that did not receive the IPE intervention, or in the same clinical setting before the intervention was made. Because no studies compared an interprofessional intervention to a profession‐specific intervention, our understanding of interprofessional interventions is limited. The small number of studies included in this review, and their varied nature, limit our understanding of the key components of IPE and its effectiveness. More studies are needed to allow sound conclusions to be reached about the effectiveness of IPE, as well as to inform IPE policy development. In particular, these should include: first, studies that assess the effectiveness of IPE interventions compared to separate, profession‐specific interventions; second, RCT, CBA or ITS studies with qualitative strands examining processes relating to the IPE and practice changes; third, cost‐benefit analyses. 
