Long‐term effects of radiotherapy for glioma treatment on brain functioning
Background Gliomas are brain tumours that can be very aggressive and result in death within months; however, people with less aggressive gliomas (low‐grade gliomas) can survive for a number of years. Most people are treated with surgery and may also receive radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy. However, radiotherapy can damage healthy brain tissue, and we do not know enough about the possible long‐term effects of radiotherapy on brain functioning, such as memory, communication, concentration and speed of thinking (called neurocognition). Progression of the tumour can also cause deterioration in brain functioning. In this review we looked at the possible long‐term effects of radiotherapy on the brain in adults with less aggressive gliomas who had survived for at least two years after receiving treatment. 
Methods and results We searched for relevant research studies up to 14 November 2018. We only included studies with a control group (i.e. studies that included groups of people that had or had not received radiotherapy or had received different types or doses of radiotherapy). The review includes nine research studies that collected information on long‐term neurocognitive or quality of life outcomes, mostly among people with low‐grade gliomas. Altogether 2406 participants were involved in these studies. The studies looked at five different comparisons including radiotherapy versus no radiotherapy, radiotherapy versus chemotherapy, high‐ versus low‐dose radiotherapy, different types of radiotherapy, and radiotherapy versus chemoradiotherapy. Some evidence suggested that radiotherapy might increase the risk of cognitive impairment compared with no radiotherapy after surgery; however, this and evidence for the other comparisons was not convincing. This was partly because many of the people were not followed up, either because they had died or their disease had progressed, and so the resulting evidence was weak. 
