Medicines to treat delirium in critically ill adult patients
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence from randomized controlled trials for the benefits and safety of all prescription medicines used to treat critically ill adult patients with delirium in the intensive care units (ICUs) of hospitals. 
Background 
Delirium is commonly associated with surgery, infection, or critical illness. It is experienced as new‐onset, generally short‐term inability to think clearly. Patients with delirium shift between periods of clear thinking and periods of agitation and/or great sleepiness and confusion. Lack of sleep, pain, a noisy environment, physical restraint, and the use of sedatives and strong analgesics are some of the contributing factors. Delirium affects both immediate and longer‐term health outcomes of critically ill patients as it can increase the length of time a breathing machine is required, time spent in the ICU and in hospital, and the chance of functional weakening and death. The odds of a poor outcome with delirium are increased with frail patients and those of advanced age and already present cognitive difficulties. Frequently, delirious ICU patients are given medicines to help treat symptoms such as agitation. 
Study characteristics 
This review is current to 21 March 2019. We found 14 randomized controlled studies that enrolled a total of 1844 adult participants. Six different classes of medicines were tested. These were antipsychotic drugs used as tranquillizers in ten studies; the sedative alpha2 agonist dexmedetomidine in three studies; statins that reduce cholesterol in two studies; opioids as part of pain management in one study; serotonin antagonists for nausea and vomiting in one study; and cholinesterase inhibitors, which are medicines for Alzheimer's disease, in one study. Ten studies compared medicine to placebo ‐ an inactive medicine also known as a sugar pill; four studies compared different drugs. Eleven studies with 1153 participants reported on the main outcome of this review ‐ duration of delirium. 
Key findings 
When drug classes were directly compared with placebo, only the alpha2 agonist dexmedetomidine was found to reduce the duration of delirium, and the cholinesterase inhibitor rivastigmine was found to prolong the duration of delirium. Each of these results is based on findings from a single small study. The other drugs when compared to placebo did not change delirium duration. The Review authors used the statistical method of network meta‐analysis to compare the six different drug classes. Dexmedetomidine was ranked most effective in reducing delirium duration, followed by atypical antipsychotics. However, network meta‐analysis of delirium duration failed to rule out the possibility of no difference for all six drug classes compared to placebo. Using this method, we did not find that any drug improved the duration of coma, length of stay, long‐term cognitive outcomes, or death. The alpha2 agonist dexmedetomidine shortened time spent on a breathing machine. Adverse events often were not reported in these trials or were rare when reported. An analysis of reported events showed that events were similar to those reported with placebo. We found 10 ongoing studies and six studies awaiting classification that, once published and assessed, may change the conclusions of this review. 
