Early postnatal discharge from hospital for healthy mothers and term infants
We set out to determine from randomised controlled trials the effects of a policy of early postnatal discharge from hospital for healthy mothers and term infants (born at 37 weeks of pregnancy or later) on maternal, infant and paternal health and related outcomes. 
What is the issue? 
Problems can develop or become clear after the birth of a baby. For example, women can experience excessive bleeding and infections, have problems with initiating breast feeding, and lack confidence in the care of their infants, and the baby may not thrive. In years gone by, women were kept in hospital to prevent or deal with these issues. The length of time women spend in hospital after childbirth has fallen dramatically in many countries over the past 50 years. 
Why is this important? 
It is not known whether having a shorter stay in hospital after birth is beneficial or harmful to women and their newborn infants. Earlier discharge of mothers and their babies has potential advantages, including a familiar environment and better sleep, less exposure to artificial schedules imposed in the hospital environment and decreased exposure to infection risks. However, leaving hospital earlier may result in missed opportunities for breastfeeding and infant care support and identification of infant and maternal health problems following birth. This review of trials compared the policy of early discharge after childbirth with standard length of stay and care at the time of the study. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in May 2021 and identified 17 trials involving 9409 women. The evidence is of low to moderate certainty because of limitations in the ways the studies were conducted. There was considerable variation in how early discharge was defined, ranging from six hours to four to five days. In most of the trials included in this review, early discharge was accompanied by some level of nursing or midwifery support. None of the trials took place in low‐income countries. 
