Alginate dressings for treating pressure ulcers
What are pressure ulcers, and who is at risk? 
Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores, decubitus ulcers and pressure injuries, are wounds involving the skin and sometimes the tissue that lies underneath. Pressure ulcers can be painful, may become infected, and so affect people's quality of life. People at risk of developing pressure ulcers include those with spinal cord injuries, and those who are immobile or who have limited mobility ‐ such as elderly people and people who are ill as a result of short‐term or long‐term medical conditions. 
In 2004 the total annual cost of treating pressure ulcers in the UK was estimated as being GBP 1.4 to 2.1 billion, which was equivalent to 4% of the total National Health Service expenditure. People with pressure ulcers have longer stays in hospital, and this increases hospital costs. Figures from the USA for 2006 suggest that half a million hospital stays had 'pressure ulcer' noted as a diagnosis; the total hospital costs of these stays was USD 11 billion. 
Why use alginate dressings to treat pressure ulcers? 
Dressings are one treatment option for pressure ulcers. There are many types of dressings that can be used; these can vary considerably in cost. Alginate dressings are a type that is highly absorbant and so can absorb the fluid (exudate) that is produced by some ulcers. 
What we found 
In June 2014 we searched for as many relevant studies as we could find that had a robust design (randomised controlled trials) and compared alginate dressings with other treatments for pressure ulcers. We found 6 studies involving a total of 336 participants. Alginates have been compared with hydrocolloid dressings, another type of alginate dressing, dextranomer paste dressing, silver‐alginate dressing, silver‐zinc sulfadiazine cream and treatment with a radiant heat system in these studies. There was no evidence from these studies to suggest that alginate wound dressings are more effective at healing pressure ulcers than other types of dressings or skin surface (topical) treatments, or other interventions. 
Generally, the studies we found did not have many participants and the results were often inconclusive. Some study reports did not provide information about how they were conducted and it was difficult to tell whether the results presented were likely to be true. More research of better quality is needed to find out if alginate dressings are better at healing pressure ulcers than other types of dressings or other treatments. This review is part of a suite of reviews investigating dressings for the treatment of pressure ulcers 
