Cerebrolysin for acute ischaemic stroke
What did we want to know? 
In this Cochrane Review, we wanted to find out how well a medicine called Cerebrolysin works to treat a stroke. 
What is a stroke? 
A stroke is a sudden attack of weakness that usually affects one side of the body. It happens when the flow of blood to part of the brain is cut off, stopping the supply of oxygen and nutrients to the brain cells. If the supply of blood to the brain is stopped, brain cells begin to die. This can lead to brain injury, disability, and possibly death. 
Ischaemic strokes are the most common type of stroke. An ischaemic stroke happens when the flow of blood is blocked by a blood clot or a piece of fatty material in an artery. 
Why is this review important? 
Strokes are a medical emergency, and urgent treatment is essential. Ischaemic strokes are usually treated with a combination of medicines to prevent and dissolve blood clots, reduce blood pressure, and lower cholesterol levels. 
Cerebrolysin is a mixture of proteins purified from the brains of pigs. Some of the proteins in Cerebrolysin are found naturally in the human brain and may help to protect and repair brain cells. Cerebrolysin is commonly used in some countries as a treatment for stroke. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies looking at the use of Cerebrolysin to treat acute ischaemic stroke. We searched for randomised controlled studies, in which the treatment people receive is randomly decided, because these studies give the most reliable evidence about treatments. 
Search date: We included evidence published up to October 2019. 
What we found 
We found seven studies in 1601 people who had had an acute ischaemic stroke. The studies looked at the effect of giving Cerebrolysin alongside medicines to prevent and dissolve blood clots (standard therapy) during the first 48 hours after a stroke. The studies compared this treatment with standard therapy alone or standard therapy plus a dummy treatment (placebo). 
The studies were conducted in hospitals in Austria, Croatia, the Czech Republic, Hungary, Russia, Slovakia, Slovenia, China, Hong Kong, Iran, Myanmar, and South Korea, and lasted from 28 days to 90 days. 
Results of our review 
Adding Cerebrolysin to standard therapy probably makes little or no difference to the risk of dying from any cause after a stroke (6 studies; 1517 people). 
