Acupuncture or acupressure for relieving pain during labour
We examined the evidence from randomised controlled trials on the use of acupuncture or acupressure in helping women to manage pain during labour. This is an update of a review last published in 2011. 
What is the issue? 
The pain women experience during labour can be intense, with body tension, anxiety and fear making it worse. Pain is caused by contractions of the uterus, the opening of the cervix and, in the late first and second stages, by stretching of the vagina and pelvic floor as the baby moves down the birth canal. Effective, satisfactory pain management needs to be individualised for each woman. Women may also use strategies to try to break the fear‐tension‐pain cycle and work with the pain. Working with the pain involves offering women support and encouragement, finding comfortable positions, immersion in water and self‐help techniques. 
Many women would like to go through labour without using drugs. Women may turn to acupuncture or acupressure to help reduce their pain and improve management of the pain. 
Why is this important? 
Acupuncture has a long history of use in Asia, including China, Korea and Japan. Technical needling skills are needed to apply the needles at the correct points. Acupressure also has its origins in early China. To apply acupressure, the therapist uses their hands and fingers to activate the same points as in acupuncture. Sometimes only a few points are needed to alleviate pain or bring about a feeling of relaxation. Other times a combination of points may be required for greater effect. Some forms of acupressure are applied by trained health professionals, while others can be applied by the individual as a form of self‐massage. 
What evidence did we find? 
Our updated search in February 2019 identified 17 new trials.
This review now includes 28 trials reporting on 3960 women, with 27 trials contributing results. The trials compared acupuncture or acupressure with sham treatment as placebo, no treatment or usual care for pain management during labour. Thirteen trials reported on acupuncture and 15 trials reported on acupressure. For 18 of the 27 trials women were in spontaneous labour. In other studies labour may have been induced. 
Eight studies applied individualised traditional Chinese medicine while set acupuncture points were used in the majority of studies. We noted wide variation in how stimulation was applied (manually or with electro‐stimulation), duration of needling, number of points used, and depth of needling. It is unclear how representative the trial treatments were of acupuncture in practice. 
