Accuracy of different non‐invasive methods for identifying Helicobacter pylori 
Why is it important to know whether someone has Helicobacter pylori? 
Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is a type of bacteria which may be present in the stomach of some people. H pylori is believed to cause a number of cancers, including stomach cancer, pancreatic cancer, and throat cancer. H pylori is also linked with other diseases including stomach ulcers, heart burn, and a bloated feeling. If H pylori is found in an individual, appropriate treatment can be started. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To compare the accuracy of three different types of test for H pylori. These are: urea breath tests, blood tests (the specific blood test is called serology), and stool tests (in faeces). 
What was studied in this review? 
There are two types of urea breath test which use two different forms of carbon known as 13C and 14C, as well as multiple versions of serology and stool tests. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 101 studies which included 11,003 people who were tested for H pylori. Of these 11,003 participants, 5839 (53.1%) had H pylori infection. All the studies used one of the three tests listed above and compared these test results with the diagnosis given by endoscopic biopsy. Endoscopic biopsy involves obtaining tissue from the stomach using a thin flexible tube introduced through the mouth and testing for the presence of H pylori under the microscope. It is currently the most accurate available test, however it causes physical discomfort to the patient, with associated risks for harm. This is in contrast to the alternative non‐invasive tests in this review which are significantly less uncomfortable and have minimal or no risk of harm, making them desirable alternatives if they can be shown to be as accurate at diagnosing H pylori as endoscopic biopsy. Most of the studies included participants with heart burn or similar problems in the stomach and excluded participants who had previously undergone partial removal of the stomach and those having treatment for H pylori. 
