Does cleaning venous leg ulcers help them to heal?
Background 
Leg ulcers are open skin wounds that develop below the knee, usually because blood flow is poor in the lower leg. This can occur because of blockages, for example when small blood clots form in the veins. It can also happen when the valves (flaps) in the veins that prevent blood from flowing backwards stop working properly. Poor blood flow damages the skin and tissue, and creates venous leg ulcers. 
Ulcers are unsightly and may become painful or infected. On average, ulcers take from six to nine months to heal. However, some ulcers can take years to heal, and a small number never do. Once ulcers have healed, they can reoccur. 
The main treatment for venous leg ulcers is to use bandages or stockings that compress the leg (compression therapy), to increase blood flow in the veins. It is also thought to be important to clean the wound. Different types of cleaning solutions can be used, including: normal saline; water; antiseptics (solutions that stop or slow down the growth of micro‐organisms such as bacteria); detergents (solutions that remove bacteria and dirt); or disinfectants (solutions such as bleach, that kill micro‐organisms). 
Cleaning solutions can be applied to the ulcer using a swab (similar to a cotton bud), a syringe with a needle, or a spray canister. Ulcers can also be bathed in the cleaning solution, using a basin or bucket, or during a shower. Cleaning can cause discomfort, and may be painful. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out:
‐ whether cleaning venous leg ulcers helps them to become smaller and heal;
‐ whether some cleaning solutions, or methods of applying solutions, are more effective than others; 
‐ which cleaning solution people prefer and find easiest to use;
‐ whether cleaning wounds has an impact on quality of life;
‐ how much cleaning wounds costs; and
‐ whether cleaning wounds is associated with adverse (unwanted) effects such as pain, infection or skin damage. 
Our methods 
First, we searched for randomised controlled studies (clinical studies where the treatment or care people receive is chosen at random). These studies provide the most reliable health evidence about the effects of a treatment. We then compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
