Exercise versus airway clearance for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
Can exercise replace other methods of airway clearance for people with cystic fibrosis (CF)? 
Background 
CF affects many systems in the body, mainly the respiratory system. It causes a build‐up of thick, sticky mucus in the lungs which causes irritation and damage to the lining of the airways. CF treatment involves chest physiotherapy, also called airway clearance, which uses a range of devices or techniques to get rid of this mucus. It has been suggested that exercise may have a similar effect. Exercising results in a person taking different volumes and depths of breaths. This leads to pressure changes and forces within the airways that move secretions out of the lungs. We compared the effect on lung function of exercise versus other techniques, to see if exercise is a suitable alternative for people with CF. We wanted to answer our review question to potentially reduce their treatment burden. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 15 February 2022.
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature for studies where people received at least two treatment sessions of exercise or another airway clearance technique, and report on four studies including 86 people with CF in the review. The people in the studies were aged between 7 and 41 years and had varying degrees of disease severity. Three studies included people who were clinically well and one study included people admitted to hospital for a chest infection. The studies lasted between four days and six months and compared exercise (alone or in combination with another airway clearance technique) to other techniques. Two studies compared exercise with postural drainage and percussion (PD&P), one study compared exercise with the active cycle of breathing technique (ACBT) and one study compared exercise with underwater positive expiratory pressure (uPEP), also known as bubble PEP. Three studies received financial support from funding bodies such as the Cystic Fibrosis Trust, the Buffalo Foundation and the Romanian National Council for Scientific Research in Higher Education. 
Key results 
We did not find enough evidence to conclude whether or not exercise can replace other methods of airway clearance. We did not find any evidence to suggest that exercise was either better or worse than other methods to improve lung function or clear mucus from the airways, although exercising did improve people's exercise ability, and it was the preferred choice of treatment in one study. None of the studies reported any negative effects of exercise therapy. None of the studies evaluated quality of life or the need for extra antibiotic treatment. One study did suggest that exercise alone was less effective at clearing sputum than ACBT. 
Exercise versus ACBT 
One study (18 participants) found that a measure of lung function temporarily (up to 30 minutes) increased in the exercise group only, otherwise there was no difference between the ACBT or the exercise group. No adverse events were reported, and it is not certain if ACBT was thought to be more effective or was preferred. The exercise group produced less sputum than the ACBT group. The study did not report on exercise capacity, quality of life, adherence, hospitalisations and need for additional antibiotics. 
Exercise plus PD&P versus PD&P alone 
Two studies (55 participants) compared exercise plus PD&P to PD&P alone. At two weeks, one trial described a greater increase in lung function with PD&P alone, while at six months the second study reported a greater increase with exercise plus PD&P (but did not provide data for the PD&P group). One study reported no side effects at all, and also reported no difference between groups in exercise capacity (maximal work rate), sputum volume or the average length of time spent in hospital. Conversely, the second study reported fewer hospitalisations due to exacerbations in the exercise and PD&P group. Neither study reported on quality of life, preference and the need for antibiotics. 
Exercise versus uPEP 
One study (13 participants) compared exercise to uPEP (also known as bubble PEP). No adverse events were recorded in either group and investigators reported that those taking part thought that, while exercise was more tiring, it was also more enjoyable than bubble PEP. We found no differences in the total weight of sputum collected during treatment sessions. The study did not report on lung function, quality of life, exercise capacity, adherence, need for antibiotics or hospitalisations. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, we had very little confidence in the evidence because all four studies had few participants and two studies only presented results as a shortened report given at a conference.  
