Can exercise, for women with gestational diabetes, improve outcomes for mother and her baby? 
What is the issue? 
A previous Cochrane review on Exercise for diabetic pregnant women included women with pre‐existing diabetes and women with gestational diabetes. That review has now been split into two new reviews on: exercise for pregnant women with gestational diabetes (this review) and exercise for pregnant women with pre‐existing diabetes (the subject of another new review). 
There will be similarities in the background, methods and outcomes between these two systematic reviews. 
Gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), or diabetes during pregnancy, has both short‐ and long‐term complications for the mother and her baby. Women with GDM are at an increased chance of developing high blood pressure or pre‐eclampsia during pregnancy, having their labour induced, giving birth by caesarean section, and experiencing perineal trauma. In the long term, up to half of women with GDM are likely to develop type 2 diabetes. Their babies are at increased risk of being born large‐for‐gestational age, experiencing a birth injury and being admitted to the neonatal intensive care unit. They are also more likely to develop metabolic syndrome in childhood and later life. 
Why is this important? 
Exercise may help to control blood sugar levels and improve outcomes for the mother and her baby, possibly leading to long‐term health benefits. Physical activity for this review is planned, structured and repetitive body movements undertaken to improve physical fitness. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials in August 2016. We identified 11 trials that involved 638 pregnant women. They were conducted in middle‐or high‐income countries. We judged the overall risk of bias in the trials as unclear because of a lack of information about how the trials were conducted. Using GRADE, the quality of the evidence from the trials ranged from high to low quality. The main reasons for downgrading the quality were for risk of bias in the trials and imprecise effect sizes, low event rates and small numbers of participants. 
