Pentoxifylline for women with endometriosis
Review question 
We reviewed the effectiveness and safety of treating women with known endometriosis with pentoxifylline to find out if it improves pain symptoms and fertility outcomes. Pentoxifylline is an immunomodulator (a substance that has an effect on the immune system) that might offer an alternative approach for treating this condition. We aimed to compare pentoxifylline to no treatment or placebo (dummy treatment), other medical treatment, or surgical treatment.   
Background 
Endometriosis is a painful condition where endometrium‐like tissue (tissue similar to the lining of the uterus) grows outside of the uterus, possibly affecting a woman's ability to conceive. Recent studies support the influence of the immune system on this disease. Pentoxifylline is an immunomodulator drug that also has anti‐inflammatory (reducing inflammation) activity, which may relieve the symptoms of the disease without preventing ovulation. 
Study characteristics 
We included 5 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) that compared pentoxifylline with placebo or no treatment or other medical treatment, in a total of 415 women. The evidence is current to 16 December 2020. 
Key results 
There was not enough evidence to permit any conclusions about the effectiveness and safety of pentoxifylline in terms of fertility and pain relief outcomes in women with endometriosis. No studies reported on the primary outcome of live birth rate or on adverse events (side effects). 
Pentoxifylline versus placebo 
We are uncertain as to whether pentoxifylline affects clinical pregnancy rate, recurrence rate of endometriosis, or miscarriage rate when compared with placebo. Data on other outcomes were lacking. 
Pentoxifylline versus no treatment 
We are uncertain as to whether pentoxifylline affects overall pain compared to no treatment. Data on other outcomes were lacking. 
We were unable to extract data from any studies comparing pentoxifylline to other medical therapies, and there were no studies comparing pentoxifylline to surgical treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of evidence was very low. The main limitations in the evidence were lack of intention‐to‐treat analysis (an assessment of all people taking part in a trial, based on the group to which they had initially (and randomly) been allocated to, regardless of whether or not they dropped out, fully adhered to the treatment, or switched to an alternative treatment); lack of blinding (the process where both women participating in the trial and research staff are kept unaware of the treatment used); and imprecision (random error and small size of some studies). 
