Guided imagery for treating hypertension in pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Some women have long‐term high blood pressure, or hypertension, whereas approximately 10% of pregnant women develop high blood pressure as a complication of pregnancy. Guided imagery is a mind‐body therapy that involves the visualisation of various mental images to facilitate relaxation and reduction in blood pressure. It can be performed by oneself, one‐to‐one, or in groups with an instructor using audio or scripts. 
Why is this important? 
High blood pressure during pregnancy is associated with an increased risk of the mother developing pre‐eclampsia with proteinuria, eclampsia with seizures and liver and blood disorders, and kidney failure. The baby of a pregnant woman with high blood pressure is more likely to be born too soon, be too small, and may need neonatal intensive care. High blood pressure drugs are recommended for women with severe high blood pressure and pre‐eclampsia because of the risk of life‐threatening complications, but such drugs can have adverse effects for the mother (including headache, decreased mental alertness, and exercise intolerance). Such drugs can also cross the placenta and may affect the unborn baby, and are not generally recommended for pregnant women with mild to moderate high blood pressure, which is when other ways of managing blood pressure are sought. 
Guided imagery is a non‐pharmacological technique that could potentially lower blood pressure among pregnant women with hypertension and improve pregnancy outcomes for the mother and her baby. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (October 2018) and found two trials (involving 99 women) conducted in Canada and the USA. Both trials compared guided imagery with quiet rest. There were no trials comparing guided imagery with no intervention, or other with another non‐pharmacological method for hypertension. 
The two included studies reported different outcomes and the Intervention frequency was slightly different between the two studies. One study performed guided imagery for 15 minutes at least twice daily for four weeks or until the baby was born (whichever came first). The other study involved guided imagery, self‐monitoring of blood pressure, and thermal biofeedback‐assisted relaxation training for a total of four hours; the women were instructed to practice the procedures twice daily and complete at least three relaxation breaks each day. The control groups between the two studies were similar ‐ one used quiet rest and the other used quiet rest as bed rest. 
Neither trial reported data for our main outcomes of interest: severe hypertension, severe pre‐eclampsia, or death of the baby during birth or within the first week of life. The trials provided data for only one of our secondary outcomes of interest. 
Low‐certainty evidence from the one trial (69 women) suggests that, compared with quiet rest, guided imagery may make little or no difference in the use of antihypertensive drugs. 
