Does a local anaesthetic injection in children and young people having dental treatment under general anaesthetic reduce pain after treatment? 
Review question 
Do injections of local anaesthetic given whilst children and young people (aged 17 years or younger) are having dental treatment under general anaesthetic reduce the amount of pain felt afterwards? 
Background 
It can be difficult when giving dental treatment to children and young people to do it simply using a local anaesthetic (LA) injection. The problem is often that they are too anxious or that they need a lot of treatment at once: For example, they may need many teeth taken out at the same time. In these circumstances, a dental practitioner commonly uses a general anaesthetic (GA) and administers the treatment in a hospital. In England, there are over 30,000 hospital admissions per year for children who need teeth taken out under a GA. 
Problems often arise following this treatment and the most common is pain, the experience of which can cause an emotional as well as a physical response. The experience can make it more difficult for the dental practitioner to give the treatment needed, and it can also cause the child or young person to avoid dental treatment. It is thought that giving LA injections during dental treatment under GA will result in numbness and therefore pain not being felt for a couple of hours, after which time painkillers can control the pain. However, it is not clear what the benefits of using LA in this way are. Some undesired side‐effects, such as discomfort; dribbling, and accidental lip biting, have been reported. Also, because painkillers are often used as well, the effect of the LA is not clearly defined. Additionally, it is important to clarify the best doses and kind of injections to use to achieve the maximum benefit. 
Study characteristics. 
The Cochrane Oral Health Group carried out this review and the evidence on which it is based was up‐to‐date on 2 January 2014. We included 14 studies, which took place from 1990 to 2009 in the UK, Egypt, Saudi Arabia, and the USA. These included 1152 participants aged from 2 to 40 years. 
Key results 
Although the 14 studies included addressed our research question, they differed in the way that they delivered the intervention and what they measured. This meant we could not combine their data in our analyses. The results from individual studies for pain, bleeding, and other adverse effects were uncertain. The use of additional different painkillers may have hidden the effect of the LA. 
Further high‐quality trials are needed in order to assess the benefits or harms of LA given to children and young people whilst they are receiving dental treatment under GA. Issues that these trials need to address include local side‐effects (e.g., excessive dribbling and accidental lip biting), side‐effects on other parts of the body (e.g., the heart), participant and parent satisfaction, dosage, type of anaesthetic, and the effects of extra painkillers (e.g., paracetamol). 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the 14 included studies was variable. We assessed three studies as being at overall risk of high bias, seven at unclear risk of bias, and four at low risk of bias. 
