Comparison of surgical procedures for women diagnosed with precancerous changes of the vulva (high‐grade vulval intraepithelial neoplasia) 
Background 
Vulval intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN) is regarded as a precancerous condition of the skin of the vulva that may further develop into vulval cancer. The condition is usually treated by surgery. The various surgical techniques currently available are either ablative (where the lesion is removed by destruction of tissue using an energy source) or excisional (the lesion is simply 'cut out'); sometimes a combination of the two may be used. There is currently no consensus as to which surgical technique is the most effective and safe. The treatment options available to the individual with VIN are currently based on the preference of the treating physician and his/her skills, and these vary both nationally and internationally. Because there is a high risk of the condition recurring after surgery, multiple treatments may be required. Hence, various conservative surgical and medical modalities of treatment are currently being explored. 
Review question 
To evaluate the effectiveness and safety of surgical interventions in women with high‐grade vulval intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN). 
Main findings 
This review is based on one randomised controlled trial (RCT) which included 30 participants and therefore the results are restricted to the analyses of a single study. This RCT compared two ablative techniques: carbon dioxide (CO2) laser surgery and cavitational ultrasonic surgical aspiration (CUSA). There was no evidence for differences in the risks of disease recurrence after one year follow up, pain, scarring, painful/uncomfortable urination (dysuria) or burning on urination, adhesions (fusion of the 'lips' or labia as part of the healing process by the formation of bridges of tissue), infection, abnormal discharge or the presence of dead tissue shedding from healthy skin (eschar) between women who received CO2 laser surgery and those who underwent CUSA. 
Quality of the evidence 
Due to the small number of participants with high‐grade VIN included in the trial there was insufficient evidence to conclude that either surgical technique is superior over the other. This review highlights the need for further high‐quality, well‐designed trials. 
