Grommets for children with recurring acute middle ear infections
Review question 
Do children with recurring acute middle ear infections benefit from placement of grommets in both ears (with or without surgical removal of the adenoids at the same time)? 
Background 
An acute middle ear infection is one of the most common childhood illnesses. While most children have an occasional episode, some suffer from recurring ear infections (three or more infections over a period of a six months, or four or more in a year). Such recurring infections cause considerable distress through frequent ear pain, fever, general illness, sleepless nights and time lost from nursery or school for the child and from work for their carers. Grommets, also known as ventilation or tympanostomy tubes, can be offered as a treatment. They are tiny plastic tubes put into the eardrum by an ENT surgeon during a short operation. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes evidence up to 4 December 2017. We included five randomised controlled trials with a total of 805 children with recurring acute middle ear infections. All studies were performed before the introduction of vaccination against pneumococcus, a bacterium that commonly causes ear infections. Surgical removal of the adenoids was not performed in both groups in any of the trials. 
Key results 
We primarily looked at the difference in the proportion of children who had no further acute middle ear infections at three to six months follow‐up (intermediate‐term), and who had a persisting perforation (hole) in the ear drum. We also looked at some other outcomes, including the proportion of children who had no further episodes of acute middle ear infection. 
Grommets versus active monitoring 
We found low‐quality evidence that fewer children who were treated with grommets had further episodes of ear infection at six and 12 months follow‐up than those managed with active monitoring; three and eight children needed to be treated with grommets to benefit one, respectively. The number of ear infections at six and 12 months follow‐up was also lower in the grommets group; the difference was, however, at best modest with around one fewer episode at six months and a less noticeable effect by 12 months (low to very low‐quality evidence). Children treated with grommets did not have better quality of life at four or 12 months follow‐up (low‐quality evidence). 
