Which method of determining MGMT promoter methylation best predicts survival in people with glioblastoma treated with temozolomide? 
What was the aim of this review? 
Glioblastoma is a very aggressive type of brain cancer. People with glioblastoma are usually treated with surgical removal of the tumour followed by radiotherapy, chemotherapy, or both. The standard chemotherapy is a medicine called temozolomide. Some glioblastoma tumours have a particular modification in their DNA (which contains the genetic code of organisms), and knowing whether a person has this modification is useful to predict how long the person may live after their diagnosis with cancer and how they may respond to temozolomide. The modification is known as 'methylation of the MGMT promoter region' and it can also affect MGMT protein expression (the way MGMT is made and modified). There are many ways to work out whether a tumour has this modification. In this review, we attempted to work out which method is best. 
What we found 
We identified 32 studies comparing different ways to measure whether the MGMT promoter region is methylated. The main three methods were called 'methylation‐specific polymerase chain reaction (PCR),' 'pyrosequencing' (both of which look directly at the MGMT promoter region) and 'immunohistochemistry' (which looks at MGMT protein expression). We found that methylation‐specific PCR and pyrosequencing are better at predicting overall survival than immunohistochemistry. Methylation‐specific PCR and pyrosequencing can be carried out by targeting different parts of the tumour DNA. Pyrosequencing can be performed using different cut‐off thresholds to determine whether a tumour is methylated or unmethylated. We did not identify very clear signals in terms of the best parts of the DNA to target or which are the best cut‐off thresholds. 
How reliable are results of the studies in this review? 
We rated our confidence in the evidence as 'moderate' for our conclusions about methylation‐specific PCR, but as 'low' for pyrosequencing. Although there were many studies, they all looked at different variants of the methods, so it is difficult to work out exactly which variant is best. 
