Does stopping smoking improve mental health?
Smoking and mental health 
Some health providers and people who smoke believe that smoking helps reduce stress and other mental health symptoms, like depression and anxiety. They worry that stopping smoking may make mental health symptoms worse. However, studies have shown that smoking may have a negative impact on people's mental health, and stopping smoking could reduce anxiety and depression.   
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out how stopping smoking affects people's mental health. If stopping smoking improves mental health symptoms, rather than worsening them, then this may encourage more people to try to quit smoking and more health professionals to help their patients to quit. It may also discourage people from beginning to smoke tobacco in the first place.   
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that lasted for at least six weeks that included people who were smoking at the start of the studies. To be included, studies also had to measure whether people did or did not stop smoking and any changes in mental health during the study. 
We were interested in how stopping smoking affected:
‐ symptoms of anxiety;
‐ symptoms of depression;
‐ symptoms of anxiety and depression together;
‐ symptoms of stress;
‐ overall well‐being;
‐ mental health problems;
‐ social well‐being, personal relationships, isolation and loneliness.
Search date: we included evidence published up to 7 January 2020. 
What we found 
We found 102 studies in more than 169,500 people: some studies did not clearly report how many people took part. The studies used a range of different assessment scales to measure people's mental health symptoms.  
Most studies included people from the general population (53 studies); 23 studies included people with mental health conditions; other studies included people with physical or mental health conditions, or long‐lasting physical conditions, who had recently had surgery, or who were pregnant. 
We combined and compared the results from 63 studies that measured changes in mental health symptoms, and from 10 studies that measured how many people developed a mental health disorder during the study. 
What are the results of our review? 
Compared with people who continued to smoke, people who stopped smoking showed greater reductions in: 
‐ anxiety (evidence from 3141 people in 15 studies);
‐ depression (7156 people in 34 studies); and
‐ mixed anxiety and depression (2829 people in 8 studies).
Our confidence in our results was very low (for depression), low (for anxiety), and moderate (for mixed anxiety and depression). Our confidence was reduced because we found limitations in the ways the studies were designed and carried out. 
Compared with people who continued to smoke, people who stopped smoking showed greater improvements in: 
‐ symptoms of stress (evidence from 4 studies in 1792 people);
‐ positive feelings (13 studies in 4880 people); and
‐ mental well‐being (19 studies in 18,034 people).
There was also evidence that people who stopped smoking did not have a reduction in their social well‐being, and their social well‐being may have increased slightly (9 studies in 14,673 people). 
