Accessing the bile duct by inserting a guidewire into the pancreatic duct to prevent inflammation of the pancreas after endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) 
Review question 
To compare the effects of the pancreatic duct guidewire (PGW) technique with other endoscopic techniques for gaining access to the bile duct when access to the bile duct is considered to be difficult using traditional techniques. 
Background 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) combines endoscopy and X‐ray to diagnose and treat problems of the bile ducts and pancreatic ducts. An endoscope is passed down the oesophagus, through the stomach, and into the duodenum where the opening of the bile and pancreatic ducts (papilla) is located. A catheter is then inserted through the endoscope and through the papilla into the bile duct. Dye is injected into the bile duct, and X‐rays are taken to look for gallstones or blockage. The major risk of ERCP is the development of inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis) by the dye or catheter, which occurs in 5% to 10% of all procedures. There is also a small risk of bleeding or making a hole in the bowel wall. 
There are two traditional techniques for gaining access to the bile duct during ERCP. The first technique involves inserting a catheter directly into the papilla and injecting dye to confirm access to the bile duct, and the second involves the use of a guidewire to probe the papilla to gain access to the bile duct. Once the guidewire is confirmed on X‐ray to be in the bile duct, dye is injected into the bile duct. 
When accessing the bile duct using traditional techniques is difficult, the endoscopist can persist with the traditional techniques or use more advanced techniques such as blind incision into the papilla (precut sphincterotomy) or insertion of a stent into the pancreatic duct (PD) to facilitate access to the bile duct. The PGW placement technique is a new technique to gain access to the bile duct and to reduce the risk of postprocedure pancreatitis in people in whom traditional techniques fail to gain access to the bile duct. The PGW technique involves inserting a first guidewire deep into the PD. A second guidewire is then used to probe the papilla to gain access to the bile duct. The first guidewire facilitates access to the bile duct by blocking the PD opening. 
