Treatment for postpolio syndrome
Review question 
What are the effects of different treatments in people with postpolio syndrome (PPS)?
Background 
PPS is a condition that can affect polio survivors years after recovery from an initial paralytic attack by the polio virus. PPS is characterised by progressive or new muscle weakness or decreased muscle endurance in muscles that were previously affected by the polio infection and in muscles that were seemingly unaffected. Other symptoms may include generalised fatigue and pain. These symptoms often lead to a decline in physical functioning, for example trouble walking. The objective of this review was to assess the benefits and harms of different drugs and rehabilitation treatments compared to placebo (a pill or procedure without any physiological effect), usual care or no treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases to find all studies on treatments for PPS up to July 2014. We found 13 studies involving a total of 675 participants that were of sufficient quality to include in this review. Ten studies evaluated the effects of drugs (modafinil, intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), pyridostigmine, lamotrigine, amantadine, prednisone), and three studies evaluated other treatments (muscle strengthening, rehabilitation in a warm climate (that is temperature ± 25°C, dry and sunny) and a cold climate (that is temperature ± 0°C, rainy or snowy), static magnetic fields). 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
IVIg is a treatment in which antibodies that have been purified from donated blood are given as an infusion into a vein over a period of time. There was moderate‐ and low‐quality evidence that IVIg has no beneficial effect on activity limitations in the short term and long term, respectively. Evidence for effectiveness on muscle strength was inconsistent, as results differed across studies. IVIg caused minor side effects in a substantial proportion of the participants. 
Lamotrigine is a drug used to help control certain kinds of epilepsy and to treat bipolar psychiatric disorder. Results of one trial provided very low‐quality evidence that lamotrigine might be effective in reducing pain and fatigue, resulting in fewer activity limitations, and in this study it was well‐tolerated. We based these conclusions on results of only one small trial with important limitations in study design. 
There was very low‐quality evidence that muscle strengthening of thumb muscles is safe and beneficial for improving muscle strength. Again, we based these conclusions on results of only one small trial with important limitations in study design, and they are applicable only to thumb muscles. 
Static magnetic fields is a therapy in which electrical currents are applied to the skin with the intention of reducing pain. There was moderate‐quality evidence that static magnetic fields are safe and beneficial for reducing pain directly after treatment, although functional effects on activity limitations and long‐term effects are unknown. 
