Induced hypotension with propofol under anaesthesia during endoscopic sinus surgery
Review question 
Does the evidence support the use of propofol as an effective drug in reducing total blood loss and improving quality of the surgical field in people undergoing functional endoscopic sinus surgery (FESS) with induced hypotension, compared to inhalational (gas) anaesthetics and other drugs? This review updates the evidence published in 2013, and is current to February 2016. 
Background 
FESS is a minimally invasive technique used to treat patients with chronic sinusitis (inflammation of the mucous membrane in the air cavities within the facial bones, and fluid within the cavity for more than 12 weeks). The surgeon uses a miniature camera in the nose to get a close‐up view of the sinuses. The main problem is that bleeding during the operation will obscure the view and cause the procedure to take longer, with an increased risk of damage to the surrounding structures (eyes and brain). One method for reducing bleeding under general anaesthesia is induced hypotension, which involves deliberately lowering the blood pressure to below normal in order to improve the surgical field. However, lowering the blood pressure carries its own risks including permanent brain damage, delayed awakening, blood clot in the brain, insufficient blood flow to the brain, and death. Propofol (an anaesthetic drug given intravenously) and volatile anaesthetic agents (given as inhaled gas) are alternative methods for reducing blood pressure during the anaesthetic period. 
Study characteristics 
We included four studies in our review (278 participants). The studies were conducted between 2003 and 2010. Although all four included studies were randomized, some elements of their methodology suggest a low to unclear risk of bias in all trials. 
Key results 
We found that propofol did not reduce measured overall blood loss in either children or adults (2 studies; 158 participants). Propofol might improve the quality of the surgical field a little (4 studies; 277 participants), but there was no difference in operation time (3 studies; 214 participants). Propofol was more reliable in achieving induced hypotension (1 study; 88 participants). No studies reported any adverse effects from induced hypotension with propofol. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found only four studies, which included a small total number of participants. The evidence from the studies were of moderate to very low quality, and therefore our results should be interpreted with caution. More studies are needed to confirm whether any important benefit is associated with the use of propofol. 
