Use of drug and non‐drug interventions to reduce pain associated with rocuronium bromide injection in patients undergoing general anaesthesia 
Review question 
What is the effect of using drug or non‐drug treatments (such as diluting the rocuronium or warming the site of injection) for reducing the pain associated with injecting the muscle relaxant rocuronium bromide in children and adults? 
Background 
Rocuronium bromide is a muscle relaxant used as part of general anaesthesia for surgery. Muscle relaxants are used to relax the muscles of the airway to enable endotracheal intubation (placing a breathing tube in the windpipe to support the airway while the person is unconscious) and to facilitate the surgery. However, rocuronium bromide can cause intense pain as it is injected in some people. We wanted to find out whether giving another drug, such as a painkiller or another anaesthetic, or a non‐drug intervention, such as diluting the rocuronium, would be useful in reducing the pain experienced by some people on injection of rocuronium. 
Study characteristics 
We included trials up to July 2013 in our review. We re‐ran the searches in February 2015. In total there are 17 studies awaiting classification. We included 66 studies with 7840 participants, both male and female, and including children and adults. Most of these participants were undergoing various planned surgical procedures in hospitals in several countries including Korea, Turkey and India. The trials compared an intervention aiming to reduce pain on injection with a placebo to ascertain whether any intervention was effective at reducing pain. The outcome was assessed by recording the level of pain reported by patients when injected with rocuronium bromide. 
Key results 
The most studied treatments were injection of the local anaesthetic lidocaine, or the painkillers fentanyl or remifentanil, into the vein before injecting rocuronium. These treatments may reduce the pain associated with injecting rocuronium, but the evidence is of low quality. Some interventions, for example using painkillers such as fentanyl, may increase cough, chest tightness and breath holding. These are recognized side effects of these drugs. 
Quality of the evidence 
The low quality of the evidence for the assessment of changes in the level of pain was due to inadequate reporting of study design and variation in the study results. In addition to these limitations, for some adverse event outcomes we did not have enough information to be certain about the average effect. Further research is needed with high quality, well designed studies to determine whether pain on injection of rocuronium bromide can be reduced by using an appropriate intervention. 
