Comparing the effect of different courses of radiotherapy to the chest for patients with incurable lung cancer 
Review Question 
What is the best way to give radiotherapy to patients with incurable lung cancer. What doses give the best balance between symptom control and side effects? Does giving more radiotherapy improve the chance of a patient being alive in one or two years? 
Background 
In most developed countries lung cancer is one of the commonest tumours. Only 10 to 20% of patients can have surgery with a chance of cure. For many of the rest radiotherapy to the chest is used to relieve symptoms of cough, breathlessness and pain. The number of radiotherapy treatments given and the dose of each treatment varies widely around the world. Since the late 1980s, many trials have tried to answer which is the best radiotherapy schedule to relieve symptoms without causing too many side‐effects. 
Study Characteristics 
Fourteen trials, including 3576 patients, were found that compared at least two different radiotherapy regimens. All involved patients with incurable lung cancer but the extent of the cancer and the fitness of the patients varied between the studies making direct comparisons difficult.The radiotherapy regimens in the trials varied from a single treatment to thirty treatments over six weeks.This update found no new trials and a meta‐analysis (pooling the results of all trials) was carried out to see whether giving higher doses of radiation resulted in longer survival. 
All trials reported how long patients lived after their treatment and looked at the effect on symptoms as well as recording side‐effects. However, the trials did not use the same methods for recording symptoms and side effects with some using the doctor's assessment and some using the patient's, making direct comparison difficult. 
Key Results 
This review shows that for most patients, a short course of radiotherapy with only one or two visits, improves common symptoms as effectively as longer courses, without more side effects. There is no strong evidence to support the view that a longer course of radiotherapy may give a better chance of living for one or two years, but it does result in more immediate side effects, especially sore swallowing. 
