Inspiratory muscle training for asthma
Review question 
We wanted to find out if inspiratory muscle training (IMT) using an external resistive device is better than no treatment (or usual care) in people with chronic asthma. An external resistive device is something that makes it harder for the patient to breathe in. The idea is that doing breathing exercises with a device that makes it harder to breathe in helps to strengthen the muscles of respiration (for example like lifting a weight) and strengthens the muscles that pump air into the lungs. This would make it easier for the person to breathe during day‐to‐day life. This review aimed to explore the effect of IMT in asthma. 
Background 
Asthma is the most common chronic disease found in children and young adults. Clinically, asthma is characterized by symptoms of shortness of breath, wheeze and cough, and episodes of worsening of symptoms. The objective of asthma treatment is to achieve and maintain control of the disease and to reduce symptoms. In most cases the symptoms can be controlled with inhalers, but IMT may assist treatment. For people with other chronic respiratory diseases, IMT significantly increases the strength of the inspiratory muscles, reduces dyspnoea and improves quality of life. It is unclear whether inspiratory muscle training has similar benefits in individuals with asthma. 
Study characteristics 
We found and included five studies in our review. Three studies were conducted by the same group of researchers in Israel (Weiner 2000; Weiner 2002; Weiner 2002a), one study (Sampaio 2002) was conducted in Brazil and one trial was conduced in the United Kingdom (McConnell 1998). A total of 113 adults with asthma (46 male and 67 female) were included. No study included children. 
Key results 
The studies showed a significant improvement in inspiratory muscle strength (PImax). People with asthma who received IMT on average increased their inspiratory muscle strength, but it was not possible to state whether this improvement seen in inspiratory muscle strength translated into any clinical benefit. Results from one study showed no significant difference between the training group and the control group (no treatment or usual care) for expiratory muscle strength, lung function, sensation of dyspnoea (breathlessness) and use of reliever medication. There were no studies describing exacerbation events that required use of reliever medication or emergency department visits, inspiratory muscle endurance, hospital admissions and days off work or school. Given the insufficient evidence found in this review, we believe that there is a need for more well conducted studies in order to assess the efficacy of IMT in people with asthma, including children. 
