Pain relief for women undergoing oocyte retrieval for assisted reproduction
Review question 
Cochrane review authors investigated the effectiveness and safety of methods used for pain relief in women during transvaginal oocyte retrieval ‐ a technique used to collect eggs from the ovaries, to enable fertilisation outside the body. 
Background 
Conscious sedation comprises use of a drug or drugs to produce a state of relaxation enabling treatment to be carried out, during which verbal contact with the patient is maintained throughout the period of sedation. Conscious sedation and analgesia are methods used to relieve pain during surgery to retrieve eggs from the ovaries as part of in vitro (i.e. in an artificial environment such as a laboratory) fertilisation procedures. Concerns include that drugs used for sedation and pain relief may have an adverse effect on pregnancy rates. 
Study characteristics 
This review identified 24 randomised controlled trials, involving 3160 women, comparing the effects of five different methods of conscious sedation and pain relief including general anaesthesia. A randomised controlled trial uses research methods that aim to reduce bias when a new treatment is tested by allocating participants at random (i.e. by chance alone) to treatment or control treatment. The evidence is current to November 2017. 
Key results 
The evidence does not support one particular method or technique over another in providing effective conscious sedation and analgesia for pain relief during and after oocyte retrieval. Simultaneous use of sedation combined with analgesia such as the opiates, further enhanced by techniques of paracervical block or acupuncture, resulted in better pain relief than occurred with one method alone. Evidence was insufficient to show conclusively whether any of the interventions influenced pregnancy rates. All techniques reviewed were associated with a high degree of patient satisfaction. It would be appropriate to consider women’s preferences and choice of resources available for pain relief in practice. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence is generally of low or very low quality, mainly owing to poor reporting methods and small sample sizes with low event rates. As women vary in their experience of pain and awareness of coping strategies, the optimal method may be individualised. 
