Motor control exercise for chronic non‐specific low‐back pain
Review question 
To evaluate the effectiveness of motor control exercise (MCE) in patients with chronic non‐specific low back pain (LBP). 
Background 
Motor control exercise is a popular form of exercise that aims to restore co‐ordinated and efficient use of the muscles that control and support the spine. Patients are initially guided by a therapist to practise normal use of the muscles during simple tasks. As the patient's skill increases the exercises are progressed to more complex and functional tasks involving the muscles of the trunk and limbs. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to April 2015.
Study characteristics 
In total, 2431 participants were enrolled in 29 trials. The study sample sizes ranged from 20 to 323 participants, and most of them were middle‐aged people recruited from primary or tertiary care. The duration of the treatment programmes ranged from 20 days to 12 weeks, and the number of treatment sessions ranged from one to five sessions per week. Sixteen trials compared MCE with other types of exercises, seven trials compared MCE with minimal intervention, five trials compared MCE with manual therapy, three trials compared MCE with a combination of exercise and electrophysical agents, and one trial compared MCE with telerehabilitation based on home exercises. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
MCE probably provides better improvements in pain, function and global impression of recovery than minimal intervention at all follow‐up periods. MCE may provide slightly better improvements than exercise and electrophysical agents for pain, disability, global impression of recovery and the physical component of quality of life in the short and intermediate term. There is probably little or no difference between MCE and manual therapy for all outcomes and follow‐up periods. Little or no difference is observed between MCE and other forms of exercise. Given the minimal evidence that MCE is superior to other forms of exercise, the choice of exercise for chronic LBP should probably depend on patient or therapist preferences, therapist training, costs and safety. 
