Transurethral microwave thermotherapy for lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia 
Review question 
Does transurethral microwave thermotherapy (TUMT) improve bothersome urinary symptoms without unwanted side effects in men with an enlarged prostate? 
Background 
An enlarged prostate may cause bothersome urinary tract symptoms, such as having to urinate often during the day or night, having a weak stream, and the feeling of not completely emptying the bladder. When lifestyle changes (like drinking fewer liquids) or medications do not help, men may choose to have surgery, such as transurethral resection of the prostate. However, this procedure may cause unwanted effects, such as erection and ejaculation problems, or require retreatment. This review looks at the results of transurethral microwave thermotherapy, which is an alternative, less invasive procedure that uses microwave energy to reduce prostatic tissue. 
Study characteristicsWe found no study comparing transurethral microwave thermotherapy with the other newer and less invasive treatments for this condition. 
We found 16 studies with 1919 men that compared transurethral microwave thermotherapy with a simulated procedure (participants are made to believe they received treatment, while in reality, they did not) or with traditional surgery (transurethral resection of the prostate (TURP)). Participants’ average age was 69 years, and most had a moderate degree of bothersome urinary symptoms. 
Key results 
Compared to the traditional surgery (TURP), transurethral microwave thermotherapy probably results in little to no difference in urinary symptoms at short‐term follow‐up, but we are uncertain about its long‐term effects. There may be little to no difference in quality of life or problems with erections between these interventions both short‐term and long‐term. This procedure likely results in fewer serious side effects and problems with ejaculation compared to surgery. However, it likely results in an increase in the need for retreatment (including surgery). 
