Long‐term treatment for people with persistent depression
Why is this review important? 
Depressive disorders that persist for at least two years cause considerable problems. Even after successful treatment, they frequently recur. Common treatments are antidepressant medicines and psychological treatments (talking therapies), or a combination of both. Long‐term treatments should prevent the recurrence of depressive symptoms. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ People with persisting depression (longer than two years), friends, families, and carers. 
‐ General practitioners, psychiatrists, clinical psychologists, psychological therapists, and pharmacists. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
In adults with persistent depression who improved with acute (short‐term) treatment:
‐ Is receiving continued antidepressant medicine, psychological treatment, or a combination of both more effective in preventing recurrence of depression compared to placebo (a pretended treatment) or care as usual? 
‐ Is receiving continued antidepressant medicine, psychological treatment, or a combination of both equally accepted as receiving placebo or usual care? 
‐ Is one treatment more effective or more accepted than another?
Which studies does the review include? 
We searched medical databases and other sources to find all relevant studies completed up to September 2018. The studies had to compare antidepressant treatment, psychological treatment, or a combination of both, with each other, with placebo, or with care as usual for preventing recurrence of depression in adults diagnosed with persistent depression. We included 10 studies involving 840 participants. Five studies compared antidepressant medicine with placebo. 
One study compared psychological therapies versus attention placebo/non‐specific control. One study compared psychotherapy with medication. Three studies compared combined psychological and pharmacological therapies with pharmacological therapies alone. One study compared combined psychological and pharmacological therapies with psychotherapeutic therapies alone. 
Two studies compared two different antidepressants with each other.
Overall, the included studies were at low‐to‐moderate risk of bias.
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
According to GRADE, there was moderate quality evidence that participants taking medication treatment probably had less relapses/recurrences and may have lower dropouts than those taking placebo. The risk of depression returning in participants receiving a placebo (instead of antidepressant medicine) was 34%. In comparison, participants who remained on antidepressant medicines had a lower risk for recurrence of 13%. The continued treatment lasted between four months and two years. Antidepressant were as well accepted as placebo. However, as most of the included studies showed risk of bias and there were some inconsistent results between the different studies, it cannot be concluded with certainty whether continued or maintained pharmacotherapy (or both) is a convincing treatment for people with PDD. Additionally, as studies on the long‐term effects of medication are lacking, recommendations on the necessary duration of medication treatment cannot be drawn. 
