Medical and surgical treatments for usual‐type vulval intraepithelial neoplasia (uVIN)
What is the issue?  
Usual‐type vulval intraepithelial neoplasia (uVIN) is a pre‐malignant condition affecting the vulval skin, which has the potential for progression to vulval cancer. Most patients have distressing symptoms that include itching, burning and soreness of the vulva, and painful intercourse. There may be white, brown, or red colour changes of the skin, breaks in the skin, or skin thickening. Usual‐type VIN is associated with infection with a virus called human papilloma virus (HPV or wart virus). Treatments are aimed at relieving distressing symptoms and ensuring that the condition does not become cancerous. The most common treatment option has been surgery to remove the affected skin areas. Surgery, however, does not guarantee a cure, can be disfiguring, and may result in physical and psychological problems. Alternatives include the use of laser technology to destroy the layer of affected skin, which may give better cosmetic results, but usually does not yield a specimen to exclude cancer. It may also be ineffective in treating uVIN that extends into hair follicles. Non‐surgical treatment alternatives include topical creams and gels, and HPV vaccines. This review aimed to assess the effectiveness and safety of these treatments. 
What did we do?   We searched the literature from 1946 to September 2015 for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and non‐randomised studies (NRSs) of uVIN treatment. 
What did we find?  
We included six RCTs involving 327 women and five NRSs involving 648 women. Five RCTs evaluated medical treatments (imiquimod, cidofovir, indole‐3 carbinol), and six studies (one RCT and five NRSs) evaluated surgical treatments or photodynamic therapy. 
We pooled data from three similar trials involving 104 women and found topical imiquimod cream to be more effective than placebo in clearing uVIN after a 16‐week course (58% cleared with imiquimod versus 0% with placebo). Most studies did not include long‐term follow‐up, but findings from one small study suggested that most women in whom uVIN was completely cleared at six months were likely to sustain this response by 12 months and beyond; however, more evidence is needed. Moderate‐quality evidence suggested that topical cidofovir gel has a similar effect to imiquimod on clearing uVIN lesions at six months (complete response rates were 46% and 45%, respectively). Again, we are uncertain about the longer‐term effects and more evidence is needed. Side effects of imiquimod included vulval pain, redness and swelling, usually managed by reducing the frequency of applications. Headaches and tiredness occurred more frequently with imiquimod than cidofovir. The evidence for imiquimod was of moderate to high quality, and that for cidofovir was of moderate quality. Very few women were immunosuppressed, therefore we cannot be certain whether these topical treatments will be as effective in these patients. 
Low‐quality evidence showed that surgical excision and laser vaporisation were probably equally effective in removing uVIN lesions. However, uVIN recurrence after treatment was common, occurring in about half of women treated. The risk of vulval cancer did not differ significantly between these treatments, but there were too few cases for firm conclusions. Alternative surgical procedures that might be as effective include CUSA (ultrasonic surgical aspiration) and LEEP (loop electrosurgical excision procedure), based on low‐ to very low‐quality evidence, respectively. Very low‐quality evidence also suggested that photodynamic therapy may also be a useful treatment option. 
We found no evidence on the effectiveness of medical treatment versus surgery, or of other treatments, such as HPV vaccines; however, we identified five ongoing trials that may provide important evidence in the future. 
