Different types of implants for reconstructive breast surgery after mastectomy
Review question 
We assessed the effects of different types of breast implants on short‐term and long‐term surgical complications, cosmetic outcomes, satisfaction with the surgical procedure and the quality of life in women undergoing breast reconstruction following a mastectomy (breast removal). 
Background 
An estimated 28% to 60% of women affected by breast cancer will undergo a mastectomy (i.e. surgical removal of the breast). Following a mastectomy, women can choose from many breast reconstruction options and achieve a natural feel with appropriate size and shape of the breast, according to individual needs. These reconstruction options are also available for the increasing number of women at high risk of developing hereditary breast cancer who undergo risk‐reducing mastectomy. Options include implants that are silicone‐filled (filled with an inert, man‐made polymer in gel form), saline‐filled (a silicone shell, filled with sterile salt water), anatomically shaped or round, textured or smooth, and of fixed‐volume or variable‐volume. We wanted to examine if different types of breast implants are associated with better or worse surgical outcomes and patient satisfaction. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to July 2015. We conducted a review to compare short‐ and long‐term surgical complications (such as scar tissue forming around the implant and squeezing it ‐ referred to as 'capsular contracture', and 'implant rupture'), cosmetic outcomes, women's postoperative quality of life and satisfaction with different types of breast implants used in breast reconstruction. We found five randomised studies involving 202 women that provided data for five different comparisons: rough versus smooth surface, implant filler materials compared to each other (silicone versus saline, and hydrogel versus saline), anatomical versus round shape, and variable‐ versus fixed‐volume. Four studies included women who received a mastectomy for breast cancer and one study included women who had bilateral mastectomies for preventive purposes. 
The authors of two studies reported that they did not have competing interests; the authors of three studies did not report this information. Three studies reported that their studies received financial support from research foundations; the other studies did not report any information regarding the source of their funding. 
Key results 
Only two studies reported differences between types of implants for some of the outcomes we considered. 
One study on 65 women compared silicone‐filled implants with saline‐filled implants and showed that saline implants resulted in fewer cases of capsular contracture and a higher number of women who were satisfied with the reconstructed breast. However more women in the saline‐filled implant group required further operations on the reconstructed breast than in the silicone‐filled implant group. 
Another study on 40 women compared variable‐volume implants (inserted in a single surgical procedure) with fixed‐volume implants (inserted in the second of two separate surgical procedures) and showed that there were significantly higher satisfaction levels and significantly lower reoperation rates with the fixed‐volume implants. 
The remaining three studies reported on the following comparisons: rough versus smooth silicone‐filled implants (20 women), PVP‐hydrogel versus saline‐filled implants (41 women) and anatomically shaped versus round implants (36 women). These studies reported no differences between implant types for outcomes such as capsular contracture, other short‐term complications or reoperation rates. 
There were no studies that compared recent generation silicone implants with earlier versions or implants from different manufacturing companies. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence we found was limited: only a negligible, tiny fraction of women who undergo breast reconstruction have been studied in randomised controlled trials. The quality of evidence is very low, as the studies we identified suffered from major methodological limitations. 
Despite the fact that several million women have had their breasts reconstructed over the last 20 years, the small number of studies and the low numbers of women included in these studies does not allow us to draw any definitive conclusions about the which is the best type of breast implant. This lack of evidence should be discussed when informing women about the risks and complications of different implant‐based breast reconstruction options. There is a need for further studies, which include a larger number of women and compare different types of implants, to free women from decisions made on the basis of surgical opinion alone. 
