Benefits of capecitabine in hormone receptor‐positive compared to hormone receptor‐negative breast cancer 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aims of this Cochrane Review were to find out whether capecitabine is more useful in hormone receptor‐positive or ‐negative breast cancers, and to see whether this differs depending on how advanced the cancer is. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
Capecitabine is an anti‐breast cancer drug in tablet form that has relatively few side effects in many people and can control cases of advanced breast cancer, sometimes for long periods. Some trials aiming to stop the return of cancer after treatment for early breast cancer also suggest modest benefits from adding capecitabine. We compared the use of capecitabine in breast cancer as palliative treatment (incurable metastatic or advanced disease), as neoadjuvant treatment (before surgery for early breast cancer), and as adjuvant treatment (after surgery for early breast cancer). We found a total of 26 studies, with 12 studies in the metastatic setting, 6 in the neoadjuvant setting, and 8 in the adjuvant setting. We found that capecitabine treatment was added in a number of different ways in different trials. These could be classified as monotherapy, where capecitabine alone was compared to another treatment (often another single drug); substitution, where capecitabine was used in place of another drug within a combined drug treatment; and addition, where capecitabine was added to standard treatment using one or more drugs. 
Key messages 
In the setting of advanced disease, there was a modest increase in time to cancer progression (how long cancer growth is stopped) with the addition of capecitabine in hormone receptor‐positive but not in hormone receptor‐negative breast cancer, although no survival benefit was seen in either group. However, when broken down by how capecitabine was added to the regimen, the addition of capecitabine to other chemotherapy was most effective, demonstrating both longer time to progression in both groups and improved survival in hormone receptor‐positive cancers. 
In the neoadjuvant setting, capecitabine‐containing chemotherapy regimens showed no difference compared with non‐capecitabine‐containing chemotherapy regimens: no significant impact on the pathological complete response rate (the proportion of patients for whom all traces of cancer in the breast have been eradicated by treatment by the time of surgery), on disease‐free survival (the number of people who remain cancer‐free at a certain time after surgery), or on overall survival, regardless of hormone receptor subgroup. 
In the adjuvant setting, there was a small benefit for overall survival with capecitabine‐containing compared to non‐capecitabine‐containing chemotherapy regimens, when all patients were looked at together. In triple‐negative and hormone receptor‐negative breast cancers, reductions in both cancer return rates and deaths from breast cancer were substantial for capecitabine‐containing chemotherapy regimens compared with non‐capecitabine‐containing regimens. In contrast, for hormone receptor‐positive breast cancers, there was no significant impact of capecitabine on either cancer return rates or deaths from cancer. 
