Second‐line therapy can increase survival of people with metastatic colorectal cancer who did not respond to a first treatment 
Review question 
We reviewed the ability of chemotherapy drugs (medicines used to treat cancer) to reduce tumour size and improve survival in people with metastatic colorectal cancer who had not responded to a prior treatment. We also looked at the side effects caused by the different drug regimens. 
Background 
People with metastatic colorectal cancer (cancer that has spread to sites other than the colon) and whose disease had progressed despite one prior chemotherapy (first‐line treatment) treatment, and who can be offered a second therapy (second‐line treatment) with the aim of improving their poor outcome (prognosis). The treatment regimens compared were systemic (administered intravenously (through a vein)). 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2016. In this updated review, we identified 34 clinical trials that compared second‐line therapy with either no chemotherapy (best supportive care) or an alternative second‐line therapy, so addressing the issue of second‐line therapy performance in people with metastatic colorectal cancer. 
Main results 
Available evidence seemed to support the use of second‐line therapy because it improved survival expectations as compared to best supportive care, although this was reported in only one small trial and the result would need to be confirmed in further research. Moreover, we found that modern chemotherapy regimens were more effective than older ones that contained a drug called 5‐fluorouracil, that combination chemotherapy was more effective than single agent chemotherapy and that targeted agents (so called 'smart drugs' that attack the cancer cells and do little damage to normal cells) increased the effectiveness of conventional chemotherapy. Generally, toxicity increased as effectiveness increased. 
Quality of the evidence 
The main conclusions of this review were based on moderate to high quality evidence. When the quality of the evidence was considered low or moderate, this was generally due to inconsistency in the main results (i.e. the result for progression‐free survival (time from the start of second‐line treatment to progression of the cancer) was not confirmed by overall survival (time from the start of second‐line treatment to death from any cause)) and the low numbers of participants included in the analyses. Nevertheless, it should be remembered that progression‐free survival nowadays is considered a reliable surrogate of overall survival (which includes all deaths, not just cancer‐related, and requires longer follow‐up to obtain an accurate estimate) in the setting of second‐line therapy for metastatic colorectal cancer. Most of the trials did not report quality of life, which prevented us formally investigating the balance between survival benefits provided by second‐line systemic therapy and treatment‐related toxicity. 
