Diagnostic accuracy of total serum bile acids or individual bile acids for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy in woman claiming pruritus 
Review question To assess and compare the diagnostic accuracy of total serum bile acids (TSBA) and some components of serum bile acid profile for the diagnosis of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy in woman with onset of pruritus during pregnancy. 
Background 'Diagnostic accuracy' means how well a test correctly identifies or rules out disease and informs subsequent decisions about treatment. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is a pregnancy‐specific liver disorder, in which bile (a digestive fluid) builds up in the liver, impairing the liver (intrahepatic) function. Intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy is possibly associated with an increased risk of premature delivery and fetal death, which seems to occur most often during the last weeks of pregnancy. This is why most clinicians choose to induce early delivery of the baby. 
In clinical practice, presence of severe pruritus (itchiness) during late pregnancy and 'otherwise unexplained' abnormalities in serum liver tests, seems enough to support the diagnosis of intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy. However, excluding all other possible underlying diseases is not always easy; hence confirmation of the intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy diagnosis may be possible only after delivery, when spontaneous disappearance of pruritus and improvement of liver tests on blood exams usually occur. 
Total serum bile acids (TSBA) are the most used biomarkers for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy in clinical practice. Some components of the serum bile acid profile might provide more specific information than total serum bile acids when diagnosing the disease, defining its severity and monitoring its response to treatment. 
Study characteristics This review considered all evidence provided by studies that assess the diagnostic accuracy of total serum bile acids (TSBA) and any component of serum bile acid profile for intrahepatic cholestasis of pregnancy in woman claiming onset of pruritus during pregnancy. 
We assessed all available reports from a wide, systematic search of databases of medical literature, irrespective of design, publication status, language, and study design. We finally included 16 studies, most of them assessing the accuracy (sensitivity and specificity) of TSBA with a cut‐off of 10 μmol/L. Most studies had a case‐control design, and these studies could have overestimated the diagnostic accuracy. 
Key results When considering the studies with a cut‐off of 10 μmol/L for TSBA serum concentration, TSBA overall sensitivity (the ability to correctly identify women with the disease) ranged from 72% to 98% and specificity (the ability to correctly identify women without the disease) ranged from 81% to 97%. However, after performing two different analyses excluding studies with probably less reliable results, the diagnostic accuracy seemed lower. We calculated the overall accuracy also of some components of serum bile acid profile, but the small number of studies and the high variability of the results led to very imprecise data. 
