N‐acetylcysteine taken with antibiotics for treatment of Helicobacter pylori infection
Review question 
Is the addition of N‐acetylcysteine to antibiotics safe and does it improve cure rates for Helicobacter pylori infection? 
Background 
Helicobacter pylori (H pylori) is a bacteria that lives in the stomach and might cause several diseases such as gastric cancer, ulcer disease, and others. Colonisation occurs in about one‐half of the world's population and is more common in countries with poor sanitary conditions. People become infected by consuming contaminated water. 
The infection is treated using antibiotics and a drug which reduces acid production in the stomach. However, rates of antibiotic resistance are rising around the world, which is reducing the cure rates even with treatment. New medications are being tested to improve cure rates. One of these medications is N‐acetylcysteine (NAC). NAC is a drug that helps to dissolve mucus in respiratory diseases. It can be taken by mouth (orally) or injected into a vein (intravenous). NAC can destroy some mechanisms of survival of H pylori and could improve cure rates. 
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies (specifically, randomised controlled trials (RCTs)) with a total of 559 people aged between 17 and 76 years old. The evidence is current to April 2018. All studies recruited outpatients from endoscopy centres (centres that specialise in an examination done with a flexible tube with a camera that is inserted into stomach) in several countries. The antibiotic combinations tested were very different in the included studies, as were the doses of NAC (600 mg to 1800 mg per day). NAC was compared with placebo (dummy pill) or nothing. 
Key results 
We are uncertain whether the addition of NAC to antibiotics improves H pylori cure rates compared with the addition of placebo or no NAC. Any possible beneficial effect of NAC should be regarded cautiously because the included studies were very different and of low certainty, with some flaws that could have compromised their results and consequently, the results of this review. 
