Methylphenidate for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in children and adolescents ‐ assessment of harmful effects 
Review question 
Is methylphenidate administration associated with harmful effects in children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)? 
Background 
ADHD is one of the most common neurodevelopmental disorders in childhood and is associated with impaired functioning and negative outcomes for development. Individuals diagnosed with ADHD are often hyperactive and impulsive. Methylphenidate, a psychostimulant, is the drug most often prescribed for children and adolescents with ADHD. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for available research up to January 2016 and found 260 studies with different designs. We included a number of non‐randomised designs (where investigators did not assign participants to a certain treatment): 
– 7 comparative cohort studies (a group of people followed over time; six studies compared 968 patients who were taking methylphenidate to 166 controls who were not taking methylphenidate; and 1 study included 1224 patients that were taking or not taking methylphenidate during different time periods); – 4 patient‐control studies (comparing two groups of people: 53,192 were taking methylphenidate, and 19,906 were not); – 177 non‐comparative cohort studies (2,207,751 participants) with no control group (i.e. who were not taking methylphenidate); – 2 cross‐sectional studies (96 participants were taking methylphenidate at a single time point); and – 70 patient reports/series (206 participants were taking methylphenidate). 
We also included methylphenidate groups from randomised clinical trials (RCTs; experiments in which participants are randomly put into independent groups that compare different treatments). All RCTs assessed methylphenidate versus other interventions for ADHD and follow‐up periods from RCTs. We only used the data from the intervention arm with methylphenidate. In all the included non‐comparative cohort studies, 2,207,751 participants were taking methylphenidate. Participants' ages ranged from 3 years to 20 years. 
