Centre‐based day care for children younger than five years of age in high‐income countries
Review question 
This review evaluated the effects of centre‐based day care on the cognitive and psychosocial development of children younger than five years of age and the economic situation of their parents in high‐income countries (as defined by the World Bank 2011). We defined 'centre‐based day care' as supervision of children in a publicly accessible location. 
Background 
A large proportion of children younger than five years of age in high‐income countries experience significant non‐parental care. Centre‐based day care services may influence the development of children and the economic situation of parents. 
Study characteristics 
We included studies that assessed the effects of centre‐based day care for children younger than five years of age in high‐income countries. To isolate the effects of day care, we excluded interventions that involved medical, psychological or non–child‐focused co‐interventions. Electronic searches identified 34,890 citations that were screened for inclusion in the review. Only one study (120 families, 143 children), based in London, England, matched all inclusion criteria and was included in the review. Evidence is current to April 2014. 
Key results 
Currently very limited evidence is available on the effects of centre‐based day care on the cognitive and psychosocial development of children, parental employment or household income, or on long‐term outcomes for children. 
Quality of the evidence 
Only one randomised controlled trial (RCT) was included in this review. In addition, a large proportion of families in the non‐intervention group secured day care services for themselves. The quality of the evidence included in this review is very low, so the results must be interpreted with caution. Although RCTs do not allow conclusive judgements as regards the role of centre‐based day care in the development of children and the economic situation of parents, this does not imply that these services are not important in high‐income countries. The need for effectiveness studies of centre‐based day care without co‐interventions is significant. 
