Hyaluronic acid and other non‐surgical treatment options for ankle osteoarthritis
Cochrane researchers conducted a review of the effect of non‐surgical treatment for people older than 18 with ankle osteoarthritis in order to provide a synthesis of the evidence as a base for future treatment guidelines. After searching for all relevant studies up to September 2014, no study using any other non‐surgical treatment besides the use of hyaluronic acid for ankle osteoarthritis was identified. They found six studies evaluating hyaluronic acid with a total of 240 people. Their findings are summarised below: 
Five studies showed the results of the use of hyaluronic acid for ankle osteoarthritis compared to other treatment (exercise (30 people) or botulinum toxin A injections (75 people) or to placebo (fake injection) (3 studies, 109 people). One study was a dose‐finding study (26 people). Follow‐up was three to six months. The quality of the evidence was graded as low, due to an unclear risk of bias and a low number of participants. 
In people with ankle osteoarthritis: 
‐ No studies were identified to support the use of any other non‐surgical treatment.
‐ We are uncertain if there is a benefit of hyaluronic acid for the treatment of ankle osteoarthritis compared to placebo. 
‐ Results comparing hyaluronic acid to other treatment are inconclusive.
‐ Results about the best dosing schedule for hyaluronic acid are inconclusive.
‐ Possible side effects of hyaluronic acid might include swelling and pain of the joint which subsides within a couple of days. 
‐ Hyaluronic acid injections might be conditionally recommended when simple analgesics have failed. 
What is osteoarthritis, what is hyaluronic acid and what other non‐surgical treatment options are there? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints. When the joint loses cartilage, the bone grows to try to repair the damage. Instead of making things better, however, the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can become misshapen and make the joint painful and unstable. This can affect your physical function or ability to use your ankle. 
Hyaluronic acid is a natural component of synovial fluid. Hyaluronic acid injections (also called 'viscosupplementation') are gel‐like fluid injections which help to lubricate the joint and act as a shock absorber for joint loads. These injections are used in a hospital environment when simple analgesics have failed. 
Other non‐surgical options for ankle OA are, for instance, the use of different types of analgesics and the use of non‐pharmacological therapy like shoe adjustments, braces, weight loss and exercises or a combination of any of those. 
What happens to people with ankle osteoarthritis who get injections with hyaluronic acid compared to placebo? 
After six months (45 people) pain and physical function were measured using a combined score (scale of 0 to 100; 0 is the best score and 100 the worst): 
‐ People who got injections with hyaluronic acid rated their pain and physical function 12.3 points lower compared to placebo (12% absolute improvement). 
‐ People who got injections with hyaluronic acid rated their pain and physical function 24.4 points lower. 
‐ People who got injections with placebo rated their pain and physical function 12.1 points lower. 
Radiographic joint structure changes: 
‐ No studies were found that looked at this outcome.
Quality of life: 
‐ No data is available to make a statement about quality of life.
Number of people experiencing any serious adverse events (109 people): 
‐ No patient in either group experienced a serious adverse event.
Number of people experiencing any adverse event (109 people): 
‐ 35 more people per 1000 who are treated with hyaluronic acid will experience an adverse event compared to placebo (3.5% absolute increase). 
