Can tests to identify the main draining lymph nodes in women with endometrial cancer accurately diagnose if the cancer has spread to the lymph nodes? 
The issueWomen who have endometrial cancer (cancer arising from the lining of the womb) may have cancer cells spread to lymph nodes in the pelvis and/or the para‐aortic area (main blood vessel in the upper abdominal cavity) and need additional radiotherapy treatment, with or without chemotherapy, following initial hysterectomy. Previous studies looked at the effect of removing as many of the pelvic lymph nodes as possible (lymphadenectomy), but did not show a benefit to survival. However, lymphadenectomy often causes problems with lymphoedema (swelling of the legs) and lymphocysts (collections of lymph fluid). Sentinel lymph node (SLN) biopsy (SLNB) involves identifying the first SLN draining the tumour, using a dye or radioactive tracer, or both. The SLNs are removed and examined under a microscope to check for cancer cells. Additional treatment decisions may change depending on these findings. 
Why is this review important?Several studies used dyes or traceable agents to identify SLNs in women with womb cancer. It is not clear whether all of these agents are sufficiently accurate to predict which women have cancerous spread to lymph nodes and whether it is better to inject dye to the cervix or the muscle of the womb. This review summarises the evidence and produces overall estimates of the relative accuracies of the available tests. 
How was the review conducted?We included studies that tested the accuracy of tracer agent/s to identify SLN against the standard method of removing all pelvic nodes, with or without para‐aortic lymph nodes. We restricted the studies to those that examined the SLNs by taking multiple slices of the node and staining for cancer cells using antibody markers (immunohistochemistry (IHC)) before examining them under a microscope (ultrastaging).What are the findings?We included 33 studies (2237 women) that evaluated any techniques used to identify the SLN draining from the womb. These included: 11 for blue dye only; four for technetium‐99m (a radioactive substance) only; nine for indocyanine green (ICG) dye that fluoresces under near infra‐red light; 12 that used a combination of blue dye and technetium‐99m and one that used a combination of ICG and technetium‐99mand where tracers were injected into the cervix (neck of the womb) or directly into the muscle of the womb, or a combination. Overall, the methodological reporting was poor, which limited our ability to assess the quality of the studies. 
