The use of light as a therapy for acne
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether treatment using lasers and other light sources improves the whiteheads and blackheads, and inflamed spots that people with acne have. We also wanted to know how people with acne assessed their own improvement, and whether they found that these therapies caused unpleasant effects like blistering or scarring. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer these questions and found 71 studies, with a total of 4211 participants. 
What was studied in this review? 
Acne is a common skin problem. It causes blackheads, whiteheads and inflamed spots, and may lead to scarring. Current treatment options are limited in their effectiveness and convenience, and may cause side‐effects. We investigated lasers and other light sources, which are used as an alternative therapy, either on their own or in combination with a chemical that makes the skin more sensitive to the light source (photodynamic therapy (PDT)). We compared different light therapies with other treatment options, no treatment, or placebo. 
Most studies included people with mild to moderate acne in their twenties. Light treatments in these studies varied greatly in many important aspects, such as wavelength of light used, duration of treatment, chemicals used in photodynamic therapy, and others. 
Over half of the studies were industry sponsored; study authors reported either conflict of interest, or such information was not declared. 
Key messages 
We are unable to draw firm conclusions from the results of our review, as it was not clear whether the light therapies (including PDT) assessed in these studies were more effective than the other comparators tested such as placebo, no treatment, or treatments rubbed on the skin, nor how long the possible benefits lasted. 
What are the main results of this review? 
We investigated how people with acne assessed their own improvement, but it was not clear whether the light therapies in the studies had a beneficial effect. Evidence on how investigators assessed changes in numbers of blackheads, whiteheads and inflamed spots in people with acne was also limited for most types of light therapies, due to variation in the way the studies were conducted and measured. 
