Vitamin A supplementation for preventing disease and death in children aged six months to five years 
Background 
Vitamin A deficiency (VAD) is a major public health problem in low‐ and middle‐income countries, affecting 190 million children under five years of age. VAD predisposes children to increased risk of a range of problems, including respiratory diseases, diarrhoea, measles, and vision problems, and it can lead to death. Previous studies show that giving synthetic vitamin A supplementation (VAS) to children aged six months to five years who are at risk of VAD can reduce the risk of death and some diseases. This is an update of the previous review. 
Review question 
This review evaluated the effect of synthetic VAS compared to placebo (dummy tablet) or no intervention for preventing illness and death in children aged six months to five years. 
Review methods 
We searched different databases that contain both published and unpublished results of medical studies. The literature search was updated in March 2021. We included only randomised control trials (RCTs: a study in which participants are randomly allocated to one or more treatments); these are considered the best form of experimental studies in research literature. We combined the results mathematically to obtain overall estimates of effectiveness of VAS against illness and death. 
Study characteristics 
The update identified no new studies. The review includes 47 RCTs representing 1,223,856 children. Studies took place in 19 countries: 30 (63%) in Asia, 16 of which were in India; 8 (17%) in Africa; 7 (15%) in Latin America, and 2 (4%) in Australia. About one‐third of the studies were in urban/periurban settings, and half were in rural settings; the remaining studies did not clearly report settings. The average age of the children was about 33 months. Most studies included equal numbers of boys and girls and lasted about one year. The quality of the included studies was variable; however, it was unlikely that death rates were influenced by potential errors in the conduct of the studies. 
Key results 
The data on the effect of VAS for the prevention of death were available from 19 of the included studies, and the combined results indicate that VAS reduces overall risk of death and death due to diarrhoea by 12%. VAS does not specifically reduce death due to measles, respiratory infections, or meningitis, but it can reduce new occurrences of diarrhoea and measles. There was no effect on incidence of respiratory disease or admissions to hospital due to diarrhoea or pneumonia. Giving oral synthetic vitamin A to children at risk of VAD reduces the risk of night blindness and tiny flakes of protein in the eye called Bitot's spots. It also improves levels of vitamin A in their blood. The only reported side effect was risk of vomiting within 48 hours of taking vitamin A in large doses, as recommended by the World Health Organization. 
