Rehabilitation as part of treatment for adults with a broken wrist
Background and aim 
Particularly in older women, a broken wrist (comprising a fracture at the lower end of the radius, one of the two forearm bones) can result from a fall onto an outstretched hand. Treatment usually includes putting the bone fragments back in place, if badly displaced, and immobilising the wrist in a plaster cast. Surgery may be considered for more seriously displaced fractures. Rehabilitation with interventions such as exercises and other physical interventions is used to help prevent complications, such as stiffness and aching, restore function and speed up recovery. 
This review set out to evaluate the effects, primarily on wrist function, of different rehabilitation interventions for treating these injuries. 
Search results 
We searched the scientific literature up to January 2015 and found 26 randomised controlled studies, involving 1269 mainly female and older patients. Only four of the 23 treatment comparisons covered by these 26 studies were tested by more than one study. Participants of 15 studies were initially treated with plaster cast immobilisation. Some or all participants in the other 11 studies were treated with surgery. In seven studies, the rehabilitation intervention being tested started during wrist immobilisation. In the other 19 studies, rehabilitation started when the cast had been removed. 
All studies were small and were designed in a way that may affect the reliability of their findings. Most studies did not report on patient‐reported outcome measures of function and did not follow up patients for long enough. We judged the quality of the reported evidence as either low or very low and thus we are not confident that the results described below are true. 
Key results 
Interventions started during immobilisation  Two studies provided very low quality evidence that rehabilitation (hand therapy or task‐orientated therapy) improved hand function after the plaster cast was removed, but not in the longer‐term. One study provided very low quality evidence that outcome after supervised exercises did not differ from outcome after unsupervised exercises. Four studies provided very low quality evidence of some slight benefits of four different single methods of rehabilitation that were given with standard care. 
Interventions started post‐immobilisation, mainly after removal of the plaster cast  There was very low quality evidence from one study of improved function for a single session of physiotherapy, primarily advice and instructions for a home exercise programme, compared with 'no intervention' after cast removal. There was low quality evidence from four very different studies of no clinically important differences in outcome in patients receiving routine physiotherapy or occupational therapy in addition to instructions for home exercises versus instructions for home exercises from a therapist. There was very low quality evidence of better short‐term hand function in the participants given physiotherapy than in those given either instructions for home exercises by a surgeon (one study) or a progressive home exercise programme (one study). Both studies comparing physiotherapy or occupational therapy versus a progressive home exercise programme after surgery involving plate fixation (a metal plate and screws are used to hold the broken bone in place) found low quality evidence in favour of a structured programme of home exercises preceded by instructions or coaching. One study provided very low quality evidence of a short‐term, but not persisting, benefit of accelerated compared with usual rehabilitation after surgery involving plate fixation. 
