Fraction size in radiation therapy for breast conservation in early breast cancer
Review question 
We asked if giving fewer radiation treatments (using a higher radiation dose at each visit) was as effective as the conventional 25 to 30 radiation treatments for women with early breast cancer who have breast conserving therapy (keep their breast). 
Background 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women, with one in eight women in the United States and Australia, and one in nine women in the United Kingdom being diagnosed with the condition by age 85 years. Breast conserving therapy (removing the tumour but keeping an intact breast) has proven to be as effective as mastectomy (removing the breast tissue) in terms of survival for women with cancer confined to the breast (or the local lymph nodes, or both), as long as a five to six‐week course of radiation therapy is delivered. This involves 25 to 30 visits to a radiation oncology department. Without radiation therapy after breast conserving surgery there is a significant risk of breast cancer returning in the breast (local recurrence). Furthermore, for every local recurrence avoided with radiation, one death is avoided at 15 years. Many women prefer breast conservation which has resulted in an increased demand for radiation services. Giving fewer daily radiation treatments (fractions) would be beneficial to women if this has the same effect on tumour control and survival, and cosmetic outcome. In order to reduce the number of treatments, the radiation dose delivered per fraction is increased. This may also reduce demand on radiation resources and be more convenient for women. 
Study characteristics 
Nine studies, involving 8228 women, were included in this review. Most of the women in the studies (91%) had tumours 3 cm or less in size, all had complete removal of the tumour on pathology and 68% had no evidence of cancer in their lymph nodes. Where the breast size was known, 83% had small or medium breasts. 
