Occurrence of transient neurological symptoms following spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine versus other local anaesthetics in adults undergoing surgery 
Review question 
We aimed to determine if transient neurological symptoms (TNS) occur more frequently after recovery from spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine than with other local anaesthetics in adults. The symptoms are mild to severe pain in the buttocks and legs that can last for days. We also looked for longer‐lasting sensory or motor disturbances caused by nerve damage by local anaesthetics, known as neurological complications. 
Background 
Mild pain in the lower back is a common complaint following spinal anaesthesia (where a local anaesthetic is injected into the spinal column rather than using general anaesthetic into the whole body). People may also experience headache and low blood pressure. TNS symptoms are different. They appear within a few hours up to 24 hours after spinal anaesthesia and may last up to two to five days. 
Lidocaine (a local anaesthetic) continues to be used for spinal anaesthesia because of its unique short duration of action, intense blockade, quick recovery, and suitability for day‐case surgery, but alternatives are needed. 
This review was originally published in 2005 and previously updated in 2009.
Study characteristics 
We included all randomized trials and quasi‐randomized trials comparing the frequency of TNS and neurological complications after spinal anaesthesia with lidocaine compared to other local anaesthetic agents. Randomized trials compare two or more treatments where the treatments are allocated to participants in a random manner that cannot be predicted by the study organizers. Quasi‐randomized studies are similar but are not truly random, but carry a greater likelihood that the study organizer can predict which treatment the participants receive (e.g. based on date of birth or the order in which people were recruited). 
The evidence is current to 25 November 2018.
Key results 
We included 24 trials reporting on 2226 participants, 239 of whom developed TNS. There was no evidence TNS was associated with any specific neurological disease and symptoms disappeared spontaneously by the fifth postoperative day. The risk of developing TNS with lidocaine for spinal anaesthesia was increased compared to bupivacaine, prilocaine, or procaine; and similar compared to 2‐chloroprocaine and mepivacaine. 
Specifically, when alternative local anaesthetics were compared directly to lidocaine, the risk of developing TNS was reduced by between 82% and 90% when bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, and ropivacaine were used rather than lidocaine. There were no clear differences in TNS between lidocaine and 2‐chloroprocaine or mepivacaine. In the case of 2‐chloroprocaine, TNS occurred in only one study and the results varied greatly for the small number of participants. Painful symptoms stopped by the fifth postoperative day in all participants. Among pregnant women undergoing surgery, only 3/310 women developed TNS; no conclusions could be drawn on whether symptoms were more likely with lidocaine. 
The authors also used the statistical method of network meta‐analysis to compare the various local anaesthetics. This analysis similarly showed that the risk of TNS was lower for bupivacaine, levobupivacaine, prilocaine, procaine, and ropivacaine, while 2‐chloroprocaine and mepivacaine did not differ in risk of TNS compared to lidocaine.  
