Aspirin for women undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART).
Review question  Cochrane researchers reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of aspirin used with the aim of increasing the chance of live birth in women undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART). 
Background  Aspirin has been commonly used in an attempt to increase the chance of live birth in women undergoing ART. However, there is contradictory evidence on the effectiveness of this treatment and on the appropriate time to commence treatment and its duration. Although physiologically aspirin exerts a beneficial effect on some aspects required for a successful pregnancy, aspirin intake has been also associated with miscarriage and vaginal bleeding. It was, therefore, important to evaluate current evidence on the effectiveness of this treatment. 
Study characteristics  We found 13 randomised controlled trials with parallel groups, comparing aspirin with placebo or no treatment in a total of 2653 women undergoing ART. Studies were conducted in the USA and a variety of countries in Europe and Asia. One of the included trials was partly funded by a pharmaceutical company relevant to the intervention. In most of the studies, groups were comparable and the mean age of participants in both groups was 32 years. An identical dose of the intervention was administered in most of the studies and most reported a similar timing of the initiation of aspirin intake. The duration of trial varied across the studies, but was sufficient to provide data on the reported outcomes as respectively investigated by each group. The evidence is current to 9 May 2016. 
Key results  There was no evidence of a difference between the groups in rates of live birth, clinical pregnancy, ectopic pregnancy, multiple pregnancy, miscarriage or vaginal bleeding. The number of studies was limited and the quality of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate, while data on complication rates, either during the IVF/ICSI procedure or during pregnancy and childbirth were either very limited or missing. At this second update we were not able to add new data from additional studies, as we found no new RCTs reporting on these outcomes in the prespecified comparisons. Based on the available evidence, we reached the same conclusion as the initial version of the review: no single outcome measure demonstrated a benefit with the use of aspirin. Currently, there is no evidence to support the use of aspirin treatment in order to improve pregnancy rates for a general IVF population. 
