Routine ultrasound scans for babies before 24 weeks of pregnancy.
We set out to determine the effect of routine ultrasound scans early in pregnancy (before 24 weeks). This was in comparison to no scan at all, or scans only when a clinical problem was suspected, such as if the woman has vaginal bleeding, or the baby is at high risk of having an abnormality. 
What is the issue? 
Ultrasound scans send out high‐frequency sound waves directed to the area being examined, and use the reflected sound to make an image. This review considers two types of scan in the first half of pregnancy.  Early scans (before 14 weeks) mainly aim to count the number of babies, to check they are growing in the correct place and check the pregnancy dates.  Later scans, typically done around 18 to 24 weeks, recheck all the above, and also examine the baby's anatomy and whether the placenta (afterbirth) is in the correct place. Both types of scan may cause parental anxiety and a false positive diagnoses could lead to harm. The aim of this review is to compare routine with selective or no scans. 
Why is this important? 
It has been assumed that routine scans before 24 weeks' gestation will result in the earlier detection of problems and improve management and the pregnancy outcome. The alternative is selective scans for specific reasons. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials. We found 13 studies including 85,265 women. We included two main comparisons. 
Routine early scanning  
Ultrasound scans in the first 14 weeks reduced short‐term maternal worries about the pregnancy. There was no evidence of a clear effect on induction of labour to prevent the pregnancy going overdue, loss of the baby, early birth (before 34 weeks) or mothers choosing termination for baby abnormalities. 
Routine later scanning  
Second trimester scans, at 14 to 24 weeks, increased detection of baby abnormalities, and more women chose termination of pregnancy for this reason. There was no evidence of an effect on perinatal loss. Induction of labour to prevent the pregnancy going overdue was reduced. No studies reported how it affected maternal anxiety. Multiple pregnancies were more likely to be detected by 24 weeks. Long‐term follow‐up of children exposed to these scans did not indicate that they were harmful to children's physical or intellectual development. 
We also found one trial from a group of low and middle income countries, comparing a combination of two scans and specialist training of health professionals and referral of women with complications, with selective scans and routine care. The intervention did not alter the number of women delivering in a hospital with caesarean section facility. Nor did it appear to reduce maternal deaths or the numbers of low‐birthweight babies, although the evidence was very uncertain. 
We also found one trial where all women underwent scans but the results were revealed to the health care professionals in half the cases. This trial showed no important effect of revealing the scan results but the evidence was very uncertain. 
Most studies were carried out relatively early in the development of scan technology and when training in its use was less advanced. In most trials a large proportion of women in the control groups received a scan too. 
What does this mean? 
Early scans probably reduce maternal worries about the baby in the short term. Later scans may reduce labour induction to prevent the pregnancy going overdue. They may also improve detection of major abnormalities in the baby and increase the number of women who choose pregnancy termination for this reason. They may also reduce the number of undetected twin pregnancies. All these findings accord with common sense.  
