The use of machines to preserve kidneys from deceased donors prior to transplantation
What is the issue? 
Kidney transplantation is the best treatment for patients with end‐stage kidney disease. However, there are not enough donated organs to go around. In addition, whilst a donated kidney is outside of the body it is starved of oxygen, the halting of circulation allows small clots to form, which damages the organ. This damage remains a major barrier to transplantation as it renders many organs unusable and is associated with decreased survival of the kidneys which are transplanted. Traditionally kidneys were kept in ice (termed static cold storage). Machines which drive cold (hypothermic machine perfusion) or warm (normothermic machine perfusion) solutions through donated kidneys aim to decrease the damage done during transport and therefore improve the outcomes for these kidneys. 
What did we do? 
We performed a rigorous search for studies which compared hypothermic machine perfusion, normothermic machine perfusion and standard static cold storage. Data from included studies could then be combined to allow further analysis. Our primary outcome was rate of delayed graft function (DGF) (the number of patients who needed extra dialysis support in the week following transplant). Our main secondary outcome of interest was one‐year kidney survival (the number of transplanted kidneys functioning at one year). 
What did we find? 
Sixteen studies (2266 participants) comparing hypothermic machine perfusion with static cold storage were included. The use of hypothermic machine perfusion instead of standard static cold storage reduces the risk of DGF by approximately 23%. Two reports performed economic analysis, in the USA and European settings, and both estimated cost savings with the use of hypothermic machine perfusion. Two studies reported hypothermic machine perfusion prolongs the length of time that donated kidneys survive in the recipient, however we were unable to perform an analysis to confirm this. The effect of HMP on other outcomes (incidence of acute rejection, patient survival, hospital stay, long‐term kidney function, duration of DGF) remains uncertain. 
No completed studies investigating normothermic machine perfusion were identified, but one ongoing study was identified. 
Conclusions 
Compared with standard static cold storage, hypothermic machine perfusion reduces the rate of DGF in kidneys from deceased donors, and likely results in increased survival of the transplanted kidney and overall cost savings. Studies looking at normothermic machine perfusion are required to assess if this results in superior outcomes. 
