Eye drops made from autologous serum as treatment for dry eye
What is the aim of this review?  We conducted this Cochrane review to find out whether autologous serum eye drops work as treatment for dry eye. Cochrane researchers searched for all relevant studies seeking an answer to this question and found five studies. 
What are the key messages of this review?  Eye drops containing autologous serum might be better at improving dry eye symptoms than artificial tear drops in the short term (two weeks). We found very little information as to whether autologous serum eye drops work long term or for clinical measures of dry eye. 
What was studied in this review?  Dry eye is a common disorder of the tear film, which is a layer of tears covering the surface of the eye. Dry eye affects many adults older than 40 years of age. People with dry eye may feel discomfort in one or both eyes and have sensitivity to light. There are clinical tests that are used by healthcare professionals to measure the amount of tears the eye produces and how fast tears leave the eye. Sometimes these clinical measures do not match the symptoms; a person can have severe dry eye and normal clinical test results, or mild dry eye and abnormal clinical test results. 
One common treatment for dry eye is artificial tears, which provide lubrication to the surface of the eye. However, artificial tears lack the biological nutrients found in natural tears that are critical to maintenance of the tear film. Eye drops made by separating liquid and cellular components of the patient’s blood, known as autologous serum eye drops, have been shown to possess many of the same biological nutrients found in natural tears. Because of this fact, autologous serum eye drops are believed to be a better tear substitute and have been proposed as treatment for dry eye. 
What are the main results of the review?  We found five studies in people with dry eye from Australia, Chile, Japan, and Turkey. These studies compared autologous serum eye drops versus traditional artificial tears or saline solution for treatment of dry eye. We could not combine results of the five studies in analysis owing to differences in what each study evaluated. In one study, people who received autologous serum eye drops showed better improvement in symptoms after two weeks than those who received artificial tears. However, results after longer treatment (four weeks or more) and for other outcomes had problems that prevent us from saying whether autologous serum is truly better than artifical tears or saline. The authors of this review conclude that autologous serum versus artificial tears might provide benefit for treatment of dry eye in the short term. However, the overall benefit seems unclear at this time, and much more research is needed in this area. 
How up‐to‐date is the review?  Cochrane review authors searched for studies that had been published up to July 5, 2016. 
