Mepolizumab, reslizumab or benralizumab for people already taking inhaled steroids and long‐acting beta 2‐agonists for their asthma 
Key messages 
• The asthma medicines mepolizumab, reslizumab and benralizumab reduced asthma attacks in selected individuals with severe asthma (those with high numbers of an inflammatory cell called an eosinophil in their blood). 
• There were small improvements in quality of life questionnaire scores and breathing tests, but these may be too small to be detected by patients. 
Review question 
We considered in this review whether taking the medicines mepolizumab, reslizumab or benralizumab in addition to standard treatment (such as inhaled steroids and combination inhalers) are better than a placebo (a dummy medicine) for people with asthma. 
Background 
Asthma is an inflammatory lung condition characterised by the narrowing of the airways, breathlessness, a tight chest and reduced quality of life. It affects around 350 million people worldwide. Mepolizumab, reslizumab and benralizumab are 'anti‐IL‐5' treatments that may help to reduce asthma symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
Seventeen studies compared mepolizumab, reslizumab or benralizumab to a placebo in about 7600 people with asthma, most with severe disease. We summarised the results as they related to the occurrence of asthma attacks requiring additional treatment, quality of life, breathing tests, effects on a blood biomarker (the numbers of a type of inflammatory cell called eosinophils), and unwanted effects. 
Key results 
We found that participants with severe asthma, who had high numbers of eosinophils in their blood, benefited from taking mepolizumab, reslizumab or benralizumab through reduced asthma attacks. There were small improvements in quality of life and breathing tests, but these may be too small to be detected by patients. We agree with international guidelines that say that these medicines can be added to standard treatment for people with severe asthma. Further research is needed to clarify some aspects, such as how to assess treatment response and how long to give treatment for. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence included in this review is provided by very well‐designed studies. We are confident that participants in the studies were randomly placed into different treatment groups, that neither they nor the study team were aware of the treatment they were receiving, and that the small number who did not complete the study did not affect the findings. 
This plain language summary is up to date as of 7 February 2022.
