Autologous platelet‐rich plasma (PRP) for chronic wounds
Review question 
What is autologous platelet‐rich plasma and is it useful for treating chronic wounds?
Background 
Chronic wounds (or ulcers) are breaks in the skin that do not heal, or require a long time to heal, and frequently recur. Chronic wounds include pressure ulcers, venous leg ulcers, arterial ulcers, neurotrophic ulcers, and foot ulcers in people with diabetes. Autologous platelet‐rich plasma (PRP) is a potential wound healing treatment because it has components such as fibrin (a substance produced in the liver that makes the blood clot) and high concentrations of growth factors that are thought to help healing. We reviewed the evidence on the effect of autologous PRP on wound healing in people aged 18 years or older with chronic wounds from any cause (such as pressure ulcers, arterial ulcers, venous ulcers). We also included patients with wounds of mixed aetiology e.g. mixed arterial‐venous ulcers. 
What we found 
We included 10 randomised clinical trials, with a total of 442 participants (mean age 61 years and 42% women). Four included studies recruited people with a range of chronic wounds; three studies enrolled people with venous leg ulcers; and the other three studies included people with diabetes who had foot ulcers. The median length of treatment was 12 weeks. All but three trials reported the sources of funding. Four of the studies received financial support from companies manufacturing PRP devices. 
The results were non‐conclusive as to whether autologous PRP improves the healing of chronic wounds generally compared with standard treatment. Autologous PRP may increase the healing of foot ulcers in people with diabetes compared with standard care, but it is unclear if autologous PRP has an effect on other types of chronic wound. Three studies reported wound complications such as infection or dermatitis, but results showed no difference in the risk of adverse events in people treated with PRP or standard care. These findings are based on low quality evidence due to the small number of studies and patients included, and their poor methodological quality. 
