Drain use after an appendectomy for complicated appendicitis
Review question 
Can drainage reduce the chance that an intraperitoneal abscess (a localised collection of pus in the abdomen or pelvis) will occur after an appendectomy (removal of the appendix by laparotomy (small cuts through the abdominal wall) or open appendectomy (removal of the appendix through a large incision in the lower abdomen)) for complicated appendicitis? 
Why is this important? 
'Appendicitis' refers to inflammation (the reaction of a part of the body to injury or infection, characterised by swelling, heat, and pain) of the appendix. Appendectomy, the surgical removal of the appendix, is performed primarily in individuals who have acute appendicitis. Individuals undergoing an appendectomy for complicated appendicitis, which is defined as gangrenous (soft‐tissue death) or perforated (burst) appendicitis, are more likely to suffer postoperative complications. The routine placement of a surgical drain to prevent intraperitoneal abscess after an appendectomy for complicated appendicitis is controversial and has been questioned. 
What was found? 
We searched for all relevant studies up to 24 February 2020.
We identified six clinical studies involving a total of 521 participants. All six studies compared drain use versus no drain use in individuals having an emergency open appendectomy for complicated appendicitis. The included studies were conducted in North America, Asia, and Africa. The age of the individuals in the trials ranged from 0 years to 82 years. The analyses were unable to show a difference in the number of individuals with intraperitoneal abscess or wound infection between drain use and no drain use. The overall complication rate and death rate were higher in the drainage group than in the no‐drainage group. Hospital stay was longer (about two days) in the drain group than in the no‐drain group. None of the included studies reported on costs, pain, or quality of life. All of the included studies had shortcomings in terms of methodological quality or reporting of outcomes. Overall, the certainty of the current evidence is judged to be low to very low. 
What does this mean? 
Overall, there is no evidence for any improvement in patient outcomes with the use of abdominal drainage in individuals undergoing open appendectomy for complicated appendicitis. The increased risk of complication and hospital stay with drainage is based on low‐certainty studies with small sample sizes. The increased risk of death with drainage comes from eight deaths observed in just under 400 people recruited to the studies. Larger studies are needed to more reliably determine the effects of drainage on complication and death outcomes. 
