Comparison of different platelet transfusion thresholds prior to insertion of central lines in people with a low platelet count 
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence about whether people with a low platelet count require a platelet transfusion prior to insertion of a central line (central venous catheter (CVC)), and if so what is the platelet count level at which a platelet transfusion is required. 
Background 
Patients with a low platelet count often require the insertion of central lines. Central lines are catheters whose tip usually lies in one of two main veins returning blood to the heart. They have a number of uses including: giving chemotherapy; intensive monitoring and treatment of critically‐ill patients; giving nutrition into a vein (when the patient cannot eat); and when patients require long‐term repeated treatments in to a vein. Current practice in many countries is to increase the platelet count above a pre‐specified level with platelet transfusions to prevent serious bleeding due to the procedure. However, the platelet count level recommended prior to central line insertion varies significantly from country to country. This means that clinicians are uncertain about which is the correct platelet count level, or if a platelet transfusion is required. The risk of bleeding after a central line insertion appears to be low if the clinician uses ultrasound to guide insertion of the line. Patients may, therefore, be exposed to the risks of a platelet transfusion without any obvious clinical benefit. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to February 2015. In this review one randomised controlled trial was identified that compared giving platelet transfusions at a low platelet count (25 x 109/l) versus giving platelet transfusions at a higher platelet count (50 x 109/l) prior to insertion of a central line to prevent bleeding. This trial is still recruiting and is due to complete recruitment in December 2017. There were no trials that compared no platelet transfusions versus giving platelet transfusions at a prespecified platelet count. 
Key results 
There are no results from the one eligible study because it is still recruiting participants. This ongoing study (expected to recruit 165 participants) will be unable to provide sufficient data for this review's primary outcomes because major bleeding and mortality are uncommon. We would need to design a study with at least 4634 participants to be able to detect an increase in the number of people who had major bleeding from 1 in 100 to 2 in 100. 
Quality of the evidence 
There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials to answer our review questions.
