Pre‐operative Nutrition in Patients Undergoing Surgery on the Digestive System
A large amount of research exists that links a poor level of nourishment (malnutrition) to infections and other complications after surgery on the digestive system. These other complications could include tissue breakdown at the site of surgery, heart failure, blood clots or bleeding. This review looks at literature for providing extra nourishment to patients before an operation on their digestive tract, to determine if this extra nourishment is of any benefit in reducing infections or other complications. This review looked at all methods of providing artificial nourishment to people before surgery. This included giving nourishment directly into the blood stream (parenteral nutrition), a feed given by a device that enables nourishment to be delivered directly into the digestive tract (enteral nutrition) or nutritional supplements that are taken as a drink. 
Searches of all relevant databases identified 9990 articles, and after initial screening of all these articles, 167 were selected as being suitable for this review. On reading the summaries of these trials, 33 full articles were obtained, of which 13 fulfilled the inclusion. 
Results showed that studies evaluating oral drinks with added nutrients to assist fighting infections ('immune enhancing') given before an operation could reduce total complications from 42% in the control group to 27% in those who received the drinks, while infections were reduced from 27% in the control group to 14% in the group given the drinks. Parenteral nutrition reduced total complications from 45% in the control group to 28% in the group receiving parenteral nutrition. There were no benefits demonstrated for either enteral or standard supplement drinks. 
Thus, some benefits have been demonstrated from giving nutritional support to patients before an operation with immune enhancing drinks and with parenteral nutrition. However, studies on parenteral nutrition were over 20 years old and during that time there have been many changes to surgical practice. Quality assessment of studies on PN was generally low. Immune enhancing drinks have only been tested with selected surgical patients and some unwanted effects have also been reported using these drinks in critical care patients; it is therefore unknown whether there would be detrimental effects by giving these drinks to patients who could potentially require critical care support after their surgery. No benefit of standard oral or enteral feeding was demonstrated and more research is required in these areas with malnourished patients. 
