Screening tests for Down’s syndrome in the first 24 weeks of pregnancy
Background  Down's syndrome (also known as Down's or Trisomy 21) is an incurable genetic disorder that causes significant physical and mental health problems, and disabilities. However, there is wide variation in how Down's affects people. Some individuals are severely affected whilst others have mild problems and are able to lead relatively normal lives. There is no way of predicting how badly a baby might be affected.  Expectant parents are given the choice to be tested for Down’s syndrome during pregnancy to assist them in making decisions. If a mother is carrying a baby with Down’s syndrome, then there is the decision about whether to terminate or continue with the pregnancy. The information offers parents the opportunity to plan for life with a child with Down’s syndrome.  The most accurate tests for Down’s syndrome involve testing fluid from around the baby (amniocentesis) or tissue from the placenta (chorionic villus sampling (CVS)) for the abnormal chromosomes associated with Down’s syndrome. Both these tests involve inserting needles through the mother's abdomen and are known to increase the risk of miscarriage. Thus, the tests may not be suitable for all pregnant women. Rather, tests that measure markers in the mother’s blood, urine, or on ultrasound scans of the baby are used for screening. These screening tests are not perfect as they can miss cases of Down’s syndrome and also give high risk test results to a number of women whose babies are not affected by Down’s syndrome. Thus, pregnancies identified as high risk using these screening tests require further testing using amniocentesis or CVS to confirm a diagnosis of Down’s syndrome. 
What we did  We assessed combinations of first trimester (up to 14 weeks' gestation) and second trimester serum screening tests (up to 24 weeks' gestation), with or without first trimester ultrasound screening tests, Our aim was to identify the most accurate test(s) for predicting the risk of a pregnancy being affected by Down's syndrome. We looked at one ultrasound marker (nuchal translucency) and seven different serum markers (PAPP‐A, total hCG, free βhCG, uE3, AFP, inhibin A, ADAM 12) that can be used alone, in ratios or in combination, taken before 24 weeks' gestation, thus creating 32 screening tests for Down’s. We found 22 studies, involving 228,615 pregnancies (including 1067 fetuses affected by Down's syndrome). 
What we found  For Down's syndrome screening, where tests were carried out in the first and second trimester and combined to give an overall risk, we found that a test comprised of first trimester nuchal translucency and PAPP‐A, and second trimester total hCG, uE3, AFP and Inhibin A was the most sensitive test, detecting nine out of 10 pregnancies affected by Down's syndrome. Five per cent of pregnant women receiving a high risk test result based on this combination would not be affected by Down's syndrome. There were relatively few studies assessing these tests and therefore we cannot make a strong recommendation about the best test.  Other important information to consider  The ultrasound tests themselves have no adverse effects for the woman, and blood tests can cause discomfort, bruising and, rarely, infection. However, some women who have a high risk screening test result, and are given amniocentesis or CVS have a risk of miscarrying a baby unaffected by Down’s. Parents will need to weigh up this risk when deciding whether or not to have an amniocentesis or CVS following a high risk screening test result. 
