Whole‐body cryotherapy for preventing and treating muscle soreness after exercise
Background and aim of the review 
Delayed onset muscle soreness describes the muscular pain, tenderness and stiffness experienced after high‐intensity or unaccustomed exercise. Various therapies are in use to prevent or reduce muscle soreness after exercise and to enhance recovery. One more recent therapy that is growing in use is whole‐body cryotherapy (WBC). This involves single or repeated exposure(s) to extremely cold dry air (below ‐100°C) in a specialised chamber or cabin for two to four minutes per exposure. This review aimed to find out whether WBC reduced muscle soreness, improved recovery and was safe for those people for whom it can be used. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to August 2015 for studies that compared WBC with a control intervention such as passive rest or no treatment; or with another active intervention such as cold water immersion. We found four small studies. These reported results for a total of 64 physically active young adults. All but four participants were male. The studies were very varied such as the type, temperature, duration and frequency of the WBC and the exercises used to induce muscle soreness. There were two comparisons: WBC compared with a control intervention; and WBC compared with far‐infrared therapy. 
Key results 
All four studies compared WBC with either passive rest or no treatment. These provided some evidence that WBC may reduce muscle soreness (pain at rest) at 1, 24, 48 and 72 hours after exercise. However, the evidence also included the possibility that WBC may not make a difference or may make the pain worse. There was some weak evidence that WBC may improve well‐being at 24 hours. There was no report and probably no monitoring of adverse events in these four studies. 
One very small study also compared WBC with far‐infrared therapy and reported lower levels of muscle soreness one hour after the treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
All four studies had aspects that could undermine the reliability of their results. We decided that the evidence was of very low quality for all outcomes. Thus, the findings remain very uncertain and further research may provide evidence that could change our conclusions. 
