Treatments for fatigue in peripheral neuropathy
Review question 
To assess the effects of treatments for fatigue in people with peripheral neuropathy.
Background 
Peripheral neuropathy is damage to the nerves outside the brain and spinal cord. Many people with peripheral neuropathy have feelings of severe tiredness (fatigue) that are not necessarily related to physical problems such as muscle weakness. Evidence in other long‐term illnesses where fatigue is a problem suggests that medicines and other forms of treatment may help. The aim of this review was to assess the effect of drugs and other treatments, such as general or specific exercise, orthotics (devices such as braces), relaxation, counselling and cognitive, behavioural and educational strategies on feelings of fatigue in people with peripheral neuropathy. 
Study characteristics 
From a wide search, we identified three RCTs that met our selection criteria. The trials involved a total of 530 adults with peripheral neuropathy. Treatments were ascorbic acid (vitamin C) in people with Charcot‐Marie‐Tooth disease in two trials, and amantadine in Guillain‐Barré syndrome in the third. Charcot‐Marie‐Tooth disease is an inherited nerve disease and Guillain‐Barré syndrome is a condition where there is inflammation of the peripheral nerves. We chose measures of fatigue at four to 12 weeks as our preferred measure of the effects of treatment. The amantadine trial but not the ascorbic acid trials provided data at this time point; the ascorbic acid trials provided data more than 12 months after the start of the intervention. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
There was insufficient evidence to determine the effects of amantadine when compared with an inactive treatment (placebo) for fatigue. and there were no major unwanted effects. We found evidence that ascorbic acid probably has little meaningful benefit for fatigue. No major unwanted effects were identified, but the trials were small. We assessed the quality of this evidence as moderate because the results were imprecise, which means they do not rule out the possibility that the drugs could have an effect. We found no evidence from RCTs on other medicines or treatments for fatigue in peripheral neuropathy. 
