Glucocorticosteroid‐free versus glucocorticosteroid‐containing immunosuppression for liver transplanted patients 
Review question 
We assessed whether avoiding or withdrawing glucocorticosteroids was better or worse than continuing to use glucocorticosteroids for immunosuppression after liver transplantation. 
Background 
Glucocorticosteroids are used to prevent rejection of the liver after transplantation by suppressing the immune system. Some centres use glucocorticosteroids indefinitely after liver transplantation whilst others slowly reduce them, and others do not use glucocorticosteroids at all. Glucocorticosteroids have a number of important adverse effects, which may lead to illness and sometimes death in liver transplantation. These adverse effects include diabetes mellitus, high blood pressure, and infection. 
With recent developments in immunosuppression, glucocorticosteroids no longer feature as the main immunosuppressant used following transplantation. The use of new immunosuppressant medication may mean that glucocorticosteroids may no longer be necessary after transplantation. Rather than helping to prevent rejection of the liver graft they might cause adverse effects. The benefits of avoiding glucocorticosteroids or withdrawing them after a short while remain unclear. 
Study characteristics We searched for trials comparing glucocorticosteroid avoidance or withdrawal to continuing glucocorticosteroids. Seventeen randomised clinical trials were included, of which 16 trials involving 1347 participants provided numeric data for the meta‐analyses. All of the studies assessed adults who had received a liver transplant. Of the 16 randomised clinical trials included in the meta‐analyses, 10 trials assessed avoidance of glucocorticosteroids compared with slowly reducing glucocorticosteroids (782 participants) and six trials assessed withdrawal of glucocorticosteroids following a slow reduction compared with a longer reduction or long‐term use of glucocorticosteroids (565 participants). Only eight trials reported on the type of donor used. The evidence is current to May 2017. 
Key results Rejection, severe rejection, and kidney failure may be increased by avoiding or withdrawing glucocorticosteroids compared with continuing glucocorticosteroids. Diabetes mellitus and high blood pressure may be reduced by avoiding or withdrawing glucocorticosteroids compared with continuing glucocorticosteroids. We did not find any difference in survival of the patients, survival of the liver, other adverse effects, or health‐related quality of life. 
