First aid treatments for oral poisoning
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of first aid treatments for poisoning that could be feasibly given by people who are not health professionals. 
Background 
Many first aid treatments are recommended for treating people who have ingested poisonous substances. Some treatments, such as activated charcoal (AC), bind to the poison, limiting the body's absorption of it. Others may induce vomiting (such as syrup of ipecac) or dilute or neutralize the poison (such as drinking water, milk or juices). Adjusting the person's body position may also have an effect. 
Study characteristics 
In December 2018 we searched for high‐quality studies (randomly dividing participants into different treatment groups) investigating treatments for poisoning that laypeople can perform. We found 24 studies with 7099 participants. All but one study took place in hospitals; the remaining one was in a home setting. 
Fourteen studies either did not specify the type of poison or studied different kinds. The others investigated overdoses of specific medicines (paracetamol, carbamazepine, antidepressant, benzodiazepine) or poisonous plants (yellow oleander or poisonous berries). 
Twenty‐one trials studied different treatments with activated charcoal: as a single dose or multiple doses, with or without other first aid treatments (a substance to speed up bowel transit), and with or without hospital treatments. Six studies compared syrup of ipecac, with or without other first aid treatments (single‐dose activated charcoal plus bowel transit enhancing substance) versus no treatment. We found no studies that investigated the neutralization or dilution of the poison or the use of certain body positions. 
Key results 
Two studies compared a single dose of activated charcoal to no treatment following poisoning with paracetamol or different kinds of poisoning. We are uncertain about the treatment's side effects, admission to intensive care or worsening of the patient, and there was no information about effects on death, symptom duration, poison uptake or hospitalization. 
