Corticosteroids for toxoplasma infection in the eye
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if using medication (corticosteroids) to reduce swelling (inflammation) alongside standard treatment of toxoplasmosis in the eye led to quicker symptom relief and better vision, compared with standard treatment alone. Cochrane researchers searched for all relevant studies to answer this question and found no studies. 
Key messages  There is currently no evidence for or against using corticosteroids, in addition to standard treatment, to speed up recovery and prevent visual loss in people with toxoplasmosis in the eye. 
What was studied in this review?  Toxoplasmosis is an infection caused by a parasite called Toxoplasma gondii. People can get toxoplasmosis by eating meat that has not been cooked properly, or by eating food or drinking water contaminated with pooh (feces), in particular, cat feces. Toxoplasmosis can affect different parts of the body, including the eye. Not everyone infected by toxoplasma will get symptoms in the eye. However, some people can be affected badly, and can have severe vision loss. 
People with toxoplasma infection usually take either anti‐parasite medications or antibiotics that kill the parasite. They may also use corticosteroids to reduce the swelling in the eye (inflammation). Using corticosteroids may lead to quicker symptom relief and better vision. 
What are the main results of the review?  Cochrane researchers searched multiple electronic databases for studies of the addition of corticosteroids to standard treatment for toxoplasmosis in the eye. They found no relevant studies 
People affected by toxoplasma, and doctors and nurses treating them, need evidence as to whether it is useful to take corticosteroids for toxoplasmosis in the eye. They need more information on how much to take, for how long, and when to start taking them alongside standard treatment. Future studies need to collect information on outcomes relevant to people affected by the condition, such as the time it takes to recover from signs and symptoms of vision loss. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?  Cochrane researchers searched for studies that had been published up to 7 December 2016. 
