Taking myo‐inositol as a dietary supplement during pregnancy to prevent the development of gestational diabetes 
What is the issue? 
This review aimed to investigate if myo‐inositol is an effective antenatal dietary supplement for preventing gestational diabetes in pregnant women. Women who develop gestational diabetes have a higher risk of experiencing complications during pregnancy and birth, as well as developing diabetes later on in life. The babies of mothers who have gestational diabetes can be larger than they should be potentially causing injuries to the babies at birth. These babies are at risk of diabetes even as young children or young adults. 
Why is this important? 
The number of women being diagnosed with gestational diabetes is increasing around the world so finding simple and cost‐effective ways to prevent women developing gestational diabetes is important. Myo‐inositol is a naturally occurring sugar found in cereals, corn, green vegetables and meat that has a role in the body's sensitivity to insulin. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies on 2 November 2015 and included four small randomised controlled trials involving a total of 567 women who were less than 11 weeks' to 24 weeks' pregnant at the start of the trials. The quality of the evidence was assessed as low or very low and the overall risk of bias was unclear. 
Myo‐inositol was associated with a reduction in the rate of gestational diabetes (low quality evidence), reducing the incidence from 28% in women who did not take the supplement, to between 8% and 18% in the women who took it. There was no difference between groups in terms of the number of women who had hypertensive disorders of pregnancy (including pre‐eclampsia, eclampsia and abnormally high blood pressure during pregnancy) (very low quality evidence). The trials did not provide any information about the number of babies that died (either before being born or shortly afterwards) or babies that were large‐for‐gestational age. There were no maternal adverse effects of therapy in the two trials that reported on this outcome (the other two trials did not mention this). 
This review did not find any impact on other outcomes such as the risk of having a caesarean section (low quality evidence), a large baby, obstructed labour when the baby's shoulder becomes stuck (shoulder dystocia) or a baby with low blood glucose levels. This may be due to the trials being too small to detect differences in these outcomes and the outcomes not being reported by all trials. All four trials were from Italy. 
The included trials did not report on a large number of other mother and baby outcomes listed in this review and nor were there any data relating to longer‐term outcomes for the mother or the infant, or the cost of health services. 
What does this mean? 
Myo‐inositol as a dietary supplement during pregnancy shows promise in preventing gestational diabetes but there is not enough evidence at this stage to support its routine use. Further large, well‐designed, randomised controlled trials are required to assess the effectiveness of myo‐inositol in preventing gestational diabetes and improving other health outcomes for mothers and their babies. 
