Safety of topical steroids in pregnancy
Review question 
Is it safe to use topical steroids (steroid creams or ointments) in pregnancy?
Background 
Topical steroids are the most commonly used medicines for skin conditions. Pregnant women may need topical steroids to treat skin conditions, but it is unclear if they are safe or harmful during pregnancy. We aimed to examine the safety of topical steroids in pregnancy. 
Study characteristics 
We updated the review that was previously published in 2009. We examined the research published up to July 2015 and found seven new studies. All in all, this updated review included a total of 14 observational studies that assessed 1,601,515 pregnancies. Observational studies are generally regarded as less rigorous than randomised controlled clinical trials. The funding source was from academic or governmental institutions in 10 studies and was not reported in 4 studies. 
Key results 
We found no associations between mothers' use of topical steroids of any potency and type of delivery, birth defects, premature births, or low Apgar score. 
There is some evidence indicating a relation between low birth weight and maternal use of potent or very potent topical steroids, especially when high doses are used in pregnancy, and this may warrant more research. On the other hand, maternal use of mild or moderate topical corticosteroids is not related to low birth weight. We even found that mild or moderately potent topical steroids protect against death of the baby, but this was not seen when the mothers used potent or very potent topical steroids. This finding needs further examination. 
Quality of evidence 
The overall quality of evidence is low because all available studies were observational. The high quality study design of the randomised controlled trial that allocates participants to receive either topical corticosteroids or no treatment is not generally feasible in pregnant women due to ethical concerns about possible exposure of the foetus to an experimental treatment. 
Where we further downgraded the quality of the evidence to 'very low', it was because we had detected variation in the results from the studies that we found, which means that we have low confidence in our estimates of the effects for our outcomes. 
