Brain scans for people with cerebral gliomas
Background  
Gliomas are brain tumours arising from the supporting brain tissues. They are termed low grade (WHO 1 and 2) or high grade (WHO 3 and 4), depending on their cell activity and how aggressive the tumour is. Gliomas are diagnosed in 4 to 11 people for every 100,000 each year, more commonly in high‐income countries. Whilst low‐grade, slow‐growing gliomas may be watched before deciding the most appropriate treatment (active surveillance), most people with gliomas will eventually undergo surgery to safely remove as much of the tumour as possible. After surgery, other treatments such as radiation and chemotherapy might be suitable, depending on the tumour grade and other aspects. The standard treatment for grade 4 tumours, known as glioblastomas, is radiotherapy and an anti‐cancer medicine (temozolomide). 
In people with slow‐growing tumours, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans are usually performed at regular intervals to check tumour growth before treatment. After surgery to remove gliomas of any grade, regular scans check how tumours are responding to added treatment and whether the disease is coming back. Scans are mostly performed at set timings rather than happening due to changes in a patient's condition. This is known as surveillance imaging. An MRI is often done within three days of high‐grade glioma surgery to check how much tumour has been removed. 
Instead of having regular scans, you could scan when someone experiences changes suggesting that the tumour has grown. This is known as symptomatic or triggered imaging. Brain scans can be expensive and regular scans when a person feels well may cause anxiety. Also, if a brain scan will not change treatment it might not be needed. We undertook this review because it is not known whether different timings of imaging have an impact on the time a person will survive after diagnosis. We also wanted to see which approach was better in identifying concerning tumour changes, and effects on quality of life, anxiety and depression. We also searched to see which approach would provide better value to the health service. 
