The effect of steroid inhalers containing the drug beclometasone for patients with COPD 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD; i.e. chronic bronchitis or emphysema or both, also called "smoker's lung disease") is a disease in which patients (predominantly smokers) experience breathlessness and produce a lot of phlegm or sputum. COPD is diagnosed by using international guidelines provided by the Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD). 
One of the treatments that may be used to slow down worsening of this disease consists of steroid inhalers. These inhalers are known as preventer inhalers because they are taken daily to prevent symptoms. GOLD recommends that steroid inhalers are now to be used only in combination with inhaled LABA drugs (long‐acting beta2‐agonists, e.g. formoterol). They are recommended for patients who have COPD with high risk of flare‐ups ("exacerbations"). 
Why do this review? 
It is still unsure whether these steroid preventer inhalers, such as beclometasone inhalers, make a difference to patients with COPD. 
Therefore we decided to do a systematic review of existing studies to look into the effects and side effects of beclometasone inhalers for people with COPD. 
Which questions does this review try to answer? 
Our study consisted of two parts: (A) Are beclometasone inhalers better than placebo? and (B) Is beclometasone in combination with LABA drugs in one inhaler (a beclometasone/formoterol combination inhaler) better than a LABA (formoterol) inhaler? 
How did this review do this? 
We searched all research papers of clinical trials on this topic and made a special effort to find unpublished trials. 
We compared effects on breathing ability, death rates, how often pneumonias and flare‐ups happened, how often rescue inhalers had to be used, quality of life and side effects. 
The evidence obtained is up to date to February 2013.
What were the results? 
For (A) we found two studies, with a total of 298 study participants. For (B) we found one study, with 474 study participants, all with severe (stage 3) COPD. 
For (A) we found no differences that could not be due to chance (not "statistically significant"). Therefore we found no evidence that beclometasone is better or worse than placebo for COPD. It is possible that this conclusion is not fully informed, however, as we were able to use only one trial. We await further statistics from another trial, and we suspect that many trials addressing (A) have gone unpublished in the past. 
For (B) we found real differences in breathing capacity and rescue inhalers ("statistically significant"), but as the differences were small, they are unlikely to be noticeable for patients (not "clinically significant"). We also found a real increase in the average rate of severe flare‐ups of COPD requiring hospital admission when study participants were using steroid‐containing inhalers. However, the trial authors showed that these differences could have been caused by different hospital policies in the many countries that participated. For the other aspects that we compared, we found no differences in benefits or harms; any differences found were so small that they could have been due to chance. Further research is being done in this area, and findings of these studies may change our conclusions in the future. 
Are there any criticisms of this review's results? 
Our conclusions are limited by the small number of studies that were useful (only three), the poor/average quality of the evidence and the fact that most of these studies apply only to patients with severe but very stable COPD. 
