What is the best sedative technique for patients undergoing endoscopic cholangiopancreatography (ERCP)? 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) is an uncomfortable procedure that uses an endoscope and X rays to visualize problems with patients’ bile and pancreatic ducts. An endoscope is a medical device that can be used to examine the inside of a patient’s body and consists of a long, thin, flexible, fibreoptic tube with a light source and a video camera. A large number (in excess of several 100,000) of these procedures are performed annually on a worldwide basis.  
Patients have to be given medicines to make them adequately drowsy (sedated) or unconscious (anaesthetized) to tolerate the ERCP procedure. These medicines may be administered by anaesthetic or non‐anaesthetic healthcare personnel, and there is currently some debate as to who should administer these drugs to patients for ERCP procedures. 
Two common ways of  providing sedation for ERCP are to administer combined intravenous midazolam (sedative agent) and meperidine (morphine‐like opioid) or the drug propofol (a sedative‐anaesthetic agent) to patients. This review evaluated and compared the safety and effectiveness of the sedative techniques in patients undergoing ERCP procedures. 
From a worldwide literature search we identified only four randomized controlled papers appropriate for review, involving a total of 510 patients. These papers compared the use of midazolam and meperidine with propofol sedation techniques for patients undergoing ERCP procedures. All the sedation was administered by non‐anaesthetic healthcare personnel. 
There was no significant difference between the sedation techniques as regards safety. There were no deaths in the trials and the number of major complications, such as lack of oxygen (hypoxaemia) and low blood pressure (hypotension), was comparable in both techniques. There was no difference in patient satisfaction in either group. However, the recovery of patients who received propofol was significantly better than for those who had received midazolam and meperidine for the procedure. 
In conclusion, patients undergoing ERCP procedures under propofol sedation recover faster and better than those patients receiving midazolam and meperidine sedation. This would make propofol the preferred choice for these procedures as there was no difference in the safety of either technique. Further research should focus on the safety of the sedative techniques and involve anaesthesia personnel in the administration of the sedation. 
