Dressings and topical agents for arterial leg ulcers
What is the research question? 
Does the choice of topical agents (creams or ointments) or wound dressings affect the healing of arterial leg ulcers? 
Background 
People with blood circulation problems in their legs can develop leg ulcers, with adults having around a 1% chance of suffering from a leg ulcer at some time in their life. The majority of ulcers (around 70%), result from poor blood flow in the veins and are called venous leg ulcers. These are generally treated by compression. Arterial leg ulcers (around 22% of ulcers) occur because of poor blood supply to the legs, when there is a block in a leg artery or narrowing of the arteries (atherosclerosis). Without treatment of the underlying poor arterial blood supply, ulcers take a long time to heal or may even never heal. These ulcers are treated to promote healing and protect from infection, by covering them with dressings or using topical agents, or both. A variety of types of dressings can be used, depending on whether the main intention is to treat infection, reduce ulcer pain, or manage the fluid that can leak from these ulcers (exudate), and so promote healing. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We found two small studies that presented data for 49 participants with arterial leg ulcers (search conducted January 2019). The studies also included participants with other kinds of ulcers, and it is not clear what proportion of participants were diabetic. Neither study described the methods fully, both presented limited results for the arterial ulcer participants, and one study did not provide information on the number of participants with an arterial ulcer in the control group. The follow‐up periods (six and eight weeks) were too short to measure healing. Therefore, the data that were available were incomplete and cannot be generalised to the greater population of people who suffer from arterial leg ulcers. 
One study randomised participants to either 2% ketanserin ointment in polyethylene glycol (PEG) or PEG alone, administered twice a day over eight weeks. This study reported increased wound healing in the ketanserin group, when compared with the control group. It should be noted that ketanserin is not licensed for use in humans in all countries. 
The second study randomised participants to either topically‐applied growth factors isolated from the participant's own blood (concentrated growth factors (CGF)), or standard dressing; both applied weekly for six weeks. This study reported that 66.6% of CGF‐treated diabetic arterial ulcers showed more than a 50% decrease in ulcer size, compared to 6.7% of non‐healing ulcers treated with standard dressing. 
