Blood pressure targets in people with diabetes
Review Question 
We conducted this review to find and assess all trials designed to evaluate whether lower blood pressure targets are better than standard blood pressure targets for people with diabetes. We found and analyzed five studies. 
Background 
Cardiovascular disease is a frequent complication in people with diabetes. Hypertension (high blood pressure) is frequently found in people with diabetes. Recent clinical guidelines have recommended stricter control of blood pressure in people with diabetes compared with those without. For the general population of people with hypertension, the standard target has been to achieve a blood pressure of less than 140 to 160/90 to 100 mmHg, whereas for people with diabetes the guidelines have recommended lowering this target to less than 130/80 mmHg. This trend has been based on the assumption that achieving a lower blood pressure will produce a greater reduction in cardiovascular events. 
Study Characteristics 
The evidence is current to October 2013. We found and analyzed five randomized trials including 7134 adult participants with type 2 diabetes and high blood pressure, 40‐80 years old, who received treatment aimed to lower blood pressure to a standard compared to a lower blood pressure target and followed for 2 to 5 years to detect differences in mortality and adverse events. Four out of five studies were funded by the drug manufacturer, which had a potential of impacting the results. One study was sponsored by the National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute (NHLBI) from the United States. 
Key Results 
The only significant benefit in the group assigned to 'lower' systolic blood pressure was a small reduction in the incidence of stroke, but with a significantly larger increase in the number of other serious adverse events. The effect of systolic blood pressure targets on mortality was compatible with both a reduction and increase in risk. There was no benefit associated with a 'lower' diastolic blood pressure target. 
The evidence from randomized trials available at the present time is of low quality and does not support blood pressure targets lower than the standard in people with raised blood pressure and diabetes. Further research is likely to change these results and future studies should report all outcomes that are important to patients, such as mortality and adverse events. 
