Indomethacin for controlling internal skull pressure in adults with severe traumatic brain injury 
Review question 
Indomethacin (also known as indometacin) is a drug that causes vasoconstriction, that is, it makes blood vessels narrower. We were interested in finding out how treating adults (18 years and over) with indomethacin, compared with not administering indomethacin, affects raised pressure inside the skull (cranium) that has been caused by a severe traumatic brain injury. 
Background 
Traumatic brain injury occurs when an external force injures the head. The trauma damages the brain in two different phases; firstly, at the time of impact, and then during the minutes and days following the injury, when the pressure within the skull rises (raised intracranial pressure). This is important because raised intracranial pressure is a common cause of death and disability in people with a brain injury. It is estimated that about 11% of people with traumatic brain injury die. 
Indomethacin is a drug that some researchers think can reduce intracranial pressure, and so improve the recovery of people with traumatic brain injury. 
Search date 
We searched for randomised controlled studies, which provide the most reliable evidence, up to 23 August 2019. 
Study characteristics 
We found that no randomised studies, either completed or ongoing, had investigated our review question. 
Key results 
We found no trials, either completed or ongoing, that answered our review question. Thus, this review cannot draw any conclusions about the effects of indomethacin on raised intracranial pressure, mortality rates, quality of life, disability or adverse effects in adults. 
Quality of the evidence 
There is no evidence from randomised studies to guide healthcare professionals about the effects (benefits or harms) of using indomethacin to control the raised intracranial pressure that follows severe traumatic brain injury in adults. Therefore, it was not possible to assess the quality of the evidence. 
