Laparoscopic surgery for pain and infertility associated with endometriosis
Background 
Endometriosis is the presence of tissue that normally lines the uterus (womb) in sites other than the uterine cavity, such as the ovaries (where eggs are produced), fallopian tubes (which link the ovaries and uterus) and the pelvis. It can cause pain, infertility, and other symptoms which can reduce quality of life. Different treatments for endometriosis are available, one of which is laparoscopic ('keyhole') surgery, performed to remove visible areas of endometriosis. Cochrane Review authors assessed the evidence on the use of laparoscopic surgery to treat pain and fertility problems in women with endometriosis. Laparoscopic surgical techniques include ablation, which means destruction of a lesion (for example, by burning), and excision, which means cutting a lesion out. 
Study characteristics 
We included 14 clinical trials (involving 1563 participants). They were conducted in Australia, Canada, Egypt, France, Italy, Iran and the UK. Most compared laparoscopic ablation or excision versus diagnostic laparoscopy. Only six of the 14 included trials reported their source of funding. The evidence was current to April 2020. 
Key results 
We found that it is uncertain whether laparoscopic surgery improves overall pain compared to diagnostic laparoscopy only. Unfortunately, there were no data on live birth; however, we found that laparoscopic surgery may increase intrauterine (within the womb) pregnancy rates compared to diagnostic laparoscopy only. We are uncertain whether laparoscopic excision is more effective than ablation in relieving pain, although this result came from a single study. There was insufficient evidence on side effects to allow any conclusions to be drawn regarding safety. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was moderate to very low with regard to the effectiveness of laparoscopic surgery. Additional studies are needed in this field, and these should report certain specific endpoints for endometriosis (i.e. the core outcome set, developed by healthcare professionals, researchers and women with endometriosis) and adverse events as an outcome. 
