Pharmacological interventions for drug‐using offenders
Background 
Drug‐using offenders by their nature represent a socially excluded group in which drug use is more prevalent than in the rest of the population. Pharmacological interventions play an important role in the rehabilitation of drug‐using offenders. For this reason, it is important to investigate what we know works when pharmacological interventions are provided for offenders. 
Study characteristics 
The review authors searched scientific databases and Internet resources to identify randomised controlled trials (where participants are allocated at random to one of two or more treatment groups) of interventions to reduce, eliminate, or prevent relapse of drug use or criminal activity of drug‐using offenders. We included males and female of any age or ethnicity. 
Key results 
We identified 14 trials of pharmacological interventions for drug‐using offenders. The interventions included: (1) naltrexone in comparison with routine parole, social psychological treatment or both; (2) methadone maintenance in comparison with different counselling options; and (3) naltrexone, diamorphine and buprenorphine in comparison with a non‐pharmacological alternative and in combination with another pharmacological treatment. Studies could not be combined all together because the comparisons were too different. When compared to non‐pharmacological, we found low quality evidence that agonist treatments are not effective in reducing drug use or criminal activity . We found low quality of evidence that antagonist treatment was not effective in reducing drug use but we found moderate quality of evidence that they significantly reduced criminal activity. When comparing the drugs to one another we found no significant differences between the drug comparisons (methadone versus buprenorphine, diamorphine and naltrexone) on any of the outcome measures suggesting that one pharmacological drug does not preside over another. One study provided some cost comparisons between buprenorphine and methadone, but data were not sufficient to generate a cost‐effectiveness analysis. In conclusion, we found that pharmacological interventions do reduce subsequent drug use and criminal activity (to a lesser extent). Additionally, we found individual differences and variation between the degree to which successful interventions were implemented and were able to sustain reduction of drug use and criminal activity. 
Quality of evidence 
This review was limited by the lack of information reported in this group of trials and the quality of the evidence was low. The evidence is current to May 2014. 
