Treadmill training and body weight support for walking after stroke
Review question: We wanted to assess whether walking practice on a treadmill with the body being supported by a harness as the only form of training versus in combination with other kinds of training, could improve walking when compared with other training methods for walking or no treatment. This is an update of the Cochrane review first published in 2003 and updated in 2005 and 2014. 
Background: About 60% of people who have had a stroke have difficulties with walking, and improving walking is one of the main goals of rehabilitation. Treadmill training, with or without body weight support, uses specialist equipment to assist walking practice. 
Study characteristics: We identified 56 relevant trials, involving 3105 participants, up to March 2017. Twenty‐six studies (1410 participants) compared treadmill training with body weight support to another physiotherapy treatment; 20 studies (889 participants) compared treadmill training without body weight support to other physiotherapy treatment, no treatment, or sham treatment; two studies (100 participants) compared treadmill training with body weight support to treadmill training without body weight support; and four studies (147 participants) did not state whether they used body weight support or not. The average age of the participants was 60 years, and the studies were carried out in both inpatient and outpatient settings. 
Key results: The results of this review were partly inconclusive. People after stroke who receive treadmill training with or without body weight support are not more likely to improve their ability to walk independently. The quality of this evidence was low. However, treadmill training with or without body weight support may improve walking speed and walking capacity compared with people not receiving treadmill training. The quality of this evidence was moderate. More specifically, people after stroke who are able to walk at the start of therapy appear to benefit most from this type of intervention, but people who are not able to walk independently at therapy onset do not benefit. This review found that improvements in walking speed and endurance in people who can walk have no lasting positive effect. Unwanted events such as falls and dropouts were not more common in people receiving treadmill training. 
