Interferon for the treatment of melanoma patients after surgical removal of their tumour 
Cutaneous melanoma is one of the deadliest types of skin cancer, and its incidence is rising in all Western countries. Furthermore, melanoma is one of the solid tumours most resistant to treatment with chemotherapy, which means that the outlook for people whose cancer has spread through their body (distant metastatic disease) is dismal, with only 10% of these patients surviving longer than 5 years. 
After surgical removal of the primary tumour and in the absence of distant metastatic disease, people with melanoma have variable prognosis: In fact, between 40% to 90% of these patients are alive after 5 years. Therefore, adjuvant (i.e. postoperative) therapy has been proposed to reduce the risk of death in patients with high‐risk melanoma who have more aggressive tumours that are identified according to pathological features, such as the primary tumour thickness and regional lymph node status (disease stage). 
The only compound that has shown some positive therapeutic effects in this patient group is interferon alpha, which is a protein produced by human macrophages (one type of white blood cell) and is known for its antiviral and antitumour activities. 
In this review, we gathered evidence from 18 randomised controlled trials, enrolling more than 10,000 participants, testing the hypothesis that interferon treatment can improve the survival of people with melanoma at high risk of spreading after surgical removal of the tumour. 
Whereas not all single studies demonstrated a survival benefit for patients treated with interferon, combining the available evidence, we found that the use of postoperative interferon improves the survival of those with high‐risk melanoma. On average, the toxicity associated with interferon administration (such as fever and fatigue) is limited; moreover, it is reversible when the treatment is stopped. Since interferon alpha is the only approved drug after surgery for those with high‐risk melanoma, efforts to identify those who might benefit most from this treatment are very important in order to avoid unnecessary toxicity for those who would not benefit from interferon alpha treatment. Combination of interferon with novel drugs is another field of ongoing research to improve the life expectancy of people with high‐risk melanoma. 
