Tiotropium for managing COPD
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a lung disease which includes the conditions, chronic bronchitis and emphysema. It is caused by smoking or inhaled dust, which leads to blockage or narrowing of the airways. The symptoms include breathlessness and a chronic cough. Tiotropium is an inhaled medication that helps widen the airways (bronchodilator) for up to 24 hours, and is used to manage persistent symptoms of COPD. 
We found 22 studies including 23,309 participants, comparing the long‐term effectiveness and side effects of tiotropium and placebo. Compared with placebo, tiotropium treatment led to an improvement in quality of life, fewer people had an exacerbation (worsening of COPD symptoms), or exacerbations leading to hospital admissions. The number of people that needed to be treated for a year, for one person to avoid one additional exacerbation was 16 (95% confidence interval (CI) 10 to 36). We found no statistically significant difference between the tiotropium and placebo groups in terms of the number of hospital admissions for any cause, serious adverse events or deaths during the studies. However, when we divided the data depending on whether a dry powder inhaler or a soft mist inhaler was used in the studies, these two subgroups were significantly different. With the dry powder inhaler there were fewer deaths in the tiotropium group than in the placebo group, whereas with the soft mist inhaler there were significantly more deaths in the tiotropium group than in the placebo group. Also, there was a larger number of participants that stopped study medication early in the placebo group than in the tiotropium group. 
This review shows that treatment with tiotropium improves patients' quality of life, and reduces the risk of exacerbations, including exacerbations leading to hospitalisation. But tiotropium does not reduce hospitalisations for all causes or the number of deaths. Based on the evidence in this review, tiotropium appears to be a reasonable treatment choice for patients with stable COPD. 
