Ketogenic diets for drug‐resistant epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a disorder where recurrent seizures are caused by abnormal electrical discharges from the brain. In most people, seizures can be controlled by one or more antiepileptic medicines. For people who continue to have seizures (drug‐resistant epilepsy) a special diet, a ketogenic diet, may be considered. Ketogenic diets are high in fat and low in carbohydrate. 
This review looked at the effects of ketogenic diets on seizure control, learning and memory, and behaviour. We also investigated the side effects of the diet and the number of people who withdrew from studies, plus the reasons why. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases for clinical trials of adults or children with epilepsy, where a ketogenic diet was compared with other treatments. We found 13 trials, with 932 participants. The trials were between two and 16 months long. 
Key results 
Children given ketogenic diets may be up to three times more likely to achieve seizure freedom and up to six times more likely to experience a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency compared to children given their usual care. Although the rates of seizure freedom reported by most of the studies were fairly modest, in one study over half of the children given a classical ketogenic diet became seizure free. This rate reduced to only 15% of children achieving seizure freedom when they were given a less restrictive modified Atkins diet. Another study reported that 85% of children given a classical ketogenic diet had a significant reduction in their number of seizures compared to only around half of children who received a modified Atkins diet. One study, however, found similar effects on seizure control with the better tolerated modified Atkins diet as with the more restrictive ketogenic diet, highlighting that more research is required. 
There were no reports of seizure freedom in adults following ketogenic diets, however, adults given ketogenic diets may be up to five times more likely to experience a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency. 
All studies reported people dropping out due to lack of improved seizures and poor tolerance of diet. Adults following ketogenic diets may be up to five times more likely to drop out of studies compared with usual care. For children, dropout rates may be similar in ketogenic diet and usual care treatment groups. 
One study reported the effects of ketogenic diets on quality of life, learning, memory, and behaviour in children. The study suggested no difference in the quality of life of children following a ketogenic diet and those receiving usual care. Children following ketogenic diets were suggested to be more active, more productive and less anxious, but more research is needed. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The trials only included a small number of people and their methods were unclear. We therefore judged the certainty of the evidence to be low to very low. This means that we are not confident that the results described are accurate of the true effect of ketogenic diets in people with epilepsy. 
This evidence is current to April 2019.
