Medicines given before, during, or after surgery to prevent short spikes of eye pressure after laser surgery for glaucoma 
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether medicines given before, during, or after laser trabeculoplasty (LTP), a surgical method to reduce eye pressure, can prevent increased eye pressure shortly after surgery. 
Key messages  People who received medicines to reduce eye pressure as part of their LTP surgery had a lower risk of increased eye pressure after surgery than people who did not receive medicines. We are moderately certain that medicine helped reduce spikes in eye pressure. There were no serious side effects, but they could cause conjunctival blanching (a whitening or lightening of the eye), a noticeable cosmetic difference, in the eye that received the eye drops. 
What was studied in this review?  Glaucoma is a leading cause of irreversible blindness worldwide, but treatment usually can prevent or slow visual loss. Pressure within the eye, known as intraocular pressure (IOP), is the only risk factor for glaucoma that can be treated or controlled. During a type of glaucoma surgery called LTP, the doctor uses a laser to make small cuts that drain fluid out of the front of the eye. This can lower IOP. 'Spikes' of increased IOP after LTP are common, but the spikes in IOP usually stop without treatment after the operation. However, even short periods of increased IOP can lead to further damage and permanent blindness. Research has suggested that medicines given before, during, or after surgery may prevent spikes in IOP after LTP. 
What are the main results of the review?  We included 22 studies with 2112 people, which compared the effects of medicine versus no medicine before, during, or after LTP, and one type of medicine versus another type of medicine before or after LTP. 
In the studies that compared medicine versus no medicine, people who received medicine had a lower risk of increased IOP than people who had not received medicine. This was at both two hours and up to 24 hours after the operation. The group that received medicine also had a greater reduction of IOP after surgery than people who had not received medicine. We were unable to determine whether it was better to administer medicines before or after LTP. The medicines might cause temporary conjunctival blanching. 
Based on this review, people who received medicine before or after LTP had a lower risk of increased IOP afterward. It is unclear which medicines gave the best results. Treatment was safe for patients. 
How up‐to‐date is the review?  Cochrane researchers searched for studies that had been published up to 18 November 2016. 
