Treatment for Anderson‐Fabry disease
Background 
Anderson‐Fabry disease, a rare disorder, is caused by a deficiency of the enzyme alpha‐galactosidase A. This leads to the build‐up of a fatty material called globotriaosylceramide in various cells in the body. Globotriaosylceramide is formed of three sugars and a fatty substance called ceramide, and is found in most cells of the body. Untreated individuals may suffer from pain, skin, eye and gastrointestinal problems. Fabry disease may cause potentially life‐threatening complications such as kidney damage, heart attack and stroke. One type of treatment available is enzyme replacement therapy with either agalsidase alfa or beta, which replaces the missing or deficient enzyme. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 08 July 2016.
Study characteristics 
Nine studies enrolled 351 participants. The studies used different formulations of the enzyme, Agalsidase alfa or beta, and compared them to placebo (a 'dummy' treatment) or to each other. Comparison was also made in regard to different dosing schedules. 
Key results 
Two studies comparing agalsidase alfa to placebo reported on globotriaosylceramide concentration in plasma. The combined effects were not significant between the treatment and placebo groups. The study that reported pain and pain‐related quality of life showed an improvement for participants receiving treatment over the six‐month observation period. Death was not an outcome in either study. 
One of the three studies comparing agalsidase beta to placebo reported on globotriaosylceramide and showed improvement in kidney, heart and composite results. There was no significant difference for death and no studies reported on pain. 
Only two studies compared agalsidase alfa to agalsidase beta. One of them showed no significant difference for any adverse events such as dyspnoea, hypertension and gastrointestinal symptoms ‐ these are not adverse events as gastrointestinal problems are actually a symptom, as may be hypertension in the context of renal disease. 
Two studies compared different dosing schedules of agalsidase alfa. No differences were found among the schedules for self‐assessed health state or for pain scores. 
In summary, studies comparing enzyme replacement therapy to placebo show significant results in regard to microvascular endothelial deposits of globotriaosylceramide and in pain‐related quality of life. There is, however, no evidence identifying if the alfa or beta form is superior, though included trials were small in sample size. With regards to safety, adverse events (i.e., rigors, fever) were more significant with agalsidase beta as compared to placebo. 
Quality of the evidence  From the information available in most of the study reports, we were not able to clearly judge whether all volunteers had equal chances of being in either of the treatment groups and whether they would have known in advance or during the study which treatment they were receiving. 
