Medical abortion offered in pharmacy versus clinic‐based settings
Why this review is important  
Medical abortion is offered routinely in clinics and hospitals, but could be offered in other settings such as pharmacies. In many countries, pharmacies are a first and common point of access for women seeking reproductive health information and services, including abortion. Expanding access to medical abortion through pharmacies is a potential strategy to promote safe abortion care. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
We searched seven medical research databases for randomized controlled trials, and websites for grey literature (i.e. research produced by organizations outside of the traditional commercial and academic publishing and distribution channels). In addition, we handsearched key references and contacted authors to locate unpublished studies or studies not identified in the database searches. 
We identified studies that compared women receiving the same medication and dosage for medical abortion or post‐abortion care in either a clinic or pharmacy setting. We included studies published in any language, including the following designs: randomized trials and non‐randomized studies that included a comparison group. 
We read and evaluated all abstracts and full‐text articles, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find?  
We found 2030 records. We screened the retrieved abstracts, and applied exclusion criteria. We assessed a total of 89 full‐text articles for eligibility. One prospective cohort study met our inclusion criteria. In this study, 605 women in Nepal received medical abortions from the same health care providers (auxiliary nurse midwives) in either a clinic or pharmacy‐based setting. There was no difference in complete abortion rates between the two different abortion settings. We also examined rates of blood transfusion and infection within 30 days of medical abortion. These outcomes were rare and the evidence was limited for drawing conclusions about differences by site. Additional secondary outcomes included hospital admission for an abortion‐related event, additional surgical interventions needed (besides uterine aspiration), and measures of quality of care. No hospital admissions or additional surgical procedures occurred within either group, and information about quality of care was limited. 
