Which is the most suitable source of donor blood‐forming (stem) cells for transplanting into adults with blood cancers? 
Stem cell transplantation 
Stem cell transplantation is an important treatment option for individuals with blood cancers (haematological malignancies). During the procedure, blood‐forming (stem) cells, derived from the bone marrow, peripheral blood or umbilical cord blood of a healthy donor, are transplanted into a person with a blood cancer. The aim is to replenish the recipient's body with healthy cells after treatment with conditioning regimens such as chemotherapy or radiation (or both). Peripheral blood stem cells and bone marrow stem cells are the standard stem cell sources used in adults. The most successful transplantations occur when stem cells are transplanted from a healthy donor whose tissue is genetically compatible with that of the recipient (matched related donor). If no matched donor can be identified, it is possible to transplant cells from a matched unrelated donor or from donors carrying certain mismatches. In principle, the higher the degree of genetic mismatch, the higher the risk of severe transplant‐related complications, especially graft‐versus‐host disease (GvHD), in which a donor's white blood cells (T cells) attack the recipient's healthy tissues. 
Peripheral blood versus bone marrow stem cells 
Peripheral blood stem cells are collected after the donor has received a drug that acts to mobilise stem cells from the bone marrow to the peripheral blood. Bone marrow stem cell donation involves the removal of stem cells from the pelvic bone of the donor under general anaesthesia. Donor convenience as well as logistic reasons favour peripheral blood stem cell donation. 
This review addresses the question of which stem cell source ‐ bone marrow or peripheral blood ‐ is the most suitable for individuals undergoing stem cell transplantation. 
Clinical results from several studies have been published comparing the use of bone marrow stem cells and peripheral blood stem cells in individuals with haematological malignancies. In most of these studies, the rates at which stem cells received during transplantation start to grow and make new blood cells (known as engraftment) have been shown to be faster following the transplantation of peripheral blood stem cells (PBSCT) than following transplantation of bone marrow stem cells (BMT) platelets. Some studies have reported PBSCT to be associated with a higher risk of developing GvHD than BMT. GvHD is associated with a lower risk of relapse, reflecting the capability of the immune response to simultaneously attack the malignant cells (Graft versus Malignacy effect). On the other hand, GvHD can be an important driver of transplant‐related mortality and morbidity. Disease‐free and overall survival have usually been reported not to differ between PBSCT and BMT. A systematic review from 2005, based on data from individual recipients, could not identify a preferred stem cell source and was largely based on data from the late 1990s. Since then, transplant indications and strategies, as well as supportive care measures, have changed substantially. 
Results of this meta‐analysis 
In this systemic review we included nine randomised controlled trials involving 1521 participants. Key inclusion criteria were adults undergoing stem cell transplantation for a blood cancer using either bone marrow stem cells or peripheral stem cells as a stem cell source. Participants were treated between 1994 and 2009. The evidence is current to February 2014. 
In summary, we found overall and disease‐free survival to be comparable for both PBSCT and BMT. Recipients of bone marrow stem cells from related donors were more likely to relapse than recipients of peripheral blood stem cells from related donors, but this difference was not seen in the recipients of bone marrow stem cells from unrelated donors. The incidence of acute GvHD following PBSCT and BMT was comparable; however, there was a tendency to more severe GvHD with PBSCT. PBSCT was associated with higher rates of chronic GvHD. The time to engraftment was significantly shorter with PBSCT than with BMT. The quality of the evidence was considered moderate to high. 
Conclusion 
Against the background of altering clinical strategies these results confirm that the current practice of using peripheral blood rather than bone marrow as a source of stem cells for stem cell transplantation in adults with haematological malignancies is not deleterious with respect to overall survival. 
