Probiotics for maintenance of remission in ulcerative colitis
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether probiotics can maintain remission in people with ulcerative colitis. We collected and analysed data from 12 studies with a total of 1473 people to answer this question. 
Key messages 
The question on whether probiotics can maintain remission in people with ulcerative colitis remains unanswered. There were no serious adverse events when probiotics were compared with placebo. However, one study reported similar numbers of serious adverse events in people who had probiotics and those who received 5‐aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA, an anti‐inflammatory medicine used to treat ulcerative colitis and other conditions. . More information as to what these serious adverse events are, was not provided. 
What was studied in the review? 
Ulcerative colitis is a chronic disease of the large bowel, which causes inflammation (swelling). Some of the symptoms include tummy pain, diarrhoea and tiredness. Probiotics are living microscopic organisms that are thought to change the growth of bacteria in the bowel and reduce inflammation. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing probiotics with placebo (dummy treatment), probiotics with 5‐ASA and a combination of probiotics and 5‐ASA with 5‐ASA. There were 12 RCTs involving 1473 participants. The trials looked at adult males and females. Only three studies clearly stated that participants were not allowed to take other medication outside of those being compared. 
1) There was no clear difference in the number of people who had a clinical relapse when probiotics were compared with placebo. 
2) There was also no clear difference in the number of people who had a clinical relapse when probiotics were compared with 5‐ASA. 
3) It is uncertain whether probiotics lead to a difference in the number of people who remain in clinical remission compared with placebo because the quality of evidence is very low. 
4) There was no clear difference in the number of people who remained in clinical remission when probiotics were compared to 5‐ASA. 
5) When probiotics combined with 5‐ASA was compared to 5‐ASA alone, there was no clear difference in the number of people who remained in clinical remission. 
6) It is uncertain whether probiotics combined with 5‐ASA lead to a difference in the number of people who have a clinical relapse when compared with 5‐ASA alone. 
7) No serious adverse events were reported in the trials which compared probiotics with placebo. One study which compared probiotics with 5‐ASA reported similar numbers of serious adverse events with both treatments. Discontinuation of therapy was due to gastrointestinal disorders, such as bloody stools, nausea, diarrhoea and abdominal pain. 
8) There was not enough information from the studies on how probiotics affect people's quality of life and the need for additional therapy when compared to other treatments. 
Conclusion 
We are uncertain as to whether probiotics can maintain remission in people with ulcerative colitis. This is because the studies had very few participants and were not conducted using reliable methods. With the evidence presented in these studies, we are unable to make strong conclusions into the effectiveness of probiotics; better designed studies with more participants are needed. 
