Tolerability of selective cyclooxygenase 2 (COX‐2) inhibitors used for the treatment of rheumatological manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease 
Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used to reduce inflammatory pain and swelling in inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients with rheumatological manifestations (e.g. arthritis). While these drugs effectively reduce musculoskeletal pain and stiffness, long‐term use is limited by gastrointestinal (GI) side effects and disease exacerbation (i.e. an increase in the severity of a disease or its signs and symptoms). As an alternative to NSAIDs, selective cyclooxygenase 2 (COX‐2) inhibitors were developed to improve tolerability (i.e. the degree to which the side effects of a drug can be tolerated by a patient). COX‐2 inhibitors include drugs such as celecoxib, rofecoxib, valdecoxib, etoricoxib, and lumiracoxib. Rofecoxib and valdecoxib have been withdrawn from the market worldwide due to safety concerns (most importantly an increased risk of heart attack or stroke) and lumiracoxib has been withdrawn in many countries due to liver toxicity. However, celecoxib and etoricoxib are available for use in many countries. The purpose of this systematic review was to examine the tolerability and safety of COX‐2 inhibitors used for the treatment of rheumatological manifestations of IBD. Safety refers to whether the drug causes any harm and is typically assessed by the number and type of side effects caused by the drug. 
This review does not include any studies that assessed the tolerability and safety of the withdrawn COX‐2 inhibitors rofecoxib, valdecoxib, or lumiracoxib.This review identified two studies that included a total of 381 participants with IBD who were experiencing rheumatological manifestations. One study (159 participants) compared etoricoxib (60 to 120 mg/day) to placebo (e.g. a sugar pill) in people with IBD (ulcerative colitis or Crohn's disease) who were in remission (i.e. no disease symptoms) or had active disease (i.e. had symptoms). The other study (222 participants) compared 2 weeks of treatment with celecoxib (200 mg twice daily) to placebo in people with ulcerative colitis who were in remission. The study that compared etoricoxib to placebo found no clear evidence of a difference in the proportion of patients who experienced exacerbation of IBD after 12 weeks of treatment. Although this study documented side effects experienced by the participants these side effects were not reported in the study manuscript. The study that compared celecoxib to placebo found no clear evidence of a difference in the proportion of patients who experienced exacerbation of ulcerative colitis after two weeks of treatment. The proportion of patients who experienced side effects was similar in the celecoxib and placebo groups (21% and 17%, respectively). No patients in either group died or experienced serious side effects. Eleven percent of patients in the celecoxib and placebo groups experienced GI side effects including increased stool frequency, rectal bleeding, and inflamed mucosa. No patients experienced any cardiovascular side effects (i.e. heart attack or stroke). Renal toxicity (i.e. the poisonous effect of a substance on the kidneys) or thrombotic side effects (i.e. the formation of a blood clot inside a blood vessel) were not reported. The results of the two included studies in this review suggest that celecoxib and etoricoxib do not exacerbate IBD symptoms. However, it should be noted that both studies assessed relatively small numbers of patients and were of short duration. Futhermore, the overall quality of the evidence from the studies was rated as low due to lack of precision of the results. No firm conclusions on the tolerability and safety of celecoxib and etoricoxib can be drawn from these studies. Further studies are needed to determine the tolerability and safety of celecoxib and etoricoxib in patients with rheumatological manifestations of inflammatory bowel disease. 
