Does dermoscopy improve the accuracy of diagnosing basal cell or squamous cell skin cancer (BCC or cSCC) compared to using the naked eye alone? 
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out whether using a handheld illuminated microscope (dermatoscope or ‘dermoscopy’) is any better at diagnosing basal cell carcinoma (BCC) or cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) compared to just looking at the skin with the naked eye. We included 24 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving diagnosis of BCC or cSCC important? 
There are a number of different types of skin cancer. BCC and cSCC are less serious than melanoma skin cancer, because they usually grow more slowly and BCC does not spread to other organs in the body. Making the correct diagnosis of BCC or cSCC is still important, because their treatment may differ. A missed BCC (known as a false negative result) can result in disfigurement and the need for more major surgery. A missed cSCC can spread to other parts of the body. Diagnosing BCC or cSCC when they are not actually present (a false positive result) may mean unnecessary treatment, e.g. surgical removal which may result in a disfiguring scar, and worry to patients if the lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) is benign (not a cancer), or may result in wrong treatment, e.g. a non‐surgical therapy, being used if the lesion is misdiagnosed. 
What was studied in the review? 
A dermatoscope is a handheld magnifier that includes a light source. Dermoscopy is often used by skin specialists to help diagnose skin cancer. It is also being used more by community doctors. 
As well as seeing whether dermoscopy added anything to visual inspection alone overall, we also wanted to find out whether dermoscopy accuracy was different when used in a face‐to‐face consultation or when used on images of skin lesions sent to specialists. We also tried to find out whether the accuracy of dermoscopy was improved by use of a checklist, or if it was better when used by a skin specialist compared to a non‐specialist. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included 24 studies reporting information for people with lesions suspected of skin cancer. 
Diagnosis of BCC with the patient present 
We found 11 relevant studies. Eight studies (including 7017 suspicious skin lesions) investigated the accuracy of visual inspection on its own and seven studies (with 4683 suspicious skin lesions) investigated the accuracy of dermoscopy added to visual inspection (four of which reported data for both visual inspection on its own and for dermoscopy added to visual inspection). The results suggest that dermoscopy is more accurate than visual inspection on its own, both for identifying BCC correctly and for excluding things that are not BCCs. 
The results can be illustrated using a group of 1000 lesions, of which 170 (17%) are BCC. In order to see how much better dermoscopy is in identifying BCC correctly when compared to just looking at the skin, we have to assume that both lead to the same number of lesions being falsely diagnosed as BCC (we assumed that 166 of the 830 lesions without BCC would have an incorrect diagnosis of BCC). In this fixed situation, adding dermoscopy to visual inspection would correctly identify an extra 24 BCCs (158 compared with 134) that would have been missed by just looking at the skin alone. In other words, more BCC cancers would be correctly identified. 
In order to see how much better dermoscopy is in deciding if a skin lesion is not a BCC when compared to just looking at the skin, we have to assume that both lead to the same number of BCCs being correctly diagnosed (in this case we assumed that 136 out of the 170 BCCs would be correctly diagnosed). In this situation, adding in dermoscopy to visual inspection would reduce the number of lesions being wrongly diagnosed as being BCC by 183 (a reduction from 191 in the visual inspection group to eight people in the dermoscopy group). In other words, more lesions that were not BCC would be correctly identified, and fewer people would end up being sent for surgery. 
Image‐based diagnosis of BCC 
Eleven studies concerning BCC diagnosis using either clinical photographs or magnified images from a dermatoscope were included. Four studies, (including 853 suspicious skin lesions) used visual inspection of photographs and nine studies (including 2271 suspicious lesions) used dermoscopic images (two studies reported data for diagnosis using both photographs and using dermoscopic images). Results were very similar to the in‐person studies. 
