Palliative care interventions for people with multiple sclerosis
Objective 
To assess the effects (benefits and harms) of palliative care interventions compared to usual care for people with any form of multiple sclerosis: relapsing‐remitting MS (RRMS), secondary‐progressive MS (SPMS) and primary‐progressive MS (PPMS). We also aimed to compare the effects of different palliative care interventions. 
Background 
Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a chronic, disabling and progressive condition that affects around 2.3 million people worldwide. The many symptoms of MS create emotional, psychosocial and physical burdens for those affected. Palliative care is defined as the active and total care of pain and psychological, spiritual and social problems of people with a disease that does not respond to curative treatments. Palliative care includes the relief of pain and other stressor symptoms, the promotion of the concept of life and death as something natural, promoting respect for the natural course of death, the integration of psychological and spiritual aspects into patient care, and the preservation of an active life for as long as possible. 
Study characteristics 
Three studies involving 146 participants were included in this review. All three studies compared palliative care delivered in home visits versus usual care for people with MS. Two studies included only participants with MS. The third study (Ne‐PAL) included participants with MS and other neurodegenerative diseases. In all three studies, interventions focused on assessment and management of symptoms and end‐of‐life planning. We did not find studies that compared different types of palliative care with each other. 
Key results 
We are uncertain about differences between palliative care versus usual care for the following outcomes assessed at long‐term follow‐up (> six months post‐intervention): change in health‐related quality of life, adverse events and hospital admission. The included studies did not assess fatigue, cognitive function, relapse‐free survival or sustained progression‐free survival. 
