Similar to other illicit drug disorders, cannabis use disorder is not easily treated by psychosocial interventions provided in out‐patient and community settings. CBT in individual and group sessions and MET in individual sessions were the most consistently explored treatments; they have demonstrated effectiveness over control conditions. In particular, psychosocial treatment was consistently effective over no treatment in reducing the frequency of cannabis use (with nine studies showing superior outcomes and four showing comparable outcomes), quantity used per occasion (seven studies showing superior outcomes and two showing comparable outcomes) and severity of dependence (with seven studies showing superior outcomes and two showing comparable outcomes). In contrast, treatment was not likely to be more effective than no treatment in improving cannabis‐related problems (with four studies showing superior outcomes and seven showing comparable outcomes), motivation to quit (with no studies showing superior outcomes and three showing comparable outcomes), other substance use (with no studies showing superior outcomes and seven showing comparable outcomes) or mental health (with no studies showing superior outcomes and five showing comparable outcomes). Comparison of studies reporting treatment gains was possible for a subset of studies with short‐term follow‐up of approximately four months. This analysis found that those receiving any intervention reported fewer days of cannabis use, used fewer joints per day and reported fewer symptoms of dependence and fewer cannabis‐related problems. High‐intensity interventions of more than four sessions and those delivered over longer than one month, particularly MET + CBT interventions, were most effective. In addition, interventions were completed as intended by most participants. Notably, three studies investigated the effectiveness of psychosocial intervention compared with treatment as usual delivered at psychiatric out‐patient centres and reported little evidence of significant group differences in treatment outcomes. Finally, results from six studies, which included contingency management adjunct treatments, were mixed but suggested that improvements in cannabis use frequency and severity of dependence were likely when combined with CBT or with MET + CBT. Invesigators reported no adverse effects. 