Combined beta‐agonists and anticholinergics compared to beta‐agonists alone for adults with asthma treated in emergency departments 
Review question 
We looked at if combined treatment of short‐acting beta‐agonists and anticholinergics were more effective to improve outcomes in adults with asthma who were treated in emergency departments compared to treatment with beta‐agonists alone. 
Background 
Asthma attacks result from airway passages to the lungs becoming constricted due to inflammation, resulting in wheezing, coughing, and difficulty breathing. People experiencing asthma attacks often go to emergency departments, and are usually treated using short‐acting inhaled beta‐agonists, although some patients may be treated with short‐acting inhaled anticholinergics. 
Some research looks at whether treating people with asthma in emergency departments with a combination of beta‐agonists and anticholinergics is more effective than beta‐agonists alone. 
Search date 
The search was current to July 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included 23 studies that compared the effectiveness of combined treatment with beta‐agonists and anticholinergics versus treatment with beta‐agonists alone. A total of 2724 adult participants were enrolled in the studies. Salbutamol (also called albuterol) was the most common beta‐agonist investigated and ipratropium bromide was the most common anticholinergic assessed. 
Study fundin g sources 
We found that most studies did not report sources of funding (14 studies); one study was supported by a hospital; another received support from a pharmaceutical company, but indicated that there was no involvement from the company in conducting or reporting research. Two studies were part‐funded and four were funded by pharmaceutical companies. 
Key results 
Patients with severe asthma who received combined treatment of beta‐agonists and anticholinergics were less likely to be admitted to hospital. An estimated 65 fewer patients per 1000 would require hospital admission after receiving combined inhaled therapy in the emergency department. Among patients with mild ‐to‐moderate asthma, combined inhaled therapy was less effective in preventing admission to hospital compared with people with severe asthma. Patients receiving combined treatment were less likely to return to the emergency department with worsening asthma symptoms and had better outcomes in most lung function tests. On the other hand, 103 more participants per 1000 who receive combined inhaled therapy would experience side effects compared to people who receive beta‐agonists alone. 
Quality of the evidence 
Quality of the evidence that combination inhaled therapy can improve health outcomes compared to treatment with beta‐agonists alone ranged from very low to moderate. Our confidence about the effects of combination inhaled therapy on hospital admissions, peak expiratory flow, percent change in peak expiratory flow from baseline, and relapse was moderate because of the overall risk of bias among included studies. Factors associated with inconsistency and imprecision were additional aspects that reduced the quality of the evidence for forced expiratory volume in one second, and percent predicted peak expiratory flow. 
