Factors that influence whether healthcare workers follow infection prevention and control guidelines for respiratory infectious diseases 
What is the aim of this review? 
Coronavirus (COVID‐19) is a respiratory infectious disease that has spread throughout the world. Healthcare workers treating patients with COVID‐19 are at risk of infecting themselves and others by breathing in droplets from infected patients and touching contaminated surfaces. Governments and organisations publish infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines to reduce transmission of infections. IPC guidelines cover using personal protective equipment (PPE) like masks, gloves, and gowns; separating patients with respiratory infections; and stricter cleaning routines. However, how much healthcare workers follow this guidance varies. 
The aim of this Cochrane review of qualitative research (“qualitative evidence synthesis”) was to explore what influences whether healthcare workers follow infection prevention and control (IPC) guidelines for respiratory infectious diseases. To answer this question, we analysed 20 qualitative studies of healthcare workers' views and experiences of IPC guidelines. 
Key messages 
Healthcare workers point to several factors that influence their ability and willingness to follow IPC guidelines when managing respiratory infectious diseases. These include factors linked to the guideline content and how it is communicated, support from managers, workplace culture, training, physical space, access to and trust in personal protective equipment (PPE), and a desire to deliver good patient care. The review also highlights the importance of including all healthcare facilities staff when implementing guidelines. 
What was studied in this review? 
We searched for studies that examined healthcare workers’ views and experiences towards IPC guidelines – particularly for respiratory diseases that start suddenly, like COVID‐19. Guidelines could be local, national, or international, for any healthcare setting. We included studies of any healthcare worker who looked after patients in any healthcare setting. We searched for studies published from 2002 onwards to cover the 2003 severe acute respiratory syndrome (SARS) outbreak onwards. 
What are the main findings of this review? 
We analysed 20 studies. Ten studies were from Asia, four each from Africa and North and Central America, and two from Australia. The studies explored the views and experiences of nurses, doctors and other healthcare workers when dealing with SARS, H1N1 (‘swine flu’), Middle East respiratory syndrome (MERS), tuberculosis or seasonal influenza. Most healthcare workers worked in hospitals. 
Our review pointed to several factors that influenced healthcare workers’ adherence to IPC guidelines. We judged the following findings to be well supported or very well supported (moderate to high confidence) by the studies we found. 
Healthcare workers were unsure whether to follow local guidelines if they differed from national or international guidance. They struggled to follow long or unclear guidelines, especially if their advice was impractical or kept changing. Use of PPE and additional cleaning meant that following IPC guidelines increased workload and fatigue. Healthcare workers’ responses to IPC guidelines were influenced by the support they received from management and their workplace culture. 
Healthcare workers emphasised the importance of clear communication about IPC guidelines. But healthcare workers pointed to a lack of training about the infection itself and about how to use PPE. They thought it was a problem when training was not compulsory and believed all staff, including cleaners, porters, kitchen and other support staff, should be included in IPC training. 
Insufficient space to isolate patients, and lack of anterooms, showers and easy access to handwashing facilities was a problem. Practical measures, such as minimising overcrowding, fast‐tracking infected patients and restricting visitors were important for reducing infection. 
Lack of, and poor‐quality, PPE was a serious concern for healthcare workers and managers. Supplies need to be adjusted as infection outbreaks continue. Healthcare workers found PPE uncomfortable to use and some found PPE made patients feel isolated and frightened. 
Healthcare workers believed that they followed IPC guidance more closely when they saw its value, for example, reducing the risk of infecting themselves and their families, or protecting their patients. 
Many factors affect healthcare workers’ willingness and ability to follow IPC guidelines. Our review includes a set of questions drawn from our findings to help healthcare providers plan, implement, or manage IPC strategies to help their workers follow IPC guidelines. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
This review includes studies published up to 26 March 2020.
