Interventions to reduce haemorrhage during myomectomy for treating fibroids
Background 
Some women have non‐cancerous growths of the uterus, called fibroids. In a third of cases the fibroids produce symptoms, such as vaginal bleeding, that warrant treatment. The surgical removal of the fibroids, called myomectomy, is one of the treatment options for fibroids. It can be accomplished by either laparotomy (through an incision into the abdomen) or laparoscopy (keyhole surgery). The procedure is associated with heavy bleeding. Many interventions have been used by doctors to reduce bleeding during an operation for removing fibroids but it is unclear whether or not the interventions are effective. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to June 2014. The review included 18 studies with a total of 1250 women who had myomectomy for uterine fibroids. All studies compared an intervention to reduce bleeding during myomectomy with either a placebo or no such treatment. 
Key results 
The data available suggest that vaginal insertion of misoprostol and infiltration of vasopressin into the uterine muscle are effective in reducing bleeding during myomectomy. Limited data available also suggest that chemical dissection (such as with mesna), vaginal insertion of dinoprostone, a gelatin‐thrombin matrix, tranexamic acid, infusion of vitamin C (ascorbic acid) during surgery, infiltration of a mixture of bupivacaine and epinephrine into the uterine muscles, the use of fibrin sealant patch (a surgical patch that improves blood clotting) or a tourniquet around the cervix or around both the cervix and the infundibulopelvic ligamentmay be effective in reducing bleeding during myomectomy. We found limited information on the harms (adverse effects) of the different interventions. 
Quality of the evidence 
There is moderate‐quality evidence that misoprostol reduces blood loss by between 70.24 ml and 125.52 ml; with a laparotomy vasopressin reduces blood loss by between 392.51 and 507.49 ml during myomectomy, and by between 121.73 ml and 172.17 ml during laparoscopic myomectomy. There is low‐quality evidence for the rest of the interventions (chemical dissection, dinoprostone, gelatin‐thrombin matrix, tranexamic acid, vitamin C, mixture of bupivacaine and epinephrine, a fibrin sealant patch and the two types of tourniquet). 
