Screening and subsequent treatment for thyroid dysfunction before or during pregnancy to improve outcomes for mothers and their babies 
What is the issue? 
What are the effects of different screening methods (for example screening all women versus screening only some women, or not screening women) for thyroid dysfunction before or during pregnancy on outcomes for the mother and her baby? 
Why is this important? 
The thyroid is a large gland in the neck that produces hormones that help to regulate the chemical processes in the body that maintain life, including growth and energy use. If a woman has an overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism), or an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) in pregnancy which is not managed, there is a possibility of poor outcomes for the mother and her baby. The mother may be more likely to develop high blood pressure and protein in the urine (pre‐eclampsia), give birth before 37 weeks of gestation (preterm birth), and her baby may develop disabilities (such as cerebral palsy, blindness, deafness and other developmental delays including intellectual impairment). Managing thyroid dysfunction in pregnancy (e.g. thyroxine for hypothyroidism, or antithyroid medication for hyperthyroidism) may improve outcomes for mothers and their babies. There are different methods of screening for thyroid dysfunction, including case finding, which means screening only pregnant women who are thought to be at high risk of thyroid dysfunction, or universal screening, which involves screening all pregnant women. Although universal screening may help to diagnose more women with hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism than case finding, it could also lead to more women having medications and may be costly. It is not currently clear what the effects are of these different methods of screening for thyroid dysfunction for the mother and her baby, and health services. 
What evidence did we find? 
In our search of the medical literature we found two randomised controlled trials, involving 26,408 women. The quality of the included trials was high, and the quality of the evidence they provided was moderate to high. 
