Shock wave therapy for elbow pain
Does shock wave therapy work to treat tennis elbow and is it safe?  To answer this question, scientists analyzed 9 studies testing over 1000 people who had tennis elbow. Most people had pain for a long period of time and the pain had not improved with other treatments. People tested received either shock wave therapy or fake therapy 3 times over 3 weeks to 3 months. Improvement was tested after 1 week to 12 months. These studies provide the best evidence we have today.   What is tennis elbow and how could shock wave therapy help?  Tennis elbow or lateral epicondylitis can occur for no reason or be caused by too much stress on the tendon at the elbow. It can cause the outside of the elbow and the upper forearm to become painful and tender to touch. Pain can last for 6 months to 2 years, and may get better on its own. Many treatments have been used to treat tennis elbow, but it is not clear whether these treatments work or if the pain simply goes away on its own. Shock wave therapy involves sending sound waves to the elbow by a machine. It is not well known why and how it might work to improve pain. 
What did the studies show?  Five studies show that pain, function and grip strength was the same or slightly more improved with shock wave therapy than with fake therapy. Four studies show more improvement with shock wave therapy. 
But when the results from some of the studies were pulled together, overall shock wave therapy improved symptoms just as well as fake therapy. 
One study compared shock wave therapy to steroid injections. It shows that steroid injections may improve symptoms more than shock wave therapy.   Were there side effects?  Side effects usually did not last long and went away after therapy. Side effects included pain and reddening of the skin where the shock wave therapy was given, and some people had nausea.   What is the bottom line?  There is "Platinum" level evidence that shock wave therapy provides little or no benefit in terms of improving pain and function in tennis elbow. Shock wave therapy may cause pain, nausea and reddening of the skin. 
