Organised inpatient (stroke unit) care
Review questionDoes organised inpatient (stroke unit) care improve the recovery of people with stroke in hospital compared with conventional care in general wards? 
BackgroundOrganised inpatient (stroke unit) care is a form of care provided in hospital by nurses, doctors, and therapists who specialise in looking after people with stroke. They aim to work as a co‐ordinated team to provide the most appropriate care tailored to the needs of individual people with stroke. 
Study characteristicsWe identified 29 trials involving 5902 participants (search completed 2 April 2019). Participants who were recruited had had a recent stroke and required admission to hospital. Organised inpatient (stroke unit) care was provided in a variety of ways including stroke ward (care provided in a discrete stroke ward), mixed rehabilitation ward (setting seeking to improve care for people with stroke within a mixed rehabilitation ward), and mobile stroke team (peripatetic team looking after people with stroke across a range of wards). 
Key resultsAt an average of 12 months after their stroke, people who received organised inpatient (stroke unit) care were more likely to be alive (an extra two people surviving for every 100 receiving stroke unit care; moderate‐quality evidence) and living at home (an extra six patients for every 100 receiving stroke unit care; moderate‐quality evidence). They also were more likely to be independent in daily activities (an extra six patients for every 100 receiving stroke unit care; moderate‐quality evidence). The apparent benefits were seen in men and women, older and younger patients, and people with different types of stroke and different stroke severity. Benefits were most obvious when the stroke unit was based in a discrete stroke ward. 
Quality of the evidenceWe downgraded the quality of evidence to 'moderate' for the main outcomes because it was impossible to hide the treating service from participants or healthcare workers. These conclusions were not dependent on trials judged to be of lower quality because of poor design or missing data. More information was missing for some of the other outcome measures and analyses, which we have downgraded to low‐quality evidence. 
ConclusionPeople with stroke who receive organised inpatient (stroke unit) care are more likely to be alive, living at home, and independent in looking after themselves one year after their stroke. Apparent benefits were seen across a broad range of people with stroke. Various types of stroke units have been developed. The best results appear to come from stroke units based in a dedicated stroke ward. 
