Noninvasive positive pressure ventilation for acute respiratory failure following upper abdominal surgery 
Review question 
The goal of this review was to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of noninvasive positive pressure ventilation (NPPV) (continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) or bilevel NPPV) compared with oxygen therapy alone in adults with acute respiratory failure after upper abdominal surgery. 
Background 
Acute respiratory failure , where fluid builds up in the lungs stopping oxygen from crossing into the blood, is a relatively common complication after abdominal surgery and can increase the risk of dying (mortality). 
NPPV is a type of treatment that helps to improve breathing without having to insert a tube inside a person's windpipe (tracheal intubation). This intervention is effective in several illnesses. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for clinical trials looking at the treatment of adults with acute respiratory failure following abdominal surgery. The trials compared NPPV with usual care(oxygen therapy through a face mask). We included two trials involving 269 participants.The participants were mostly men (67%) and on average 65 years of age. One trial was conducted in several intensive care units (ICU). Both trials included adults with acute respiratory failure after upper abdominal surgery. The evidence is current to May 2015. 
Key results 
This review examined mortality, rate of tracheal intubation, length of stay in the ICU, length of hospital stay, complications after NPPV, and changes in the levels of gases within the blood (arterial blood gases). 
Compared with oxygen therapy, NPPV decreased the rate of tracheal intubation. Out of every 1000 adults who developed acute respiratory failure after upper abdominal surgery, 181 adults treated with oxygen therapy would need to be intubated compared with 54 adults treated with NPPV. 
When compared to oxygen therapy, NPPV tended to reduce mortality. However, since the number of participants included in the two trials was small, more studies are needed. 
The use of NPPV also reduced the length of stay in the ICU by almost two days when compared to oxygen therapy. However, the mean length of stay in the hospital was similar in the two groups. 
When compared to oxygen therapy, NPPV improved blood gas levels one hour after the intervention. 
There was insufficient evidence to be certain that CPAP or NPPV had an effect on anastomotic (e.g. where two pieces of intestine are joined together) leakage, pneumonia related complications and sepsis (blood poisoning) or infections. However, adults treated with NPPV had lower rates these complications than adults treated with oxygen. 
Quality of the evidence 
There was low quality evidence for hospital mortality, low quality of evidence for rate of tracheal intubation, and very low quality of evidence for ICU length of stay. 
Authors' conclusions 
The findings of this review showed that NPPV is an effective and safe treatment for adults with acute respiratory failure after upper abdominal surgery. However, due to the low quality of the evidence, more good quality studies are needed to confirm these findings. 
