Management of minor cytological abnormalities identified on cervical screening
The issueCervical screening programmes reduce the risk of cervical cancer, through the use of cervical cytology (smear tests), which aim to detect and treat any precancerous changes which might put some women at risk of developing invasive disease (invasive cervical cancer) in the future. Usually only severe precancerous changes require treatment, however, there is some discrepancy in how to manage women with minor cytological changes (atypical squamous cells of undetermined significance (ASCUS/borderline) or low‐grade squamous intra‐epithelial lesions (LSIL/mild dyskaryosis) if HPV (human papillomavirus) testing is not routinely available. 
The aim of the reviewWe aimed to assess whether immediate colposcopy or 'watchful waiting', with repeat cervical cytology, was better for women with minor cervical cytological abnormalities. 
What are the main findings?We included 5 randomised controlled trials including 11,466 participants with minor abnormalities on cervical cytology, treated either with immediate colposcopy or repetitive cytology. The included studies assessed differences in occurrence of cervical precancerous lesions between the two treatments. 
The results suggested that women attending immediate colposcopy after a single low‐grade abnormal cervical cytology test were more likely to have clinically insignificant findings detected than women who were managed with 'watchful waiting'. 
There were 18 cases of invasive cervical cancer, seven in the immediate colposcopy and 11 in the cytological surveillance groups. The detection rate of clinically insignificant low‐grade lesions was higher in the immediate colposcopy group, as was the detection rate of clinically more significant high‐grade precancerous lesions (CIN2 or CIN2 or worse) at 18 months, but not by 24 months. 
The risk of non‐compliance was significantly greater for the repeat cytology arm and increased with the length of the follow‐up. 
What is the quality of the evidence? We graded the evidence as low to moderate quality. 
What are the conclusions?HPV DNA testing has been shown to be an effective triage tool for women with minor cervical cytology abnormalities. However, this test is not currently routinely available globally. Therefore, if HPV DNA testing is not available, immediate colposcopy is likely to detect more precancerous lesions earlier than cytological surveillance, but after two years there does not seem to be a difference between the two approaches. Women could be referred for immediate colposcopy after a single low‐grade abnormal or borderline cervical cytology test, if compliance with cytological surveillance is expected to be poor. When follow‐up compliance is expected to be good, repeat cervical cytology may be offered, as this may reduce the risk of over‐diagnosis and over‐treatment. 
