Biologics for rheumatoid arthritis: an overview of Cochrane reviews
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of biologics on Rheumatoid Arthritis (RA). 
The review shows that in people with RA; 
      ‐  abatacept, adalimumab, etanercept, infliximab, and rituximab probably improve signs of rheumatoid arthritis such as the number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability. 
      ‐  anakinra probably improves signs of rheumatoid arthritis such as the number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability (but not as well as the others).  
We do not have precise information about possible side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include a serious infection or upper respiratory infection. Rare complications may include certain types of cancer.  
What is Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and what are biologics? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints making them inflamed. This inflammation causes your joints to be hot, swollen, stiff, and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. If the inflammation goes on without treatment, it can lead to damaged joints.  Once the joint is damaged it cannot be repaired, so treating rheumatoid arthritis early is important. 
Biologics are a group of medications that suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation in the joints. Even though suppressing the immune system can make it slightly harder to fight off infections, it also helps to stabilize an overactive immune system. By reducing the inflammation, the aim is to help prevent damage to the joints. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take biologics: 
ACR 50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other doctor or patient assessed aspects of rheumatoid arthritis) 
Among people who took abatacept, 44 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (23% absolute improvement). 
Among people who took adalimumab 49 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (28% absolute improvement). 
Among people who took anakinra 30 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (9% absolute improvement). 
Among people who took etanercept 57 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (36% absolute improvement). 
Among people who took infliximab 43 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (22% improvement). 
Among people who took rituximab 52 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the signs of their rheumatoid arthritis compared to 21 people out of 100 who took a placebo (31% improvement). 
