Continuous versus interrupted stitches for closing the skin after non‐childbirth surgery
Background 
During operations surgeons make a cut (incision) in the skin to gain access to the surgical site. Incisions are closed with sutures (stitches), staples, tissue adhesives or tapes. Sutures can be continuous or interrupted. Continuous sutures are usually inserted underneath the skin surface using absorbable or non‐absorbable suture material. Interrupted sutures involve the full thickness of the skin and are usually non‐absorbable (but not always). 
Impaired wound healing increases costs of health care and leads to poor cosmetic results. We investigated whether it is better to use continuous or interrupted sutures to close wounds after non‐childbirth surgery by performing a thorough search of the medical literature for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared these two methods of skin closure (in August 2013). 
Study characteristics 
We identified five RCTs with a total of 827 participants. Seven hundred thirty participants (384 received continuous sutures and 346 interrupted sutures) provided data for this review. Participants had abdominal or groin operations. 
Key results 
The only outcomes reported were, superficial surgical site infection, superficial wound breakdown and length of hospital stay. No other important outcomes, including quality of life, long‐term patient outcomes and use of healthcare resources, were reported. 
Approximately 6% of participants developed superficial surgical site infection, but there was no significant difference between the two groups in the proportion of participants who developed these. Approximately 4% of participants developed superficial wound breakdown. The proportion of participants with this problem in the continuous suture group was approximately one‐tenth of that in the interrupted suture group. Most wound breakdowns occurred in two trials that used absorbable sutures for continuous suturing and non‐absorbable sutures for interrupted suturing. Non‐absorbable sutures are removed seven to nine days after surgery, but absorbable sutures are not removed, and so support the wound for longer ‐ which may account for the difference in distribution of this problem between groups. There was no significant difference between groups for length of hospital stay. 
Superficial wound breakdown is reduced by continuous subcuticular suturing. However, the trials that contributed to this result had suture removal in only one group (interrupted sutures), which may have led to this observation. The number of participants included in this review was small and follow‐up after surgery was short. 
