Does giving patients carbohydrate supplements before planned surgery lead to improved recovery? 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on effects of carbohydrate supplements on the recovery of people undergoing planned surgical procedures. We found 27 studies investigating this question. 
Background 
Carbohydrate (sugar‐containing) nutritional supplements have become a routine part of the package of care for people undergoing planned surgical procedures. We wanted to discover whether carbohydrate supplements are a useful part of care packages used by doctors to improve recovery after planned surgical procedures. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current up to March 2014. We identified 27 studies and included the outcomes of 1976 participants. Studies investigated the outcomes of patients undergoing planned surgical procedures on the abdomen (18), the bones or joints (4), the heart (4) or the thyroid gland (1). 
Eighteen studies compared carbohydrate supplements versus an identical appearing placebo drink that did not contain carbohydrates; in six of these studies, an additional group of patients had nothing to eat or drink for at least six hours before surgery. In nine studies, taking carbohydrate supplements was compared with having nothing to eat or drink for six hours before surgery. 
The primary outcomes of length of hospital stay and complication rate were reported by 19 and 14 studies, respectively. 
Key results 
Patients given carbohydrates before planned surgical procedures went home between 0.04 and 0.56 days sooner than those receiving a placebo drink or having nothing to eat or drink before surgery. Carbohydrate supplements had little or no effect on complication rate or on how people feel in‐hospital during recovery from surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence varied from very low to high. The quality of evidence in support of carbohydrate supplements resulting in a shorter hospital stay was very low because the included studies had important flaws in their design, a very wide range of results was described and evidence revealed that studies showing no differences in length of hospital stay may not have been published. When we looked only at well‐conducted studies, we found that carbohydrate supplements had little or no effect on length of hospital stay. 
The quality of evidence to support the effects of carbohydrate supplements on complication rate was low because issues with study design were identified and results were not similar across studies. 
