Treatment options for neuroendocrine tumours
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on safety and efficacy of therapies for neuroendocrine tumours (NETs) in the gastrointestinal tract and the pancreas to provide a ranking of these treatment options. 
Background 
NETs are a varied group of rare cancers, which can occur anywhere in the body. However, most neuroendocrine tumours derive from the gastrointestinal tract or the pancreas. There are many types of NETs with different growth rates and symptoms. While some NETs produce excess hormones, others do not release hormones, or not enough to cause symptoms. The treatment options, as well as their combinations and sequencing, depend on the type of tumour, its location, aggressiveness, and whether it produces excess hormones. 
Until now, no clear recommendations could be given about which NET therapies were the most effective and caused the fewest adverse events. We used statistical methods to compare all therapies with each other based on the available information. 
Study characteristics 
We included 22 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are randomly assigned to treatment groups), published before 11 December 2020, with a total of 4299 people. There were differences in tumour location (gastrointestinal and pancreatic), tumour type, sample size, treatments, and quality of the research between the studies. 
Key results 
This analysis suggests, in general, a superiority of combination therapies, including somatostatin‐like medications, in both gastrointestinal and pancreatic NETs. However, in pancreatic NETs, everolimus was the most effective therapy  with the highest certainty of evidence compared to the other treatments. Furthermore, the results indicate that NET therapies have a broad range of risk for adverse events and effects on quality of life. Because disease is often advanced at presentation and treatment is often given with the intent to control and shrink disease, rather than be ultimately curative, treatment adverse events and quality of life are key considerations. 
