Strategies designed to help healthcare professionals to recruit participants to research studies 
Introduction 
Most trials fail to recruit the number of participants they need within the time they had planned to conduct the study. Recruiting potential participants to research studies involves three stages: identifying, approaching and obtaining the consent of potential participants to join a study. Researchers often rely on healthcare staff, such as doctors and nurses, to identify and approach potential participants. This review examines what strategies could be used by researchers to improve recruitment to studies. 
Findings 
We found 11 studies that assessed recruitment strategies used with healthcare staff in search of the literature in January 2015. Five included the total number of participants (7372). There were three main strategies: 
1. Using an alert system, either a computer system or member of staff to check patient records, to alert staff recruiting participants that someone might be suitable for the study (five studies). 
2. Giving additional information about the study to the staff at hospitals or clinics who are recruiting people through visits from the researchers, educational seminars or leaflets (four studies). 
3. Using a designated member of staff whose primary role was to recruit participants (two studies). 
All the studies identified were of quite low quality, so it is difficult to draw firm conclusions from them. Five studies examined the alert system to identify participants who might be suitable for a study. Alert systems showed some promising results but were not unanimous in their findings. The four studies that evaluated the provision of additional information, visits or education to the sites recruiting participants found that none of the tested strategies led to improved recruitment. The most promising strategy appears to be the employment of someone such as a clinical trials officer or research nurse with the specific task of recruiting participants to research studies. The two studies using this strategy showed improvement in recruitment rates but both were at high risk of bias. 
Conclusion 
More research is still needed to evaluate the role of a designated person to recruit to research studies. 
