Ultrasound guidance for injecting local anaesthetics in children to block pain transmission
Background 
A regional blockade involves injecting a local anaesthetic into the spine or around the nerves to block pain transmission. It can be used to replace general anaesthesia or to treat pain after surgery. Finding an effective alternative to traditional painkillers (pills or injections containing morphine derivatives) is particularly important for children, as they might be more likely to suffer adverse effects from opioid painkillers, and also because pain in early life might do long‐term harm (exaggerated response to pain later in life). Traditionally, finding the exact location where the local anaesthetic needs to be injected was done on anatomical landmarks, that is palpation of bones or a pulsatile vessel (artery, using fingers to feel a pulse). Later, an electric needle producing a muscle contraction (nerve stimulator) was advocated as being more precise. Over the past four decades, clinicians have started to use ultrasound to locate nerves. However, ultrasound machines are expensive (USD 22,000 versus USD 1000 for a nerve stimulator). 
We wanted to know if ultrasound guidance can improve the success rate and reduce the incidence of complications of regional blockade in children. These complications may include lasting neurological complications, inadvertent needle entry into a blood vessel, and seizure or cardiac arrest from local anaesthetic excess or from inadvertent injection into a blood vessel. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to March 2018.
Study characteristics 
We included 33 well‐designed studies with a total of 2293 children in which ultrasound guidance was compared with another method of nerve localization (traditional landmarks techniques or nerve stimulator) for regional blockade in children. 
Study funding sources 
Sources of funding included a government organization (two studies), a charitable organization (two studies), and an institutional department (13 studies). Two studies declared that they received industry help (equipment loan). The source of funding was unclear for 14 studies. 
Key results 
Ultrasound guidance for regional blockade in children may decrease the occurrence of failed block. It may also increase duration of the block and reduce pain at one hour after surgery. Ultrasound guidance may decrease the number of needle passes required to perform the block. However, because the vast majority of blocks in children are performed with the child under deep sedation or general anaesthesia, the true value of this finding might be arguable. There were no major complications in the included trials. There may be little or no difference between study groups in risks of minor complications. Altogether, whether or not these findings justify the extra cost of ultrasound guidance should probably also take into account the anaesthesiologist's expertise and local resources. The five ongoing studies may alter the conclusions of the review once published and assessed. 
