Herbal therapy for rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effects of herbal therapy for rheumatoid arthritis (RA). 
The review shows that in people with RA:
‐ Evening primrose oil, borage seed oil, or blackcurrent seed oil (containing gamma‐linolenic acid (GLA)) probably improve pain; may improve function; and probably does not increase adverse events (unwanted side effects). 
‐ Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F may improve some symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis, and higher doses (180 mg ‐ 350 mg daily) may be more effective than lower doses (60 mg daily). There are some adverse events associated with Tripterygium wilfordii Hook F. 
‐ We are uncertain of the effects of other herbal therapies because only single studies were available, or important features of RA, such as changes in the number of swollen and tender joints, were not reported. 
Often we do not have precise information about side effects and complications, particularly for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects associated with Triperygium wilfordii Hook F may include painful periods in women, decreased fertility in men, insufficient urine excretion, and increased rate of infections. Possible side effects associated with GLA sourced from evening primrose oil include headache, nausea, and diarrhoea, and rare complications include allergy and seizures. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what is herbal therapy? 
When you have RA, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis at present, so treatments are used to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move. 
Herbal interventions are defined as any plant preparation (whole, powder, extract, standardised mixture) used for medicinal purposes. Historically, many herbal therapies have been used to treat RA. Like conventional non‐herbal drugs, many herbal therapies are believed to act by blocking the activity of these immune cells and substances and reducing inflammation in the joints, and some people believe they have fewer side effects.  
Best estimate of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis:  
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain):
‐People who took eveing primrose oil, primrose oil, borage seed oil, or blackcurrent seed oil (wih the active ingredient GLA) rated their pain to be 33 points lower (9 to 56 points lower) on a scale of 0 to 100 after 6 months of treatment (33% absolute improvement). 
‐People who took placebo rated their pain to be 19 points lower after treatment.
Physical function (higher score means greater disability):
‐People who took GLA rated their disability 16% better.
‐People who placebo rated their disability 5% better.
