Glue may be a sensible alternative to suture for mesh fixation in Lichtenstein inguinal hernioplasty 
Review question 
We reviewed whether glue can reduce chronic pain after surgery, without increasing the postoperative recurrence rate, compared with sutures for mesh fixation in Lichtenstein inguinal hernia repair. 
Background 
A hernia is a weakness of the abdominal wall and allows escape of soft tissue or internal organs. It usually appears as a reducible lump and might cause discomfort and pain, limit daily activities, and affect quality of life. It can be life threatening if the bowel is ischemic or necrotic. Lichtenstein inguinal hernioplasty, which employs a synthetic mesh prosthesis to bridge the defect, is the standard open tension‐free repair of inguinal hernia. The recurrence rate of the Lichtenstein technique is acceptable. However, postoperative chronic pain is common and difficult to deal with. Suture is the traditional method for fixation of the mesh, but it may cause irritation or nerve compression which in turn leads to postoperative neuropathic pain. Therefore glue, as a non‐traumatic method for mesh fixation, is thought to reduce chronic pain. However, glue fixation might have an effect on the postoperative hernia recurrence rate. 
Investigation 
The Lichtenstein technique was first described in 1986, thus we searched the literature from 1986 to May 2016 for randomised controlled trials comparing glue versus sutures for mesh fixation in Lichtenstein hernia repair. We also considered studies including both primary and recurrent inguinal hernia when the report allowed us to separate the extraction of data on the primary repair. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 12 relevant randomised controlled trials comparing glue versus suture for fixation of the mesh, with a total of 1932 participants. 
Main results 
Glue fixation is superior to suture for the outcomes of chronic pain, duration of operation, haematoma and recovery time to daily activities. 
Glue fixation is not associated with an increased risk of infection, hernia recurrence, seroma (a collection of fluid that builds up under the surface of the skin after surgery), persisting numbness (loss of sensation or feeling), quality of life, and postoperative length of stay. 
