Outpatient treatment for cancer patient with low‐risk febrile neutropaenic event is effective. 
Review question Is outpatient treatment with antibiotics safe and effective for people with cancer who have low neutrophil levels (type of white blood cell) and develop a fever (called febrile neutropaenia), usually as a result of chemotherapy? 
Background Neutrophils (a type of white blood cell) are key to fighting bacterial infections. People treated for cancer often have low neutrophil levels, which is called neutropaenia, most commonly because of chemotherapy treatment. This leaves them susceptible to infection, which can become serious and potentially life‐threatening very quickly. This is called neutropaenic sepsis. For many years, people with cancer who develop a fever whilst they are neutropaenic (called neutropaenic fever) have been given antibiotics to prevent them from developing overwhelming neutropaenic sepsis. Depending of the duration of neutropaenia, as well as type of cancer, age and other symptoms, patients can fall in to two risk groups: high‐ or low risk of developing a serious infection. Recently, treatment with oral antibiotics (medicine given as liquid or tablets by mouth) has been proven to be as effective as intravenous (medicine injected into a vein) treatments. However, it is unclear whether providing treatment in an outpatient setting is as safe as therapy administered in a hospital setting. 
Study characteristics Ten studies (994 participants) provided information for the review. These ten studies compared outpatient antibiotic therapy (491 participants) versus inpatient therapy (503 participants) in people with cancer who developed febrile neutropaenia. Six studies were conducted in adults (628 participants) and four studies were in children (366 participants). These ten trials compared effectiveness in terms of the disappearance of signs of infection (mainly fever) and nine studies assessed the effect on mortality (death). Eight studies recorded the number of treatment days for the fever to resolve. Five studies compared the duration of neutropaenia between out‐ and inpatients. Five studies analysed duration of antibiotics usage and six looked at the duration of hospitalisation.Two studies assessed quality of life for patients. 
