Interventions for treating painful nipples among breastfeeding women
Background 
Although the health benefits of breastfeeding are well established, many women discontinue breastfeeding within the first few weeks after birth. One common reason to discontinue breastfeeding is painful nipples. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group's Trials database for clinical trials assessing methods (interventions) of improving nipple pain among breastfeeding women in September 2014. We also looked at healing and infection of nipples, length of breastfeeding, if infants only received breast milk, and if mothers were happy with treatment for nipple problems and breastfeeding in general. Interventions included drug treatments (against bacteria given by mouth, spray, ointment; against fungal infections), non‐drug treatments (lanolin, petroleum jelly, peppermint oil, glycerine), dressings, nipple protectors (breast shields or shells), light treatment, or applying expressed breast milk. Interventions were compared with each other or usual care (control). 
Key results 
We found four trials of good methodological quality involving 656 women, which evaluated five different interventions including glycerine pads, lanolin with breast shells, lanolin alone, expressed breast milk, and an all‐purpose nipple ointment. All studies included education to position the infant at the breast correctly as part of routine care to both intervention and control groups. 
Currently, there is not enough evidence to recommend any specific type of treatment for painful nipples among breastfeeding women. These results suggest that applying nothing or expressed breast milk may be equally or more beneficial in the short‐term experience of nipple pain than the application of an ointment such as lanolin. One important finding in this review was that regardless of the treatment used, for most women, nipple pain reduced to mild levels approximately seven to 10 days' after giving birth (postpartum). 
