Oestrogen for premenstrual syndrome
Review question 
Oestrogen is widely used to suppress ovulation, mainly as a contraceptive. This is the first systematic review aiming to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of non‐contraceptive oestrogen‐containing preparations (oral, patch, implant and gel) in controlling symptoms of premenstrual syndrome (PMS). 
Background 
PMS is characterised by a range of physical, psychological and behavioural symptoms that are not due to any organic disease, and that occur during the luteal phase (second half) of the menstrual cycle and disappear at the onset of menstruation. It is now thought that the condition is due to complex interactions between ovarian steroids and neurotransmitters. A clinical diagnosis requires that the symptoms are confirmed by prospective recording for at least two menstrual cycles and that they cause substantial distress or impairment to daily life (e.g. work, school, social activities, hobbies, interpersonal relationships). 
Study characteristics 
The review identified 524 potentially relevant articles. Only five randomized controlled trials met our inclusion criteria, and these compared oestrogen with placebo in a total of 305 women who were clinically diagnosed with PMS. 
Key results 
We found very low quality evidence to suggest that oral unopposed oestrogen given in the luteal phase of the menstrual cycle is probably ineffective for controlling the symptoms of PMS and may even make them worse. There was very low quality evidence to support the effectiveness of continuous oestrogen (in the form of transdermal patches or subcutaneous implants) plus progestogen, with a small to moderate effect size. A comparison between 200 microgram and 100 microgram doses of continuous oestrogen was inconclusive with regard to effectiveness but suggested that the lower dose was less likely to cause side effects. Uncertainty remains regarding safety, as the identified studies were too small to provide definite answers. Moreover, none of the included trials addressed adverse effects that might occur beyond the typical trial duration of 2 to 8 months. This suggests the choice of oestrogen dose and mode of administration could be based on an individual woman’s preference and modified according to the effectiveness and tolerability of the chosen regimen. 
