Non‐drug management of breathing problems for children with severe physical and intellectual impairment 
Background For a variety of reasons, some children live with very severe intellectual and physical problems; they are unable to walk or talk and require a lot of care. In this study we refer to them as children with severe global developmental delay (SGDD); this is not a specific diagnosis but is rather an 'umbrella term' used to describe a group of children with similar problems. These children may have weak or stiff muscles and deformities of their skeleton; often they have problems with swallowing, resulting in food or saliva going into their lungs. Frequently they have a poor cough reflex and lack the strength required to expel secretions when they do cough. When we sleep, our breathing becomes shallower; for some children with SGDD whose breathing is already shallow when awake, falling asleep means that they do not breathe sufficiently deeply to take in enough oxygen and breathe out enough carbon dioxide. The consequence of these problems is that their respiratory system becomes weakened; they are more likely to develop chest infections, and relatively minor infections can make them very unwell. This can result in their spending a lot of time in hospital. This affects the quality of life for these children and families and is very expensive. Many types of treatment could help, but no good summary of studies has been prepared to tell healthcare professionals which treatments are best and when they should be used; this is the reason for this review. 
Review question The aim of our review was to discover how effective each type of treatment is for managing breathing problems in children with severe global developmental delay. As so many treatments are available, we decided to look only at treatments that do not involve drugs. 
Study characteristics We carried out a wide database search to look for studies of interventions for the management of breathing problems in children with severe neurological impairment. We found 15 studies of interest, which included a number of different types of treatment. 
Key results The results showed that several different treatments provided potential benefits, and for most interventions no serious adverse effects were reported. However, the quality of the studies was not good enough to inspire confidence in the findings. Night‐time positioning equipment and spinal bracing were shown to have a potentially negative effect in some participants. Although some studies looked at the same type of treatment, they used it in different ways or used different measures to assess effectiveness, so we could not put the results together. 
Quality of the evidence Of the 15 studies included here, only four used the 'gold standard' study design for health interventions. The remainder of the studies used less robust study designs, which limits the strength of the results. Further well‐designed randomised studies including larger numbers of participants are required to guide healthcare professionals to select the most effective treatments. 
This plain‐language summary is current to November 2013.  We updated searches in November 2019 and July 2020 and added six studies to awaiting classification, but these results have not been fully incorporated into the review. 
