Comparing effectiveness of an older antipsychotic (oral fluphenazine) with newer antipsychotics for treating schizophrenia 
Introduction  People with schizophrenia often hear voices or see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). It is a distressing and debilitating illness. The main treatment for schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. Fluphenazine is an older antipsychotic drug first formulated in the 1950s, effective for treating the psychoses of schizophrenia. However fluphenazine can cause some serious side effects, particularly movement disorders, and is known to lower people’s mood. Fluphenazine is inexpensive but the arrival of newer antipsychotic drugs with fewer movement disorder side effects reduced its use and market share. 
Methods  An electronic search of Cochrane Schizophrenia's register of studies was carried out in 2013. Review authors looked for trials that randomised people with schizophrenia to receive either oral fluphenazine or an atypical antipsychotic. Four studies with a total of 202 people with schizophrenia could be included. The trials compared fluphenazine with either amisulpride, risperidone, quetiapine or olanzapine. 
Results  Data showed oral fluphenazine is no better or worse in improving mental state than amisulpride but more people receiving oral fluphenazine did need to take additional anticholinergic medication (drugs used to help relieve a range of symptoms such as involuntary movements of the muscles, high blood pressure and insomnia). 
Data from the trials comparing oral fluphenazine with either risperidone, quetiapine or olanzapine also showed no superiority between the treatment groups for clinical improvement. Only the trial comparing oral fluphenazine with olanzapine provided adverse‐effects data. Again, incidence of akathisia, a movement disorder, was similar between treatment groups. 
Quality of evidence  Evidence from these few trials is poor, of low quality and involves a small number of participants. It does not provide clear overall information about whether oral fluphenazine is better or worse than atypical antipsychotic drugs for treating people with schizophrenia. Data were not available for important outcomes such as such, relapse, hospital admission, satisfaction, costs and quality of life. Adverse‐effects data were poorly reported. Future large‐scale research should report on these important outcomes. 
