Does treating Streptococcal throat infection help improve psoriasis?
Review question 
We wanted to find out how well treatments for infections caused by the Streptococcus bacteria worked, and how safe they were, when compared with no treatment, placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), or each other, in people with acute guttate or chronic plaque psoriasis. 
Background 
Chronic plaque psoriasis is a long‐term condition that causes patches of red, flaky skin, covered with scales (called plaques); it is the most frequent form of psoriasis, and is more common in adults. 
Guttate psoriasis is characterised by smaller lesions, and is more common in children and young people. Some studies have suggested that guttate psoriasis occurs in less than 30% of people with psoriasis. 
The cause of psoriasis is unknown, but Streptococcal infection may trigger guttate psoriasis or flare‐ups of chronic plaque psoriasis. 
Tonsillectomy may prevent or reduce the severity of throat infections, and limit the Streptococcus reservoir. Antibiotics work by destroying the bacteria that appear to trigger psoriasis. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2019.
We included five studies (162 participants); three were conducted in hospital dermatology departments. Participants were 12 to 77 years old (100 males; 62 females). One study was funded by a pharmaceutical company. The severity of the condition ranged from mild to severe. Streptococcus bacteria were found in the throats of 14% of people. 
We classed outcomes measured within eight weeks of the start of treatment as short‐term, and those measured at least one year after the start of treatment as long‐term. The antibiotic trials in guttate psoriasis patients were all short‐term in duration; the antibiotic trial in chronic plaque psoriasis was 48 weeks long. 
Three studies included participants with guttate psoriasis, and assessed the short‐term effects of antibiotics: penicillin (20 participants), or erythromycin compared to no treatment (43 participants), and rifampicin compared to placebo (20 participants). 
Two studies included participants with chronic plaque psoriasis. One study assessed azithromycin (antibiotic) versus vitamin C at 48 weeks (50 participants); one assessed tonsillectomy versus no intervention at eight weeks and 24 months (29 participants). 
Key results 
These results are backed by very low‐quality evidence, so we are not certain of their accuracy. Each result is based on only one study. 
No studies measured our main outcome of interest, the time taken for the skin to be clear or almost clear of lesions, or the risk of relapsing at least once during long‐term follow‐up. 
No side effects were seen when penicillin was compared with no treatment in people with guttate psoriasis. Side effects were not measured for the comparisons of rifampicin versus placebo, or erythromycin versus no treatment. 
In participants with chronic plaque psoriasis, one trial assessed azithromycin versus vitamin C, and 10 participants in the azithromycin group complained of nausea or mild stomach upset. A trial of tonsillectomy versus no treatment reported one case of minor bleeding in the tonsillectomy group. 
Two studies in participants with chronic plaque psoriasis measured the number of participants achieving a 75% reduction on the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75). In one, 18/30 participants in the azithromycin group reached PASI 75 versus none in the vitamin C group. In the other, 3/15 in the tonsillectomy group reached PASI 75 versus none in the no treatment group. The guttate psoriasis trials did not assess this outcome. 
We are uncertain whether the number of participants with guttate psoriasis achieving clear or almost clear skin differs between those given penicillin and those receiving no treatment. Only one participant with chronic plaque psoriasis achieved almost clear skin in the tonsillectomy group compared to none in the no treatment group. The other three trials did not measure this outcome. 
Quality of the evidence 
Many of our main outcomes were not assessed. Those that were assessed were based on very low‐quality evidence, meaning we are not sure of their accuracy. The studies were very small, and had a high risk of bias because participants and trial assessors were aware of treatment allocation. More studies are needed to see if antibiotic treatment of Streptococcal infection shortens the duration of acute guttate psoriasis, stopping it from turning into a long‐term condition (chronic plaque psoriasis). 
