Anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor for macular oedema secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion 
What is the aim of this review?The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) works for the treatment of macular oedema (MO) secondary to branch retinal vein occlusion (BRVO). Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found eight studies. 
Key messages The review shows that people with MO due to BRVO benefit from treatment with anti‐VEGF with an increased chance of improved vision at six and 12 months when compared with no treatment, laser or steroid injection. 
What was studied in the review?There are small blood vessels at the back of the eye (retina) known as arteries (when blood comes into the eye) and veins (when blood leaves the eye). BRVO occurs when a vein that drains part of the retina becomes blocked. This can lead to swelling (oedema) at the back of eye which may result in loss of vision, particularly if it occurs at the centre of the retina (macula). 
One treatment option for MO due to BRVO is anti‐VEGF injections. VEGF is a molecule found in the back of the eye associated with the inflammation. Anti‐VEGF blocks the action of VEGF, which can help to reduce the amount of damage. Treating MO due to BRVO is important as it can prevent sight loss occurring. 
The most commonly used anti‐VEGF drugs are:
∙ ranibizumab (Lucentis)∙ aflibercept (Eylea)∙ bevacizumab (Avastin) 
What are the main results of the review? Cochrane researchers found eight relevant studies. These studies took place in Europe, North America, Eastern Mediterranean region and East Asia. 
One study compared anti‐VEGF to no treatment (sham injection); three studies compared anti‐VEGF to another type of treatment (laser); and four studies compared anti‐VEGF to steroids. The findings were as follows. 
∙ People treated with anti‐VEGF were more likely to have improved vision and less swelling at the back of the eye at six months after treatment compared to people who were not treated with anti‐VEGF or who were treated with laser or steroids (moderate‐certainty evidence). 
∙ In general, there was only very low‐certainty evidence on adverse events (harms) comparing anti‐VEGF treatment to these other treatments. There were no cases of eye infection (endophthalmitis). There was evidence that people treated with steroids (injected into the eye) were more likely to develop cataract or raised pressure in the eye compared with anti‐VEGF. 
