The purpose of this systematic review was to examine the effectiveness and side effects of biofeedback therapy used for the treatment of chronic constipation in adults who are unable to relax the muscles which control bowel movements. This review identified 17 eligible studies that included a total of 931 participants. The studies either compared the effectiveness of different types of biofeedback to one another, or biofeedback to a sham biofeedback (a fake biofeedback treatment) or biofeedback to standard treatment consisting of diet, exercise and laxatives. There is some evidence that biofeedback is superior to treatment with oral diazepam (a sedative known as Valium), sham biofeedback and laxatives. One study of 60 participants found biofeedback with computer equipment to be superior to oral diazepam (a sedative drug that is not usually used to treat constipation). Another study of 77 participants suggests that biofeedback is superior to sham biofeedback or standard therapy consisting of diet, exercise and laxatives. Another study with 109 participants also suggested that biofeedback with computer equipment is superior to conventional treatment with laxatives and dietary and lifestyle advice. Some surgical procedures (partial division of puborectalis and stapled transanal rectal resection) were reported to be superior to biofeedback. However, there was a high risk of side effects in the surgical treatment groups including wound infection, faecal incontinence, pain, and bleeding that required further surgery. One other study of 60 participants did not find a difference in effectiveness between surgery (posterior myomectomy of internal anal sphincter and puborectalis) and biofeedback treatment. Botulinum toxin‐A injection may have short term benefits over biofeedback, but the benefit does not last. No adverse events were reported for biofeedback, although this was not specifically reported in the majority of studies. The results of this review need to be interpreted with caution as they are based on small numbers of patients and the overall quality of the evidence from the studies was rated as low or very low due to lack of precision of the results and the low methodological quality of the studies. Thus no firm conclusions can be made regarding the effectiveness and potential side effects of biofeedback treatment for patients with chronic constipation who are unable to relax the muscles which control bowel movements. Further larger trials are needed to provide better evidence. 