Intensive glucose control versus conventional glucose control for type 1 diabetes mellitus 
Review question 
The primary objective of this review was to assess the positive and negative outcomes of tighter blood glucose control ('intensive' glucose control) compared to less intense treatment targets ('conventional' glucose control) in individuals with type 1 diabetes. 
Background 
Treatment of type 1 diabetes consists of life‐long blood sugar control through insulin replacement. It is generally agreed that achieving 'good' blood sugar control while avoiding episodes of very low blood sugars (severe hypoglycaemia) should be the primary treatment goal for individuals with type 1 diabetes. However, clinical guidelines differ regarding their recommended blood glucose targets. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 12 relevant studies, which included a total of 2230 participants. The participant populations varied widely across studies regarding age, disease duration, and existing diabetes complications. The mean follow‐up duration across studies varied between one and 6.5 years. The majority of the studies were carried out in the 1980s and all studies took place in Europe or North America. 
Key results 
We found that intensive glucose control was highly effective in reducing the risk of developing microvascular diabetes complications, such as retinopathy (eye disease), nephropathy kidney disease), and neuropathy (nerve disease). For developing retinopathy, 63 per 1000 people with intensive glucose control compared to 232 per 1000 people with conventional glucose control experienced this diabetes complication. For developing nephropathy, 159 per 1000 people with intensive glucose control compared to 284 per 1000 people with conventional glucose control experienced this diabetes complication. For developing neuropathy, 49 per 1000 people with intensive glucose control compared to 139 per 1000 people with conventional glucose control experienced this diabetes complication. 
A weaker effect was found on the progression of retinopathy, while we could not find clear evidence of benefit of tight blood sugar control on the progression of nephropathy once participants had developed microalbuminuria (the kidney leaking small amounts of the protein albumin into the urine); no adequate data were available regarding the progression of neuropathy. 
