Self‐management for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Review questionWe looked at the current evidence on the effects of self‐management interventions for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). In particular, we assessed their effectiveness on health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and hospital admissions related to COPD. We also wanted to assess whether self‐management interventions are safe by evaluating the number of deaths. 
BackgroundCOPD is a common and long‐term lung condition that slowly worsens over the years, and causes symptoms such as breathlessness, coughing, wheezing and increased sputum (mucus) production. This leads to loss of well‐being (also known as reduction in HRQoL) in people with COPD. Self‐management interventions encourage people to develop the skills and behaviours they need to successfully manage their disease, and the emotional and practical issues that may go along with it. In this update, we reviewed the current evidence on the effects of self‐management on HRQoL, hospital admissions related to COPD, deaths from any cause and related to COPD, as well as other health outcomes. 
Search dateWe searched for studies up until January 2020. 
Study characteristicsWe included 27 studies, involving 6008 participants, that evaluated the effectiveness and safety of COPD self‐management interventions. The average age of the participants ranged between 57 and 74 years. Between 33% to 98% of the participants in the studies were male. Studies were conducted on four different continents (15 in Europe, eight in North America, one in Asia, and four in Oceania; with one study conducted in both Europe and Oceania). All studies had control groups of participants who received usual care – that is, care typical for people with COPD. The studies lasted between two‐and‐a‐half to 24 months. 
Key resultsSelf‐management interventions improved HRQoL in people with COPD compared to usual care, but this did not reach a clinically meaningful improvement. The number of participants with at least one hospital admission related to COPD was reduced amongst those who participated in a self‐management intervention. We found no difference in number of deaths between self‐management and usual care groups, which strengthens the view that COPD self‐management interventions are unlikely to cause harm. We have been strict about only including studies that met our definition of a COPD self‐management intervention. Despite this, the studies were still quite different from one another in terms of the intervention components used, duration of the self‐management intervention and the study populations. It should be noted, that heterogeneity in future interventions will be inevitable as individual tailoring of self‐management interventions is desirable; it will never be a 'one size fits all' intervention. 
