Pre‐ and postsurgical medical therapy for endometriosis surgery
Review question 
What are the effects of medical hormonal suppression therapies administered before or after (or both) surgical treatment of endometriosis compared to surgery alone or medical therapy before or after (or both) surgery? 
Background 
In endometriosis, tissue like the lining of the womb starts to grow in other places, such as the ovaries and fallopian tubes. It affects 10% to 15% of reproductive‐age women, and may cause pain in the lower tummy (pelvic pain) or back (which usually worsen during a woman's periods), painful sexual intercourse, and difficulty becoming pregnant. 
Treatment to lower the levels of reproductive hormones (called medical hormonal suppression therapy) is common to reduce the size of endometrial tissue along with surgery to cut it away. Medical therapy can reduce pain or its reappearance, reduce disease recurrence (the chance of it coming back), and improve pregnancy rate. Potential benefits of medication may depend on whether it is given before or after surgery for endometriosis, but evidence is not clear. 
Study characteristics 
We found 25 randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 3378 women who underwent surgery with or without medical therapy. We used the term "surgery alone" to refer to placebo or no medical therapy. The evidence is current to November 2019. 
Key results 
Medical therapy showed variable effects on pain, reappearance of pain or disease, and pregnancy rate when used before or after surgery for endometriosis. However, for outcomes disease recurrence and pregnancy, it may be most effective after surgery versus surgery alone compared to other comparisons reviewed. 
Medical therapy before surgery compared with placebo or no medical therapy 
Very weak evidence suggests that if pelvic pain recurrence at 12 months or less is 24% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 17% and 40%. 
Very weak evidence suggests that if disease recurrence at 12 months or less is 45% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 39% and 65%. 
Very weak evidence suggests that if pregnancy rate is 58% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 53% and 79%. 
Medical therapy after surgery compared with placebo or no medical therapy 
Weak evidence suggests that if pain recurrence at 12 months or less is 26% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy after surgery would be between 13% and 24%. 
Weak evidence suggests that if disease recurrence at 12 months or less is 17% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy after surgery would be between 3% and 9%. 
Very weak evidence suggests that if disease recurrence at 12 months or less (different classification used) is 45% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy after surgery would be between 30% and 52%. 
Moderate‐quality evidence suggests that if pregnancy rate is 34% among women having surgery alone, the chance with medical therapy after surgery would be between 35% and 48%. 
Medical therapy before surgery compared with medical therapy after surgery 
Weak evidence suggests that if pelvic pain recurrence at 12 months or less is 20% among women having medical therapy after surgery, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 19% and 41%. 
Very weak evidence suggests that if disease recurrence at 12 months or less is 40% among women having medical therapy after surgery, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 39% and 66%. 
Very weak evidence suggests that if pregnancy rate is 60% among women having medical therapy after surgery, the chance with medical therapy before surgery would be between 54% and 78%. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence was of very low to moderate quality.
