Rinse‐free hand wash for reducing absenteeism among preschool and school children
Background 
Absenteeism from schooling is costly to parents, schools and governments and sustained absence is detrimental to student learning. Illness‐related absenteeism is a significant contributor to absenteeism from school, but can also result in parents missing work due to catching the illness themselves or having to stay home to care for their children. There are several strategies currently used to reduce illness‐related absenteeism, a common method is the implementation of appropriate hand hygiene practices. However, hand hygiene using soap and water is not always practical, and alternatives may prove to be more effective in reducing the overall rate of illness‐related absenteeism. One such alternative is the use of rinse‐free hand wash. 
Review question 
This review was designed to investigate if the use of rinse‐free hand wash can reduce the number of days spent absent from school in preschool and school children compared to no rinse‐free hand wash usage. 
Study characteristics 
The searches returned 19 relevant studies with a total of 30,747 participants. Eight studies were conducted in the USA, two were conducted in Spain, and one each in China, Colombia, Finland, France, Kenya, Bangladesh, New Zealand, Sweden, and Thailand. Six studies were conducted in preschools or day‐care centres (children aged from birth to < five years), with the remaining 13 conducted in elementary or primary schools (children aged five to14 years). These studies were quite varied in the composition and application of the rinse‐free hand washing program. Only two studies included information on the primary outcome (absenteeism due to any reason), whilst for absenteeism for any illness there were six studies that provided information. The evidence presented is up to date to February 2020. 
Key results 
The application of, and adherence to a rinse‐free hand wash, hand hygiene program may be associated with small, but potentially beneficial effects in reducing the number of days students were absent from school due to illness compared to no rinse‐free hand wash, hygiene program. However rinse‐free hand washing may be no different to controls at reducing absenteeism for any reason. There may also be no difference in the number of skin irritations between students who received the rinse‐free hand wash compared to those who used soap and water. Most students and teachers responded favorably to using rinse‐free hand wash and complied relatively well with its use. 
