Prophylactic interventions after delivery of placenta for reducing bleeding during the postnatal period 
Haemorrhage following childbirth (postpartum haemorrhage) is a major cause of maternal death and health problems in resource‐poor settings in both low‐ and high‐income countries. Postpartum haemorrhage is defined as blood loss from the genital tract of more than 500 mL, generally occurring within the first 24 hours after delivering the placenta and occasionally between 24 hours and six to 12 weeks. Possible causes are the uterus (womb) failing to contract after delivery (uterine atony), a retained placenta, inverted or ruptured uterus, and cervical, vaginal, or perineal lacerations. To address these issues, the joint policy statements between the International Confederation of Midwives, the International Federation of Gynecology and Obstetrics, and the World Health Organization recommend 'active management of third stage of labour', which includes the administration of a uterotonic drug (intravenous oxytocin), just before or just after delivery in order to help the uterine muscles to contract. The use of oral uterotonic drugs such as methylergometrine for the prevention of postpartum haemorrhage after delivery of the placenta is not recommended in the joint policy statements. Yet orally delivered uterotonic drugs, such as ergot alkaloids (including methylergometrine), herbal therapies, or homeopathic remedies are easy‐to‐administer agents that may be considered as possible alternatives after delivery of the placenta in developing countries, as in Japan. We set out to determine whether such agents are effective in preventing haemorrhage after childbirth. We found a total of five randomised clinical trials (involving 1466 women). In three of the trials (involving 1268 women), oral methylergometrine was compared with placebo (two trials) or the Japanese traditional herbal medicine Kyuki‐chouketsu‐in (one trial). The other two trials (involving 198 women) did not report information on relevant outcomes of interest for this review. Overall, there was no clear evidence that prophylactic oral methylergometrine was effective in reducing haemorrhage after childbirth. The trials were not of good quality and adverse events were not well‐reported. We did not find any completed trials looking at the effectiveness of homeopathic remedies in reducing haemorrhage after childbirth. The effectiveness of such remedies warrants further investigation. 
