Direct‐acting antivirals for chronic hepatitis C
Background  Millions of people worldwide suffer from hepatitis C, which can lead to severe liver disease, liver cancer, and death. Numerous previous interferon‐based interventions have been used for hepatitis C, but none of these interventions have proven effective on patient‐centred outcomes and their use was associated with serious side‐effects. DAAs are relatively new but expensive interventions for hepatitis C, and preliminary results have shown that DAAs seem to eradicate hepatitis C virus from the blood (sustained virological response) much more frequently. In addition, these agents do appear to create much less serious adverse‐effects. In this Cochrane Review, we assessed the evidence on the clinical effects of DAAs for hepatitis C. 
Study characteristics  We included 138 randomised clinical trials. All included trials were at high risk of bias. The 138 trials used 51 different DAAs. Of these, 84 trials assessed DAAs on the market or under development; 57 trials were on DAAs withdrawn from development or the market. Trials were conducted from 2004 to 2016. The trials were from all over the world including 34 different countries. We included 17 trials where all the participants had previously been treated for hepatitis C (treatment‐experienced) before being included in the trial. There were 95 trials that included only participants who had not been previously treated for hepatitis C (treatment‐naive). The intervention periods ranged from one day to 48 weeks with an average of 14 weeks. The combined intervention period and follow‐up period ranged from one day to 120 weeks with an average of 34 weeks. 
Key results  We could not reliably determine the effect of DAAs on hepatitis C‐related morbidity or death from any cause. There were no data on hepatitis C‐related morbidity and very few deaths occurred over the course of the trials (15 deaths/2377 direct‐acting antiviral participants (0.63%) versus 1 death/617 control participants (0.16%), very low quality evidence). Based on very low quality evidence, 5.2% people treated with DAAs had one or more serious adverse events versus 5.6% participants who were untreated during the observation period. When analysed separately, simeprevir was the only direct‐acting antiviral that showed evidence of a beneficial effect when assessing risk of a serious adverse event. Our analyses, however, showed that the validity of this result is questionable and that 'play of chance' might be the cause for the difference. There was not enough information to determine if there was any effect of DAAs on other clinically relevant outcomes. Our results confirm that DAAs seem to reduce the number of people who have the hepatitis C virus in their blood from 54.1% in untreated people to 23.8% in those who were treated. Because the loss of detectable hepatitis C virus in the blood stream is only a blood test, the studies could not tell what this result means in the long term. 
Quality of the evidence  Due to several limitations (e.g. lack of blinding, lack of relevant data, missing data, no published protocol) we assessed the quality of the evidence in this review as very low or low quality. First, all trials and outcome results were at high risk of bias, which means that our results presumably overestimate the beneficial effects of DAAs and underestimate any potential harmful effects. Second, there were limited data on most of our clinical outcomes, that is, there were only relevant clinical data for meta‐analyses on all‐cause mortality and serious adverse events, and for these, data were sparse. There are no long‐term trials that have assessed whether or not DAA treatment improves morbidity or mortality. 
