Eculizumab for treating patients with paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria
Review question  We reviewed the evidence about the effects of eculizumab for treating patients with paroxsymal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. 
Background  Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria is a disorder of the hematopoietic stem cells (a cell that can self renew and differentiate into one or more cell types). It is characterized by episodes of intravascular hemolysis (destruction of red blood cells), and chronic hemolytic anemia. The intravascular destruction of red blood cells involves clinical findings in gastrointestinal, cardiovascular, pulmonary, cerebral, and urogenital systems, as well as clotting disorders.  The treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria has been largely empirical and symptomatic, with packed red blood cell transfusions, anticoagulation, and supplementation with folic acid or iron. Many different pharmacological interventions that are used for treating this medical disorder are not standardized. Eculizumab is a newly available biological agent for preventing hemolytic anemia and severe clotting episodes. 
Study characteristics  We identified one study that included a limited number of patients comparing eculizumab with placebo. The study was published in 2006, and was conducted in the US, Canada, Europe, and Australia with 26 weeks of follow‐up. 
Key results  No patients died during the performance of this single study. The study showed a moderate improvement in the quality of life in patients treated with eculizumab. In addition, eculizumab reduced fatigue and the number of patients that withdrew from the study for any reason. Eculizumab showed a higher proportion of patients with transfusion independence. There was no difference between eculizumab and placebo in terms of adverse events, probably due to the low rate of events observed during the study. The trial did not assess other relevant outcomes such as overall survival, transformation to myelodysplastic syndrome and acute myelogenous leukemia, or development or recurrence of aplastic anemia on treatment. 
Quality of evidence  The confidence in the results is moderate to low. The study had limitations in its design and execution, and was sponsored by the manufacturer of the drug that was assessed. Moreover, the limited number of patients included in the study led to imprecise results. Larger studies should provide more information about the effect of eculizumab in patients with paroxsymal nocturnal hemoglobinuria. 
This plain language summary is current as of May 2014.
