Early versus delayed feeding for reducing complications after gynaecologic surgery
Review Question 
What are the risks and benefits of eating food early, versus delaying food for at least 24 hours after abdominal gynaecologic surgery? 
Background 
Physicians often delay giving food and drink to women after abdominal gynaecologic surgery (uterine fibroids, endometriosis, ovarian cysts, uterine and ovarian cancer) until bowel function recommences (typically 24 hours after surgery). This is to reduce the risk of complications such as vomiting, gastrointestinal disruptions and wound rupturing or leakage. However, it has been suggested that some women may recover more quickly if food is introduced earlier. We reviewed evidence from randomised controlled trials of early and delayed feeding after abdominal gynaecologic surgery. 
Study Characteristics 
We assessed evidence on the following outcomes:
1. Nausea, vomiting, cramping abdominal pain, bloating, abdominal distension, wound complication, deep venous thrombosis, urinary tract infection, pneumonia. 
2. Time to first: bowel sound, gas, stool, start of regular diet.
3. Length of hospital stay
Early feeding was defined as having fluids or food within 24 hours of surgery. Delayed feeding was defined as having fluids or food 24 hours after surgery, and only if there are bowel sounds, passage of gas or stool, and a feeling of hunger. 
The evidence is current to April 2014
Key Results 
We included five published studies of 631 women, mainly with gynaecologic cancer.
Recovery of bowel function was faster in those with early feeding. There was no difference in rates of nausea or vomiting, abdominal distension, need for a postoperative nasogastric tube or time to first bowel movement, but early feeding was associated with a shorter time to bowel sounds and onset of gas. The early feeding group resumed a solid diet 1½ days sooner than those having delayed feeding and the hospital stay was one day shorter. Also, the early feeding group were more satisfied with the feeding schedule, although only one study reported this. 
Early feeding appeared safe, without increased postoperative complications and with fewer infectious complications overall. 
Quality of the Evidence 
Most of the evidence was moderate quality. The main limitation was lack of blinding, which could influence the findings for subjective outcomes such as self‐reported symptoms, hospital stay, patients' satisfaction and quality of life. 
Conclusions 
The evidence suggests that eating and drinking on the first day after abdominal gynaecologic surgery is safe and could reduce the length of hospital stay. 
