Surgical versus nonsurgical interventions for flail chest (ribs with more than one fracture) 
Background 
Flail chest is a medical term describing multiple rib fractures, when ribs are broken or dislocated in more than one place and are no longer completely connected to the other rib bones. When a person injured in this way breathes, the broken segment may move in a different way compared to the rest of the chest wall. Flail chest can cause a person to have difficulty breathing, in which case they may be given mechanical ventilation (machine‐assisted breathing). Surgery is sometimes performed in order to reconnect the broken ribs. 
The authors of this review aimed to evaluate the effects and safety of surgery compared with no surgery for people with flail chest. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for studies comparing surgical treatment with nonsurgical treatment in adults or children with flail chest. 
Key results 
We included three studies in this review, which involved 123 people. In these studies, people with flail chest were randomly allocated into the surgery or no surgery study groups. 
The results show that surgery to repair the broken ribs reduces pneumonia, chest deformity, tracheostomy, duration of mechanical ventilation and length of ICU stay. There was no difference in deaths between people treated with surgery or no surgery. Since only six people died across the three studies, due to a variety of causes, more research is needed in order to know for certain which treatment is better for reducing deaths. 
These three small studies have shown that surgical treatment is preferable to nonsurgical treatment in reducing pneumonia, chest deformity, tracheostomy, mechanical ventilation and length of stay in the ICU. More research is needed in order to know which treatment is better for reducing deaths. Three more studies are being undertaken by researchers in the USA and Canada at the moment, and the results will be incorporated into the review in the future. 
