How does using technology to deliver pulmonary rehabilitation (PR) compare to centre‐based PR, or no PR in people with chronic lung disease? 
Background 
For people with chronic lung conditions, pulmonary rehabilitation is proven to improve physical functioning and general well‐being, and to reduce symptoms, particularly breathlessness. Pulmonary rehabilitation is a program of exercise training and education that is traditionally offered as an in‐person program at a healthcare facility such as a hospital, where people attend program appointments but are not hospitalised overnight. To make it easier for more people to access pulmonary rehabilitation, new ways of delivering programs using technology have been investigated. Pulmonary rehabilitation delivered using technology is known as telerehabilitation. Telerehabilitation models can include (but are not limited to) talking with a health professional and/or other patients on the telephone, using a website or mobile application, or via video‐conferencing. In some circumstances, undertaking telerehabilitation may require patients to have access to their own device (e.g. telephone, smart phone, tablet or computer) in order to participate. 
Study characteristics 
This review included 15 studies involving 1904 people with chronic lung disease, the majority (99%) of whom had chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). The studies described a variety of different ways to use technology to deliver pulmonary rehabilitation including over the telephone, using mobile phone applications, via video‐conferencing in a virtual group and through the use of websites. The studies of telerehabilitation were collectively compared to traditional in‐person PR, or to no rehabilitation. The variety of technology used, as well as differing levels of support from health professionals in the different studies, makes it difficult to determine if there is one best type of technology, amount of assistance or place to which to deliver a telerehabilitation program. 
Key results 
Across multiple studies using different types of technology to deliver pulmonary rehabilitation, telerehabilitation probably produces similar results to the traditional in‐person outpatient pulmonary rehabilitation programs. Telerehabilitation may help people walk further when compared to no rehabilitation, but we have low certainty in these results. People were more likely to finish a full program of telerehabilitation compared to traditional pulmonary rehabilitation (93% compared to 70% completion). Very few of the studies followed people up after the intervention was finished, so it is difficult to say what the long‐term effect is of telerehabilitation. 
