Assistive technology (electronic aids) for children and young people with low vision
Review question  To assess the effect of electronic aids on reading, educational outcomes and quality of life in children and young people with low vision, also called 'being partially sighted' or 'having a sight impairment'. 
Background  New technologies that are widely available to young people, such as mobile phones and portable computers, often have accessibility features for users with visual or other impairments. Families and teachers have observed that children and young people use the magnifier functions to enlarge text or pictures, and also often use these devices to find information more independently. Electronic devices also seem more socially acceptable to children and young people, who often fear to 'stand out' from their peers when using bulky optical aids. 
Research is needed to find out whether children and young people with low vision really can use these 'assistive technologies' successfully at school and at home, and whether these technologies improve their participation in education. Electronic aids should allow the young person to read more independently, faster and more accurately than without aids, and it should be easy to take the devices from one classroom to the next. How much an electronic technology is used on a daily basis is also a good indicator of how well it works for the young person. 
This Cochrane Review aims to assess the effect of assistive technologies on reading, educational outcomes and quality of life in children and young people with low vision. We searched the published literature and registers of current clinical trials. We did not identify any high‐quality research studies in this subject area. Possible reasons are that these technologies are still new, and also that traditionally low‐vision research was carried out as 'before/after' studies, not as trials where participants are allocated to treatments on a random basis, which is the best way of making sure that any observed effects can be attributed to treatment, rather than other factors. 
Worldwide there are an estimated three million children and young people with low vision. Families and healthcare and education providers need high‐quality evidence to inform the choice of technology for a child or young person with low vision. Future research should measure functional outcomes, such as reading accuracy, comprehension and speed, as well as the impact of assistive technologies on independent learning and quality of life, and outcomes relevant to families and teachers. 
Search date  The evidence is up to date to October 2014. 
