Risedronate for preventing fractures caused by osteoporosis in postmenopausal women
This summary of a Cochrane Review presents what we know from the evidence up to 24 March 2021 about the effect of risedronate for preventing fractures (broken bones) caused by osteoporosis. 
What is osteoporosis and what is risedronate? Bone is a living, growing part of your body. Throughout your lifetime, new bone cells grow and old bone cells break down to make room for the new, stronger bone. When you have osteoporosis, the old bone breaks down faster than the new bone can replace it. As this happens, the bones lose minerals (such as calcium). This makes bones weaker and more likely to break even after a minor injury, like a little bump or fall. Women who have gone through menopause are more likely to get osteoporosis than other people. 
Risedronate belongs to the class of drugs called bisphosphonates. It is a type of medication that slows down the cells that break down the old bone. 
In postmenopausal women whose bone density is closer to normal or who may not yet have had a fracture in the bones of their spine therefore putting them at lower risk for fractures: 
‐ there is insufficient evidence to tell us if risedronate leads to any reduction in the number of women sustaining bone fractures; 
‐ based on limited data there is no evidence of an increase in adverse events for postmenopausal women at lower risk for fractures. 
In postmenopausal women who have already been diagnosed with osteoporosis (who have low bone density, or who have already had a fracture in the bones of their spine) putting them at higher risk for fractures, risedronate: 
‐ probably prevents fractures in the bones of the hip and in bones other than in the spine; 
‐ may not lead to any difference in preventing wrist fractures;
‐ does not have enough evidence to show if it may prevent fractures in the bones of the spine suggested by clinical signs and symptoms; 
‐ might make little or no difference in adverse events for postmenopausal women at higher risk for fractures. 
Best estimate of what happens to postmenopausal women at lower risk for fractures who take risedronate or placebo: 
‐ for spine fractures suggested by clinical signs and symptoms and hip fractures, it was not possible to calculate the effect because none of these fractures were reported in any of the studies; 
‐ compared to placebo, there is not enough information to tell if risedronate prevents fractures in wrist and bones other than in the spine.  
Best estimate of what happens to postmenopausal women at higher risk for fractures who take risedronate or placebo: 
Fractures of the spine suggested by clinical signs and symptoms were not reported in any of the studies. 
Fractures in bones other than the spine:
‐ 10 out of 100 women had a fracture when taking a placebo;
‐ 8 out of 100 women had a fracture when taking risedronate;
Fractures of the hip
‐ 3 out of 100 women had a fracture when taking a placebo;
‐ 2 out of 100 women had a fracture when taking risedronate.
 Fractures of the wrist:
‐ there is not enough information to tell if risedronate prevents wrist fractures.
