Air versus saline in the loss of resistance technique for identification of the epidural space 
Review question 
Which technique, air or saline, is more efficacious and safe in reducing complications during the loss of resistance technique (sudden loss of pressure on the plunger of the syringe, making the plunger slide smoothly) for identification of the epidural space, and what guidance can be provided to clinicians in their clinical practice? (The epidural space surrounds the spinal cord and its covering layers, through which the spinal nerves pass as they connect to other nerves leading to and from all parts of the body.) 
Background 
A survey of anaesthesiologists showed that 53% of those who replied used loss of resistance technique (LOR) with saline, 37% used LOR with air and 6% LOR with both air and saline; 3% used a different technique with or without one of the above LOR approaches. The methods used for identification of the epidural space are important for good quality of anaesthesia and for avoidance of complications such as epidural haematoma (i.e. accumulation of blood between the skull and the dura mater) and occasional low back pain. 
Study characteristics 
Adults (18 years of age and older) undergoing surgical procedures, pregnant women in obstetrical labour and patients receiving postoperative pain relief. The evidence is current to September 2013. We found seven studies with a total of 852 participants. The maximum time that a participant was followed by the doctor was 24 hours after giving birth. The quality of the included studies was considered reasonable. 
Key results 
The following results were examined: inability to locate the epidural space; accidental catheter placement (mis‐insertion of the catheter); combined spinal epidural failure (cases of failed regional anaesthetic technique, which combines the benefits of spinal and epidural anaesthesia); unblocked segments (patchy block); and pain. We found no convincing evidence that results differed when air or saline was used. 
Quality of the evidence 
Because conducted studies were only reasonably well conducted (results very similar across studies; minor issues with study design; and not enough data), we ranked the overall quality of the evidence as low. The applicability of findings might be compromised, as most of the results described in this review were obtained from parturient patients. 
