Palliative care for people with advanced dementia
Review question 
In this research, we wanted to see if palliative care helps people with advanced dementia or helps their family or carers. We also wanted to describe how researchers tried to measure the effect of palliative care. 
Background 
People with dementia experience a gradual decline in their mental abilities and their ability to take care of themselves. The decline occurs over an extended period, so it is often difficult to identify the final, terminal phase of the disease. During the advanced stage of dementia, people are unable to communicate verbally, are completely dependent on others, have difficulty swallowing and often experience double incontinence. People with advanced dementia often become confined to a chair or bed and are at increased risk of infections, such as pneumonia. 
Palliative care is a particular way of caring for people who have diseases that cannot be cured. The main aims of palliative care are to reduce pain and to maintain the best possible quality of life as death approaches. Palliative care is used a lot with people with cancer but is not used much for people with advanced dementia. 
Study characteristics 
We examined the research published up to October 2020. We found nine suitable studies that involved 2122 people. The studies came from the USA, Canada, the UK and Europe. Two studies were carried out in hospitals and seven in nursing homes or long‐term care facilities. 
Key results 
Six studies tested changes to the way care for people with advanced dementia is organised and delivered. Five studies found that these changes may increase comfort in dying, but problems with study design and differences in outcome between studies make this result very uncertain, so it is possible that overall they may make little or no difference. Changes to care organisation and delivery may also mean that people with advanced dementia are more likely to have a plan in place for their care, but this result came from only one study, and again we are very uncertain about it. Making changes to how care is organised and delivered probably has no effect on the use of non‐palliative approaches to care and may have little or no effect on whether discussions take place between people with dementia, their family caregiver, and their doctors and nurses on the nature and type of palliative care they would like to receive. 
Two studies found that helping the person with dementia and their family to plan ahead probably makes it more likely that the person with dementia has a written document giving instructions on the types of treatments they want to receive (an advance care plan), and that they have spoken to their doctors and nurses about what they would like from their care. One of these studies also found that advance planning may mean that there is slightly more agreement between what the doctors and nurses believe are the care goals and what the person with dementia believes. However, based on one study, planning may not impact on how well family caregivers feel the person with dementia’s symptoms are managed. 
