Doxycycline for osteoarthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of doxycycline on osteoarthritis. After searching for all relevant studies, they found two studies with 663 people. 
The review shows that in people with osteoarthritis: 
‐ doxycycline will not result in clinically important improvement of joint pain or physical function, while the small benefit in terms of joint space narrowing is of questionable clinical relevance; 
‐ doxycycline probably causes side effects. We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. 
What is osteoarthritis and what is doxycycline? 
Osteoarthritis is a disease of the joints, such as your knee or hip. When the joint loses cartilage, the bone grows to try and repair the damage. However, instead of making things better the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can become misshapen and make the joint painful and unstable. This can affect your physical function or ability to use your knee. 
It has been claimed that doxycycline, a type of antibiotic, might stop the process of damage to the joints. It is taken in pill form. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with osteoarthritis who take doxycycline: 
Pain 
‐ The effect of doxycycline in pain symptoms is not clinically important.
‐ People who took doxycycline rated improvement in their pain to be about 1.9 on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain) after 18 months. 
‐ People who took a placebo rated improvement in their pain to be about 1.8 on a scale of 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain) after 18 months. 
Another way of saying this is:
‐ 33 people out of 100 who use doxycycline respond to treatment (33%).
‐ 31 people out of 100 who use placebo respond to treatment (31%).
‐ two more people respond to treatment with doxycycline than with placebo (difference of 2%). 
 Physical function 
‐ The effect of doxycycline in physical function is not clinically important.
‐ People who took doxycycline rated improvement in their physical function to be about 1.4 on a scale of 0 (no disability) to 10 (extreme disability) after 18 months. 
‐ People who took a placebo rated improvement in their physical function to be about 1.2 on a scale of 0 (no disability) to 10 (extreme disability) after 18 months. 
