Recombinant (non‐human) factor VIIa clotting factor concentrates versus plasma concentrates for acute bleeds in people with haemophilia and inhibitors 
Review question 
We wanted to find evidence on the effectiveness of recombinant factor VIIa (containing no human proteins) as compared to concentrates derived from plasma for treating acute bleeding episodes in people with haemophilia with inhibitors. 
Background 
Haemophilia is an inherited bleeding disorder caused by a lack of a clotting factor and is characterised by bleeding into the joints. It is treated by injecting a drug containing the missing clotting factor into veins. In some individuals with haemophilia, this factor is seen by the body as a foreign protein when it is injected and the body produces an antibody (inhibitor) that destroys the factor. In this way these people become resistant to treatment. Once someone with haemophilia develops an inhibitor, they are treated to remove the antibody (immunotolerance induction) and for acute bleeding episodes. Treatment for bleeding episodes is with one of two available bypassing agents, recombinant activated factor VIIa (Novoseven®) or human activated prothrombin complex concentrate (FEIBA®). It is not known if one of these products is better than the other. We searched for trials comparing the effectiveness (time until bleeding stops, effect on joint motion, need for re‐treatment) and safety of Novoseven® and FEIBA® in people with haemophilia with inhibitors during episodes of acute bleeding. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 23 September 2015.
Study characteristics 
The review included two trials with 69 people (aged one to 55 years) with severe haemophilia with inhibitors. Both trials compared recombinant factor VIIa with activated prothrombin complex concentrate and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. 
Key results We found two clinical trials comparing Novoseven® and FEIBA®. The trials did not show a difference in how well the two products worked and both were tolerated equally well with no clotting complications. We conclude that both recombinant factor VIIa and plasma‐derived concentrates can be used to treat bleeds in people with haemophilia and inhibitors. 
