Policies for replacing long‐term indwelling urinary catheters in adults
Background information  
A urinary catheter is a tube that is inserted into the bladder from the end of the urethra to drain urine from the bladder. Usually, urinary catheters are only required for a few days, such as after an operation. However, there are some medical conditions that may require bladder drainage on a long‐term basis. There are many different ways to care for and maintain a long‐term urinary catheter. In this review we refer to these different care methods as health‐care 'policies'. Examples of policies that relate to the replacement of a long‐term catheter include: time between catheter replacements; use of antibiotics during replacement; use of cleaning solutions or lubricants during replacement; and personnel, environment and techniques used at replacement. This review aimed to identify which policies at the time of long‐term catheter replacement were most effective in improving patient care. 
The main findings of the review  
This review identified that there is currently insufficient high‐quality evidence which evaluates the effectiveness of different policies for replacing long‐term urinary catheters. Only three randomised clinical trials, which included a total of 107 participants, were eligible and included in this review. 
These trials evaluated: (i) different time intervals for catheter replacement, (ii) the use of antibiotics to prevent infection and (iii) the use of different cleaning solutions. There was insufficient evidence to suggest that replacing the catheter monthly and when there was a clinical reason to do so reduced bacteria in the urine compared to replacing the catheter only when there was a clinical reason to do so. However, there was not enough evidence to say whether using antibiotics at the time of replacing the catheter for prevention of infection was effective or whether using water to cleanse during catheter replacement was as effective as an anti‐bacterial washing solution. 
Adverse effects  
None of the trials reported any adverse effects relating to the policies investigated.
Any limitations of the review  
All three trials which were included in this review were very small with methodological flaws. Therefore new trials are needed in order to definitely answer this research question. The evidence in this review is current up to 19 May 2016. 
