Corticosteroid eye drops used in addition to standard antibiotic therapy in the treatment of bacterial keratitis 
Review question 
We reviewed the available information regarding the added effect of corticosteroid eye drops in people with bacterial keratitis (corneal ulcers) who were also being treated with antibiotics. 
Background 
Bacterial keratitis, or corneal inflammation due to bacterial infection, is a sight‐threatening condition. Contact lens wear, ocular surface disease, corneal trauma, and previous ocular or eyelid surgery have been linked to bacterial keratitis. Antibiotic eye drops are the standard treatment for eyes with bacterial keratitis. Corticosteroid eye drops also may be used to control the inflammation from infection. Eye doctors disagree about whether corticosteroid eye drops should be used with antibiotics to treat this condition due to potential side effects of using steroids in the eye. 
Study characteristics 
We found four studies in which antibiotics alone had been compared with antibiotics plus corticosteroids for the treatment of bacterial keratitis. These studies were conducted in the USA, Canada, India, and South Africa, and included a total of 612 eyes of 611 participants. The largest study included 500 participants followed for one year. The three smaller studies followed participants for two to three months. The evidence is current to July 2014. 
Key results 
None of the four studies reported an important difference between topical corticosteroid therapy and placebo or control treatment for reduction in ulcer size, change in visual acuity, adverse events, or quality of life. One study reported that healing or cure time in the steroid group was slower than the placebo group (for every 100 people cured in the control group, only 47 were cured in the steroid group during the same time period), but the largest study did not report any difference (for every 100 people cured in the control group, 92 were cured in the steroid group during the same time interval). For adverse events, none of the studies found a difference between the two groups, except that one study reported that more eyes in the control group developed intraocular pressure (IOP) elevation. We did not find any information on economic outcomes. 
Quality of the evidence 
Generally, the quality of the evidence based on the four studies we identified was moderate due to the proportions of participants who were not included in the final study analyses and the inconsistency of outcomes assessed across the four studies. In addition, three studies enrolled too few participants (30 to 42) to reach scientifically valid conclusions. 
