Tai Chi for people with rheumatoid arthritis
Cochrane researchers conducted a review of the effect of Tai Chi for people with rheumatoid arthritis (RA). Literature searches to September 2018 found seven studies with 345 people, ranging in age from 16 to 80 years, in China, South Korea, and the USA. Some attended classes at a hospital, which ranged from 8 to 12 weeks long; others participated in a self‐guided Tai Chi program. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis ? 
Rheumatoid arthritis is a disease in which the body's immune system attacks its own healthy tissues, causing redness, pain, swelling, and heat around the joints, primarily in the hands and feet. At present, there is no cure for RA, so treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness, and improve the ability to move. 
What is Tai Chi? 
Tai Chi combines deep breathing and relaxation with slow and gentle movements. In older people, Tai Chi has been shown to decrease stress, increase muscle strength in the lower body, and improve balance, posture, and the ability to move. It is not known whether Tai Chi provides the same benefits for people with RA. 
What happened to people with rheumatoid arthritis who did Tai Chi? 
Pain (measured on a visual analog scale (VAS) at 12 weeks)
‐ People who did Tai Chi rated their pain 2.15 points lower (better) on a scale of 0 to 10, compared to the change in the control group (22% absolute improvement). The quality of the evidence was very low, due to a low number of participants and concerns about study design (2 studies, 81 participants). 
‐ People who did not do Tai Chi reported a mean change in pain that ranged from 0.5 lower to 1.6 points higher. 
Disease Activity (measured with the Disability Activity Scale (DAS‐28‐ESR) at 12 weeks)
‐ People who did Tai Chi scored 0.4 points lower (better) on a scale of 0 to 10 for disease activity compared to the control group (4% absolute improvement). The quality of the evidence was very low, due to concerns about study design and a high number of withdrawals (1 study, 43 participants). 
