The effect of pricing policies for pharmaceuticals
Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of the effect of reference pricing and other pricing policies for pharmaceuticals. In 2012, they searched for all relevant studies and finally included 18 studies. Their findings are summarised below. 
What are reference pricing and other pricing policies for pharmaceuticals? 
Large amounts of healthcare funds are spent on medicines and these amounts are increasing. Spending more on medicines could mean less money for other healthcare or non‐health care services. Health insurers are therefore looking for ways of controlling the costs of medicines while still ensuring that patients get the medicines they need. 
One approach that health insurers can use is reference pricing. Here insurers group together medicines that have the same active ingredients or that are used for the same purpose and are just as effective and safe. They then set a 'reference price' that they are willing to pay. If the patient chooses the 'reference medicine', his expenses will be paid. If he chooses a more expensive medicine he will have to pay the difference. 
Another approach is index pricing. Again, insurers group together similar medicines. They then set an 'index price' that they refund to pharmacies each time they dispense a medicine from this group. As the pharmacy is refunded the same amount for any of the medicines in this group it is in their interest to dispense a medicine that costs less than the index price. 
A number of other pricing policies also exist that aim to control medicine costs. It is assumed that these types of policies can lead patients to switch to cheaper medicines and can encourage medicine producers to lower their prices. 
What happens when new payment policies are introduced? 
Most of the studies focused on the effect of reference pricing. These studies looked at the impact of reference pricing one year after it was introduced. They showed that this policy may lead to: 
‐ an increase in 'reference medicine' prescriptions and a decrease in prescriptions for more expensive medicines (low certainty of evidence); 
‐ a decrease in the amount of money insurers spend on medicines overall (low certainty of evidence). 
None of these studies looked at the effect of reference pricing on people’s health, their use of healthcare services, or adverse effects. 
A summary of this review for policy‐makers is availablehere 
