Peginterferon plus ribavirin is more effective than interferon plus ribavirin in clearing hepatitis C virus 
Importance of the review/background on the condition  
Hepatitis C is a disease of the liver caused by the hepatitis C virus. Globally, an estimated 170 million people are chronically infected with the hepatitis C virus. Chronic hepatitis C can cause liver damage in the form of inflammation and scarring of the liver (cirrhosis). Liver damage can lead to liver failure and other complications, including liver cancer. The goal of treatment of chronic hepatitis C is to prevent complications of hepatitis C infection; this could possibly be achieved by clearing the virus from the blood of the patient (sustained virological response, that is, undetectable hepatitis C virus RNA in serum by sensitivity testing six months after the end of treatment). However, we still need to understand whether the sustained virological response outcome induced by antiviral treatment has any association with patient‐relevant and clinically relevant outcomes. A combination of weekly injections of peginterferon and oral ribavirin represents the current standard of care. 
Main findings of the review  
The review identified and included 27 randomised clinical trials comparing peginterferon plus ribavirin versus interferon plus ribavirin in patients with chronic hepatitis C. All trials had high risk of bias, that is, overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms. If we disregard bias from lack of blinding and industry support, then 14 trials were considered to have a lower risk of bias. All trials were able to inform on clearing virus from blood six months after the end of treatment (sustained virological response). We could not be certain that peginterferon plus ribavirin has an effect on liver‐related morbidity plus all‐cause mortality when compared with interferon plus ribavirin. Because so few events occurred, we cannot exclude major beneficial or detrimental effects. This review shows that peginterferon plus ribavirin compared with interferon plus ribavirin significantly increases the number of patients with sustained virological response (50.2% compared with 38.5%), but we do not yet know about any patient‐relevant outcomes. 
