Treatments for pityriasis rosea
Background 
Pityriasis rosea is a common scaly rash prevalent in young adults. A patch of redness and scales is followed by widespread rash. Pityriasis rosea usually resolves within 2 to 12 weeks; however, the rash can resemble a serious contagious skin condition, causing concern. Moreover, pityriasis rosea can cause moderate to severe itching, making effective treatment necessary. 
Review question 
We wanted to evaluate the effectiveness and safety of treatments for pityriasis rosea. Eligible treatments were topical, systemic (oral or injected medicines that work throughout the entire body), or light therapy, given alone or in combination with another treatment, and compared against no treatment, placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), vehicle (inactive ingredients that help deliver an active treatment) only, or another active treatment. As spontaneous recovery usually occurs between 2 and 12 weeks in cases of untreated pityriasis rosea, we considered outcomes reported at two weeks. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to October 2018.
We included 14 studies with a total of 761 participants aged between 2 and 60 years (similar numbers of males and females). Most studies were conducted in Asia in dermatology departments and lasted between 5 to 26 months. Three studies were funded by drug manufacturers; most studies did not report their funding sources. Disease severity was assessed by various measures, but participants were not categorised into mild, moderate, or severe disease. Important treatments assessed by the studies included various antibiotics and acyclovir (a drug meant to treat herpes infections), which were compared to placebo, no treatment, or standard care. Additional treatments included phototherapy, corticosteroids and antihistamine, and Chinese medicine (potenline). Most studies assessed treatment used for one week. 
All reported outcomes were assessed within two weeks of treatment, except for side effects, which were measured throughout treatment. 
None of the included studies reported on the participant's rating of rash improvement. Itch was always participant‐assessed. Rash improvement was rated as good or excellent. 
There is probably no difference between clarithromycin and placebo in medical practitioner‐rated rash improvement or itch resolution, and no serious adverse events were reported (all moderate‐quality evidence). Reduction in itch score and minor side effects were not measured. 
Similarly, there may be no difference in medical practitioner‐rated rash improvement between azithromycin and placebo or vitamins, but erythromycin may lead to increased rash improvement when compared to placebo; however, the results show there may be a benefit with placebo or little or no difference between treatments (low‐quality evidence for both outcomes). There is probably no difference between azithromycin and comparators in itch resolution or reduction in itch score; there was no clear difference in minor side effects, such as mild abdominal pain (both moderate‐quality evidence). When comparing erythromycin to placebo, itch resolution was not measured, but there is probably a greater reduction in itch score with erythromycin. There was no clear difference in the likelihood of minor side effects, such as gastrointestinal upset, between groups (moderate‐quality evidence for both outcomes). 
A single study suggested that acyclovir is probably less effective than placebo in achieving itch resolution (but itch score reduction was not measured). However, results from three studies indicate that acyclovir is probably significantly more beneficial than placebo, no treatment, or vitamin tablets in medical practitioner‐rated rash improvement. There is probably no difference between acyclovir and placebo in the incidence of minor side effects: one participant in the placebo group experienced mild abdominal pain and diarrhoea (all outcomes based on moderate‐quality evidence). 
A single trial indicated that acyclovir used in combination with standard care (calamine (anti‐itch lotion) and the antihistamine cetirizine) may reduce itch score and increase itch resolution (low‐quality evidence). Medical practitioner‐rated rash improvement was not measured. There may be no difference between groups in minor side effects, such as headache, increased sleep, sickness, and impact on taste. 
