Endovascular revascularisation for intermittent claudication (pain in the legs)
Background 
Intermittent claudication, affecting approximately 4.5% of the general population aged 40 years and older, is a common symptomatic form of peripheral arterial disease and is characterised by pain in the calf or buttock in the legs that starts with walking and eases with rest. This leg pain is caused by reduced blood flow to leg muscles due to a blockage in the leg arteries as a consequence of atherosclerosis (hardening and plaque buildup in the arteries). People with intermittent claudication experience severely limited walking distances, resulting in a sedentary lifestyle and decreased quality of life. 
Peripheral endovascular revascularisation (angioplasty) is a minimally invasive procedure performed to clear blockages in the leg arteries that cause decreased blood flow. This procedure is widely used for people with intermittent claudication. In this review we searched the available literature (current until February 2017) to assess the effectiveness of endovascular revascularisation compared with no specific therapy for intermittent claudication, or compared with a conservative therapy option such as supervised exercise or drug therapy. 
Study characteristics and key results 
Our search identified ten trials with a total of 1087 participants. Reviewers judged the overall methodological quality of these studies as moderate. 
Data from three studies comparing endovascular revascularisation with no specific treatment for intermittent claudication except advice to exercise showed a moderate to large effect on walking distances in favour of endovascular revascularisation in the short term. However after long‐term follow up in two studies, this short‐term advantage of endovascular revascularisation had disappeared. The number of additional surgical procedures was not different between groups. One study reported no differences in disease‐specific quality of life after two years. 
Data from five studies comparing endovascular revascularisation with supervised exercise for intermittent claudication showed both therapies to be more or less comparable in terms of improving walking distances, number of additional surgical procedures, and quality of life. 
Data from three studies comparing a combination therapy of endovascular revascularisation plus supervised exercise versus supervised exercise alone showed no clear differences between groups for walking distances in the short term, and data from one study showed a large effect on walking distances in favour of combination therapy over the long term. Disease‐specific quality of life was comparable between study groups. The number of additional surgical procedures was lower following combination therapy. 
