Therapies to reduce the risk of blood clots forming in transplanted organs
What is the issue? 
After an organ is transplanted there is a risk of blood clot forming in an artery supplying blood to the organ, or a vein which drains blood from the organ. If a blood clot forms (termed "graft thrombosis") this prevents blood flow, which can cause the organ to fail. There are lots of therapies which aim to lower the ability of the blood to clot (sometimes called "blood thinners"). It is unclear whether these therapies are able to prevent graft thrombosis, or if they increase the risk of major bleeding. 
What did we do? 
We performed a rigorous search for studies which compared different blood thinning therapies in patients receiving an organ transplant. We were especially interested in studies which reported on graft thrombosis rates, and also on complications of blood thinners, specifically the rate of major bleeding events. Data from multiple studies were combined if possible. 
What did we find? 
We identified nine studies (712 patients) that met our inclusion criteria; the quality of these studies was generally low. There were only two small studies which reported graft thrombosis in kidney transplants. One blood thinner called "unfractionated heparin" may increase the risk of bleeding following kidney transplantation, but this finding is of low certainty. The effect of blood thinners on our other outcomes (need for further surgery or readmission to intensive care, blood transfusion requirements, hospital stay, other side effects, blood clots elsewhere in the body, longevity of the transplanted organ and death) in kidney transplantation remains unclear. 
Two studies investigated various blood thinners in two unique groups of patients who received a liver transplant. It remains unclear whether any of the blood thinning treatments they tested have any effect on graft thrombosis or major bleeding. The effect of blood thinners on other outcomes in liver transplant recipients also remains unclear. 
There were no studies which investigated blood thinners in heart, lung, pancreas, or any other organ transplantation. 
Conclusions 
There is a lack of evidence to guide the use of medications to prevent blood clots in transplanted organs. New research is needed to assess treatments to prevent blood clots, and also to investigate the risks of these treatments, such as major bleeding. 
