What are healthcare stakeholders’ perceptions and experiences of factors affecting the implementation of critical care telemedicine? 
What is the aim of this review?
The aim of this review was to identify factors that affect the acceptance and use of health care from a distance (known as telemedicine) for patients in intensive care units (also known as critical care). To answer this question, we searched for and analysed qualitative studies about the perceptions and experiences of clinical staff, managers and administrators, as well as patients and family members. This review links to another Cochrane Review assessing the effects of telemedicine.  
Key messages
Our review identified several factors that could influence the acceptance and use of telemedicine in critical care. These included the value that hospital staff and family members place on having access to critical care experts, staff access to sufficient training, and the extent to which healthcare providers at the bedside and the critical care experts supporting them from a distance acknowledge and respect each other’s expertise. 
What was studied in this synthesis?
In critical care telemedicine (CCT), patients in intensive care units (ICUs) are monitored by critical care experts based at a ‘hub’ outside the hospital. By monitoring patients, hub staff are able to warn staff at the bedside of potential problems and offer them decision support. The use of CCT means that patients and staff in rural or small hospitals have access to critical care experts. But there may still be challenges when implementing CCT. In this review, we assessed studies that looked at the perceptions and experiences of healthcare workers, family members and others to find factors that could influence the acceptance and use of CCT. 
What are the main findings of the synthesis?
We included 13 relevant studies. Twelve were from the USA and one was from Canada. Where we judged the North American focus of the studies to be a concern for a finding’s relevance, we have reflected this in our assessment of confidence in the finding. The studies explored the views and experiences of bedside and hub critical care personnel; administrative, technical, information technology, and managerial staff, and family members. The ICUs were from hospitals in both urban and rural areas. 
We identified several factors that could influence the acceptance and use of CCT. We had high confidence in the following findings: 
Hospital staff and family members described several advantages of CCT. Bedside and hub staff strongly believed that the main advantage of CCT was having access to experts when bedside doctors were not available. Families also valued having access to critical care experts. Hospital staff also described how CCT could support clinical decision‐making and mentoring of junior staff.  
Hospital staff greatly valued the nature and quality of social networks between the bedside and CCT hub teams. Key issues for them were trust, acceptance, being part of a team, familiarity and effective communication between the two teams. 
