Community coalition‐driven interventions to improve health status and reduce disparities in racial and ethnic minority populations 
Unequal health status among racial and ethnic minority populations compared with the general population is a worldwide public health problem. Decades of public health interventions have led to little success in reducing inequalities in health among racial and ethnic minorities. One approach to reducing health disparities involves using coalitions that include representatives of minority communities to create supportive community environments for healthy choices and quality of life. This review looked for evidence that interventions driven by community coalitions improve health status or reduce health disparities among racial and ethnic minority populations. 
This review, which included searches of databases from January 1990 through March 31, 2014, found 58 community coalition‐driven studies, which addressed a wide array of health outcomes and risk behaviors. Only studies of community coalitions with at least one racial or ethnic minority group representing the target population and at least two community‐based public or private organizations were included. This review examined the effects of four types of strategies or interventions used by community coalitions. 
Community system‐level change strategies (such as initiatives targeting physical environments like housing, green spaces, neighborhood safety, or regulatory processes and policies) have produced small inconsistent effects; broad health and social care system‐level strategies (such as programs targeting behavior of staff in a health or social care system, accessibility of services, or policies, procedures, and technologies designed to improve quality of care) have had consistently positive small effects; interventions that used lay community health outreach workers or group‐based health education led by professional staff have produced fairly consistent positive effects; and group‐based health education led by peers has had inconsistent effects. 
This review shows that interventions led by community coalitions may connect health and human service providers with ethnic and racial minority communities in ways that benefit individual health outcomes and behaviors, as well as care delivery systems. However, to achieve the same levels of health across communities, regardless of race or ethnicity, we need to know specifically how a program does or does not work. This will require better information on how some programs described in this review brought about beneficial change and theresources needed, so they can be replicated. Furthermore, we need better scientific tools to improve our ability to identify effects of programs on whole community systems and to understand the leverage points that, when employed appropriately, shift the distribution of health toward equity. 
