Antidepressants for postnatal depression
Why is this review important? 
Postnatal depression is a common disorder that can have short‐ and long‐term adverse effects on the mother, the new infant and the family as a whole. Antidepressants are commonly used as the first treatment option for adults with moderate to severe depression, but there is little evidence on whether antidepressants are an effective and safe choice for the treatment of this disorder in the postnatal period. This review was undertaken to evaluate the effectiveness of different antidepressants and to compare their effectiveness with other forms of treatment (e.g. psychosocial interventions such as peer support, psychological interventions such as cognitive behavioural therapy), placebo or treatment as usual. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Parents, professionals in primary care services who work with women of reproductive age, general practitioners, professionals in adult mental health services who work with women of reproductive age and professionals working in perinatal mental health services. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review is an update of a previous Cochrane review from 2001, which found insufficient evidence to make conclusions about antidepressant treatment in postnatal depression. Therefore, this update aims to answer the following question: 
What are the effects of antidepressants in comparison with other any other treatment, placebo or treatment as usual for postnatal depression? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched clinical trials registries; the Cochrane Depression, Anxiety and Neurosis Group; and the Cochrane Pregnancy and Childbirth Group databases to find all high‐quality studies comparing antidepressants with any other form of treatment from the upper date limit of the most recent previous searches to July 2014. We contacted drug companies and experts in the field. 
To be included in the review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people were randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) and had to include women with postnatal depression (onset of depression up to six months after giving birth) who were not taking any antidepressant medication at the start of the trial. 
We included six trials of 596 women in the review. Although many of the studies were well conducted and reported, there are some areas with substantial risk of bias; for example, through incomplete follow‐up (e.g. in one study over 50% of the participants dropped out prior to the primary outcome measurement). 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
The quality of evidence from this review was assessed as being very low quality due to the small number of studies, risk of bias in the included studies (in particular, high proportions of participants dropped out) and the fact that many studies excluded women with chronic (i.e. long lasting) or severe depression, or both. We were able to combine data from three studies comparing a type of commonly used antidepressant called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) with placebo. The results showed that women with postnatal depression who were given SSRIs were more likely to improve or recover than those given placebo. We were unable to combine the data from studies comparing antidepressants with other treatments or treatment as usual due to the very small number of studies identified for these comparisons. There was insufficient evidence to conclude whether, and for whom, antidepressant or psychosocial/psychological treatments are more effective, or whether some antidepressants are more effective or better tolerated (or both) than others. Conclusions were also limited by the lack of data on long‐term follow‐up, the safety of breastfeeding or child outcomes. 
What should happen next? 
Larger studies need to be done, and treatment decisions for women with postnatal depression will need to use evidence from other sources such as trials in general adult populations and observational studies of antidepressant safety in the postnatal period. The review authors recommend that future studies in this area should include women with severe postnatal depression, long‐term follow‐up on psychiatric symptoms and quality of life in mothers who have been treated for postnatal depression. In addition, more evidence is needed on outcomes for infants, particularly with regards to the safety of breastfeeding and effect of treatment for postnatal depression on the maternal‐infant relationship. 
