Improving the implementation of school‐based policies and practices to improve student health 
Key messages 
• Schools and their staff implement interventions to address student healthy eating, physical activity, obesity, and tobacco or alcohol use better when strategies are used to support them to do so.• School‐based interventions whose implementation is supported may be slightly more effective in improving student healthy eating, physical activity, obesity or tobacco use.• Most studies do not report economic evaluation of strategies to support implementation of interventions in schools or assess any potential adverse effects. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out how effective strategies were in supporting the implementation of school‐based interventions to address student diet, physical activity, unhealthy weight gain, and tobacco or alcohol use. We wanted to know if they were cost‐effective and if they had any adverse effects. Examples of strategies include methods of improving quality, education and training, feedback on how the school was doing, prompts and reminders, and educational resources (e.g. manuals). 
What did we do? 
We updated a previous search we had conducted for studies that compared the use of a strategy to support intervention implementation to those that had not, or that had compared two or more different implementation strategies. The studies had looked at strategies to support the implementation of interventions in schools that addressed student nutrition, physical activity, obesity, or tobacco or alcohol use. We compared and summarised the results and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 11 new trials to add to those identified in our previous search, bringing the total number of included studies to 38. Most were conducted in the USA and examined strategies to implement healthy eating or physical activity interventions. We found, compared with a control, the use of implementation strategies may result in large improvements in the implementation of interventions in schools, and slight improvements in student healthy eating and physical activity. There was probably little to no effect on student obesity. The effects of implementation strategies on tobacco use are very uncertain. Few trials assessed any economic benefits of the use of intervention implementation support strategies or any potential adverse effects for schools, staff or students. 
