Comparison of open versus minimally‐invasive (laparoscopic) pyloromyotomy for hypertrophic pyloric stenosis 
Review Question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of open versus laparoscopic pyloromyotomy in infants with a diagnosis of infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis. We found 7 studies (reported in 8 reports). 
Background 
Infantile hypertrophic pyloric stenosis describes a narrowing in the area of the stomach outlet (called the pylorus) in children aged under one year. This condition typically presents at between 3 and 10 weeks of age. It leads to an impaired passage of the stomach contents into the first part of the small intestine (the duodenum). The children may have severe vomiting, which can cause dehydration and can disturb the balance of electrolytes in the body.  
The narrowing can be corrected with an operation; the surgeon makes an incision in the thin layer of muscles of the stomach outlet (pyloromyotomy). We included seven studies (with a total of 720 children) in this systematic review that compares the classical open technique for this surgery with a more recent 'laparoscopic' technique. This laparoscopic technique is less invasive because the surgeon avoids a large abdominal cut and uses endoscopic instruments instead. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to February 2021.
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases up to February 2021 and included seven studies involving 720 participants with infantile pyloric stenosis. All participants were infants ranging in age from 11 to 108 days, and there were more male than female patients. All seven studies reported on mucosal perforation rates, four out of seven RCTs reported on incomplete pyloromyotomy. Time of enrolment ranged from 16 to 56 months. 
Study funding sources 
Six out of seven included studies did not report funding sources, one trial received charitable funding. 
Key results 
The review showed that laparoscopic pyloromyotomy may result in a small increase in mucosal perforation rates compared to the open approach. Laparoscopy may also result in higher rates of incomplete pyloromyotomy. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of the laparoscopic approach on postoperative surgical complications including surgical site infection and incisional hernia. Similarly, very low certainty of evidence does not allow a final conclusion on the effect of open compared to laparoscopic pyloromyotomy on length of stay, time to full feeds and operating time in infantile pyloric stenosis. 
