Interventions for drug‐using offenders with co‐occurring mental health problems
What is the aim? 
To identify therapies to reduce drug use and/or criminal activity among criminal justice involved people with mental health problems. 
What is the key message? 
Therapeutic community interventions and mental health treatment courts may help people to reduce subsequent drug use and/or criminal activity. 
What was studied? 
Therapies identified to support criminal justice involved people with mental health and drug misuse problems. 
What are the results? 
￭ When men engage with a therapeutic community intervention compared to treatment as usual, they are probably less likely to be re‐arrested or return to prison (moderate‐certainty). 
￭ When women engage with a therapeutic community intervention compared to a cognitive‐behavioural course, they may not be more likely to reduce drug use, or become involved in criminal activity/drug‐related crimes (low‐certainty). 
￭ When men engage with a therapeutic community compared to no intervention, they are probably less likely to return to prison (moderate‐certainty). 
￭ When juveniles engage with a mental health court compared to treatment as usual, they may be less likely to commit a new crime, return to prison, or take drugs (low‐certainty). 
￭ When juveniles engage with motivational interviewing/mindfulness and cognitive skills, they are probably less likely to show fewer problems than receiving relaxation training (moderate‐certainty). 
￭ When people engage with motivational interviewing/mindfulness and cognitive skills, they may not be more likely to report a reduction/abstinence from drug use when compared to a waiting list control (low‐certainty). 
￭ We are uncertain whether people engaged in motivational interviewing/mindfulness and cognitive skills are not more likely to report a reduction in marijuana use, a positive drug test, or to be re‐arrested when compared to treatment as usual (very low‐certainty). 
￭ When families and juveniles engage in multi‐systemic therapy, they may be more likely to report a reduction in drug dependence or to be re‐arrested in comparison to treatment as usual or group substance abuse therapy (low‐certainty). 
￭ We are uncertain whether people involved in interpersonal psychotherapy are not more likely to use drugs again in comparison to a psychoeducational intervention (very low‐certainty). 
￭ We are uncertain whether people involved in legal defence service and wrap‐around services are not more likely to commit new offences in comparison to a legal defence service only (very low‐certainty). 
