Improving birth control use with programs based on theory
Background 
Theories and models help explain how behavior change occurs. HIV‐prevention research has used theories and models. Programs to prevent sexually transmitted infections (STIs) are often based on behavioral science. The health field has used many theories and models of change. However, programs that address birth control often have no stated theory base. 
Methods 
We did computer searches for randomized trials until 1 November 2016. Programs included must have tested a theory‐based program for improving birth control use. We excluded trials focused on high‐risk groups and efforts to prevent infections. Programs addressed the use of one or more birth control methods. The reports showed that the theory or model was part of the program design. The main outcomes were pregnancy and birth control use. 
Results 
We added 10 new trials for a total of 25. Five came from countries other than the USA. This section focuses on nine trials with good quality results and programs that worked. Five had programs based on social cognitive theory (SCT) and four used motivational interviewing (MI). The SCT studies addressed teen pregnancy and lasted one to two years. They included home‐based sessions for adolescent mothers, school‐based programs to prevent pregnancy and HIV, and community‐based case management. Compared to usual services for adolescent mothers, a program group had fewer second births. The other four trials showed more use of effective birth control or use of condoms at last sex among adolescents in school or in the community, The MI studies focused on individuals from a wide age range. Compared to a group with handouts only in three studies, the MI group had more use of effective birth control or less use of ineffective birth control. In another study, the MI group had more women who started using long‐acting birth control than those with usual counseling. 
Authors' conclusions 
The overall quality of results for our review was moderate. Trials based on SCT focused on teens and provided many sessions. Those using MI had a wider age range but special populations. Sites with low resources need programs than can work in their settings and with their usual clients. Reports could be clearer about how the theory was used to design and conduct the program. 
