Surgery or chemoradiotherapy for stage IB2 cervical cancer
The issue Treatment of cervical cancers that are larger than 4 cm still thought to be confined to the cervix (classified as stage IB2 cervical cancer) is controversial. Some clinicians believe that a combination of radiotherapy (high‐energy rays) and chemotherapy (anti‐cancer drugs), together known as chemoradiotherapy or chemoradiation, is better when the tumours are larger than 4 cm. This is based on the argument that the chance of the cancer returning after surgery is high, therefore most women will need chemoradiotherapy, even if they have surgery initially. The other school of thought is that these tumours are so large that they do not respond well to chemoradiotherapy and women with this stage of cervical cancer would benefit from surgery despite being at high risk of needing chemoradiotherapy after surgery. However, there are concerns about toxicity and complications related to the use of both surgery and chemoradiotherapy in women with cervical cancer, as receiving both treatments can increase morbidity. Therefore, many centres have moved towards providing only chemoradiotherapy. As there remains uncertainty about which treatment (surgery or chemoradiotherapy) is better for women with stage IB2 cervical cancer, we conducted this systematic review to try and answer this question.  How we conducted the review We searched for evidence that compared chemoradiotherapy to surgery (type II or type III radical hysterectomy with bilateral pelvic lymphadenectomy) from 1946 to April 2018. We searched for both randomised controlled trials (where people taking part are put into groups at random) and non‐randomised studies (in which a defined group of people (the cohort) are followed over time).  What we found We only found one non‐randomised study that compared surgery with chemoradiotherapy, but this study combined data on stages IB2 to IIA. Although it met the inclusion criteria, we could not analyse the data as we could not extract data specific to stage IB2 cervical cancers, therefore we considered the findings of this study to be uncertain with respect to our review question.  Conclusions At present, there is no high‐certainty evidence to inform us of which of the current treatment options (chemoradiotherapy or radical surgery) is better for stage IB2 cervical cancer. Women with stage IB2 cervical cancer should be counselled regarding this uncertainty and potential side effects, and the choice of treatment should take into account the availability of the treatments in a particular health resource and patient preference. 
Ideally, a large multicentred trial is needed to determine which of the two treatments are better for treating women with stage IB2 cervical cancer. However, because of the relative rarity of stage 1B2 cancer, and the potential complications resulting from combining surgery and chemoradiotherapy, clinicians might continue to treat most women with chemoradiotherapy, and trials in this field might not be feasible. 
