Platelet count, spleen length, and platelet‐to‐spleen length ratio for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices in people with liver disease 
Background 
Hepatic cirrhosis is a severe disease with scars and nodules on the liver tissue. As a result, the normal function of the liver is impaired. Whatever the cause of cirrhosis, changes in the structure of and blood flow within the liver increase pressure in the portal vein (called portal vein hypertension), which is the vein that drains blood from the bowels to the liver. Portal hypertension induces dilatation (extension) of veins within the wall of the oesophagus (food pipe or gullet), which often rupture (break) with severe bleeding. Thus, when liver cirrhosis is diagnosed, an oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy (OGD) is recommended to detect the presence of oesophageal varices (areas of abnormal dilatation of veins). During OGD, a small camera at the end of a tube is inserted down the oesophagus from the mouth and pictures are relayed back to a screen. Large varices or red signs on even small varices show high risks of rupture and bleeding. If high‐risk varices are found, treatment with beta‐blockers is effective in reducing the risk of bleeding. Three simple non‐invasive tests could be used to identify people with liver diease at high risk of having oesophageal varices: platelet count ‐ a simple laboratory test on a blood sample by which the number of platelets (a blood element ensuring coagulation) is measured; length (maximal diameter) of the spleen measured during ultrasound examination of the abdomen; and ratio of platelet count to spleen length. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for clinical studies comparing platelet count, spleen length, or platelet count‐to‐spleen length ratio versus oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy in detecting the presence of varices in children or adults with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (narrowing of the portal vein). The evidence is current to June 2016. 
Key results 
We found 25 studies with 5096 participants assessing the use of platelet count to diagnose the presence of varices and grade the risk of bleeding, and comparing platelet count versus oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy in adults with cirrhosis: 13 studies with 1489 participants assessed the diagnostic ability of spleen length, and 38 studies with 5235 participants assessed the diagnostic ability of platelet count‐to‐spleen length ratio. Platelet count‐to‐spleen length ratio was the most accurate and could be used to identify people with liver disease who were at high risk of having oesophageal varices. Particularly, in people with hepatic cirrhosis among whom 580 out of 1000 people are expected to have oesophageal varices, only 41 (7% of 580) people will be missed as having varices and will have no appropriate preventive treatment or follow‐up. Thus, if platelet count‐to‐spleen length ratio is lower than 909 (n/mm3)/mm (the most used threshold), the presence of oesophageal varices can be excluded. Thus, it is possible to reduce the number of endoscopic examinations needed to find a person with oesophageal varices. On the contrary, this ratio is not accurate enough to replace endoscopy for identification of high risk of bleeding oesophageal varices. 
