Is local or general anaesthesia better during surgery to widen the main blood vessel to the brain when it becomes narrowed (carotid endarterectomy)? 
Key messages 
‐ Current evidence does not show any clear difference between local anaesthesia (where the patient remains awake) and general anaesthesia for the risk of stroke, death, or other unwanted effects for people having surgery to widen a narrowed carotid artery (carotid endarterectomy). 
‐ Future studies should recruit more people, analyse and publish information from all of them, and make sure that the researchers assessing the outcomes do not know which type of anaesthetic people had. 
What is a carotid endarterectomy? 
A stroke happens when blood stops flowing to any part of your brain. The carotid artery is the main vessel supplying blood to the brain. This artery can become narrowed due to fatty deposits that build up over time. Around 1 in 5 strokes is caused by narrowing of the carotid artery. Blood clots can form at the point of narrowing. If a blood clot breaks off into the bloodstream, it can be carried into the brain, where it blocks the blood supply and causes a stroke. 
A surgical operation – carotid endarterectomy – removes the inner lining, fatty deposits and any blood clots in the carotid artery and can lower the risk of stroke. However, even with very careful surgery, approximately 1 in 20 people will suffer a stroke caused by the operation itself. 
Anaesthetics are medicines that prevent people feeling pain. Surgeons can use either a local anaesthetic, where an area of the body is numbed, or general anaesthetic, where a person is put to sleep. The use of a local anaesthetic rather than a general anaesthetic might lower the risk of a stroke during or after carotid endarterectomy surgery. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if using local anaesthetic for carotid endarterectomy:
‐ lowers the risk of stroke and death around the time of the operation;‐ lowers the rate of other unwanted effects; and‐ is more acceptable to individuals and surgeons 
when compared to general anaesthetic.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared local and general anaesthetics in people who had a carotid endarterectomy. We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 16 studies involving 4839 people. The biggest study included 3526 people and the smallest study had 20 people. The studies were conducted around the world. More men than women were included in the studies, and their average age was 67 years. 
Main results 
Local anaesthetic makes little to no difference in risk of stroke within 30 days of surgery compared to general anaesthetic. 
Local anaesthetic may not reduce risk of death within 30 days of surgery compared to general anaesthetic. 
Since neither type of anaesthesia has clear benefits over the other, the choice of which to use can be made on the basis of the clinical situation, and the preferences of the surgeon and patient. 
Main limitations of the evidence 
We have either little, or moderate, confidence in these results. The quality of the evidence was reduced because, in most studies, it was possible that researchers collecting information about the outcomes of surgery knew which type of anaesthetic people had been given; this could have influenced their assessments. Also, information from some people who were meant to be included in the studies was left out, which also reduces the quality of the evidence. 
How up to date is this evidence? 
The evidence is current to February 2021.
