Fludrocortisone for the treatment of orthostatic hypotension
Review question 
In people with orthostatic hypotension, does fludrocortisone prevent or reduce a symptomatic drop in blood pressure that occurs with changes in position (for example, from sitting to standing) and does it have unwanted effects? 
Background 
Orthostatic, or postural, hypotension is a condition in which blood pressure falls when moving from a seated or lying flat position to a standing position. Regular, reproducible symptomatic postural hypotension is an abnormal bodily response. 
Orthostatic hypotension can be due to the heart failing to supply enough blood to the brain after a change in position. It can also stem from failures in blood vessel response to a change in position, for which there are many causes. Medications, dehydration, poor physical health and age all contribute to the problem. It is more common among people older than 65 and increases with age. 
Symptoms include dizziness, lightheadedness and feeling faint. Some people have more general complaints such as weakness, fatigue, headache, visual blurring, trouble thinking, leg buckling, neck pain, breathlessness or chest pain. Some episodes of postural hypotension result in a faint, fall or 'black‐out'. Symptoms decrease when blood pressure returns to normal, typically when the person sits, lies or, occasionally, falls down. 
Fludrocortisone acetate is a man‐made steroid that increases blood volume and improves the ability of blood vessels to respond to changes in position. Fludrocortisone is taken by mouth. It has also been associated with high blood pressure, swelling, congestive heart failure, low potassium (a blood salt), headache, sleeplessness and increased sweating. Other common medications for postural hypotension include midodrine and droxidopa. 
Because postural hypotension results from many underlying diseases and conditions, it is important to understand the effect of fludrocortisone depending upon the underlying physical cause (heart pumping action or blood vessel reaction), by other underlying disease (Parkinson disease, diabetes, etc.) and by age. In this way, we can better understand whether different groups of people will be helped or harmed by using this medication. 
We reviewed all the evidence about the effects of use of fludrocortisone in people with orthostatic hypotension. 
Search date 
The evidence is up to date to 11 November 2019.
Study characteristics 
After in‐depth screening of the scientific literature, we included 13 studies involving 513 participants. Only three studies used the most rigorous research design (randomized controlled trial [RCT]). Additionally, two non‐RCTs filled gaps in the evidence. The randomized studies were small (a total of 28) and short‐term (lasting three weeks or less). The randomized studies found that fludrocortisone reduced blood pressure drop compared to placebo (an inactive medication) in people with severe diabetic neuropathy, and compared to a medication called pyridostigmine when used in people with Parkinson disease. Among people with Parkinson disease, overall orthostatic symptoms were unchanged when fludrocortisone was compared to pyridostigmine but symptoms were reduced by both fludrocortisone and domperidone (an alternative medication) when compared. Side effects seen in these studies were minimal. 
Study funding sources 
Of the five studies that offered the best available evidence, two were at least partially funded by research foundations (such as the Dysautonomia Foundation), one had fludrocortisone tablets provided by the pharmaceutical company, and two did not report on funding. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
Based on considerable limitations in the available evidence, we cannot draw firm conclusions on the use of fludrocortisone for orthostatic hypotension in people with diabetes or Parkinson disease. The available evidence on blood pressure drop, orthostatic symptoms and adverse events in people with diabetes or Parkinson disease was very low‐certainty. We still need more and better information about long‐term use and about the effects of this medication among people with diseases besides Parkinson disease and diabetes. 
