How well does rufinamide treat drug‐resistant epilepsy when given with another antiepileptic medicine? 
What is drug‐resistant epilepsy?Epilepsy is a condition in which sudden bursts of intense electrical activity happen in the brain and cause the brain's messages to get mixed up, resulting in a seizure. Seizures affect people in different ways: they may cause unusual sensations, movements or feelings, loss of awareness, falls, stiffness or jerking. Epileptic seizures can occur repeatedly and without any triggers. Seizures can happen anytime and anywhere; they can come on suddenly and can happen often. 
Treatments for epilepsy focus on stopping or reducing the number of seizures a person has with as few unwanted effects as possible. Most seizures are controlled by taking a single antiepileptic medicine. But some people's epilepsy does not respond (drug‐resistant epilepsy) and they may need more than one medicine to control the seizures. Drug‐resistant epilepsy is more common if the seizures involve one area of the brain (focal epilepsy) rather than the whole outer area of the brain (generalised epilepsy). 
Why we did this review Rufinamide is an antiepileptic medicine. It is given in addition to other antiepileptic medicines as an ‘add‐on’ treatment for focal epilepsy in adults and adolescents. 
We wanted to know how well add‐on rufinamide works to treat drug‐resistant epilepsy, including the potential benefits and any unwanted effects of treatment. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that investigated the use of rufinamide as an add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the treatments people received were decided at random, because these studies usually give the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. We assessed the evidence we found by looking at how the studies were conducted, the study sizes, and whether their findings were consistent. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to 20 February 2020. 
What we foundWe found six studies in 1759 people (aged 4 to 80 years). Four studies included people with focal seizures and two studies included children with Lennox‐Gastaut syndrome (a type of epilepsy affecting children). They were short‐term studies: treatments were given for at most 96 days, and assessments continued for up to 3 to 6 months afterwards. 
The studies assessed add‐on rufinamide treatment compared with an 'add‐on' dummy (placebo) treatment. The doses of rufinamide in the studies ranged from 200 mg to 3200 mg daily. 
We were interested in how many seizures people had. We also wanted to find out if adding rufinamide would affect the number and types of unwanted effects. 
What are the results of our review?Adding rufinamide to another antiepileptic medicine probably reduced how often seizures happened more than an add‐on placebo did (6 studies). Add‐on rufinamide probably increased seizure freedom (no seizures) more than an add‐on placebo, although only one study measured this. 
More people stopped taking add‐on rufinamide (because of unwanted effects or for any other reason) than stopped taking add‐on placebo treatment (6 studies). Unwanted effects were probably more common in people who received add‐on rufinamide rather than add‐on placebo. Unwanted effects that were reported included: feeling dizzy (3 studies), feeling tired (3 studies), feeling sick (3 studies), headache (3 studies), feeling drowsy or sleepy (6 studies), being sick (vomiting) (4 studies) and double vision (3 studies). 
