Direct thrombin inhibitors compared with vitamin K antagonists in people with atrial fibrillation for preventing stroke 
Question: We wanted to compare the effectiveness and safety of direct thrombin inhibitors (DTIs) with vitamin K antagonists in people with atrial fibrillation (AF) to prevent stroke. 
Background: Non‐valvular atrial fibrillation is a type of irregular heartbeat that arises in a heart with normal valves. It increases the risk of developing blood clots in the heart which can then travel to the brain, leading to a stroke, and to other parts of the body. Warfarin (a vitamin K antagonist) is a drug that prevents the formation of such clots, thus reducing the risk of stroke. However, the need for frequent blood tests to adjust the dose and the risk of bleeding limits the use of warfarin. The oral DTIs represent a potential alternative. We aimed to establish the comparative effectiveness and safety of these new drugs compared with the standard treatment (warfarin) used for long‐term anticoagulation in people with AF. 
Study characteristics: We included eight studies, identified up to October 2013, evaluating the effect of DTIs versus warfarin in people with non‐valvular AF. DTIs included were dabigatran 110 mg or 150 mg twice daily (three studies, 12,355 participants), AZD0837 300 mg once a day (two studies, 233 participants) and ximelagatran 36 mg twice daily (three studies, 3726 participants). Of the total number of participants included in this review 61% were men, and the mean age of participants in all studies was over 70 years. Follow‐up periods after the end of study medication ranged from zero to four weeks. 
Key results: We conducted the analyses excluding ximelagatran because this drug was withdrawn from the market owing to toxic effects on the liver. We evaluated the effectiveness of the treatment by the number of vascular deaths and ischaemic events. We evaluated safety by the number of (1) fatal and non‐fatal major bleeding events, including haemorrhagic strokes, (2) adverse events other than bleeding and ischaemic events that led to treatment discontinuation, and (3) death from all causes. 
There was no difference in the number of vascular deaths and ischaemic events between all DTIs combined and warfarin, although dabigatran 150 mg twice daily was superior to warfarin for this outcome. Major bleeding events were less frequent with the DTIs, making them a potentially safer alternative to anticoagulation in people at high risk. The adverse events that led participants to discontinue treatment were more frequent with the DTIs. Death from all causes was similar between DTIs and warfarin. 
