Ultrasound scan for confirmation of gastric tube placement
Background 
Each year approximately one million people receive a tube feeding (gastric tube) in the US. Gastric tubes are commonly used for giving drugs and nutrition directly into the gastrointestinal tract (tube that digests food) for people who are unable to swallow. Feeding via a tube that is misplaced in the trachea (wind pipe) can result in severe pneumonia (infection of the lungs). Therefore, confirmation of tube placement in the stomach after tube insertion is important. Gastric tubes are also used to reduce the pressure of the stomach after providing breathing assistance through masks, which is mainly used in resuscitation. Medical ultrasound is one of the diagnostic imaging techniques using sound waves to create images of the inside of the body. Recent studies suggest that ultrasound provides good diagnostic accuracy in the confirmation of appropriate tube placement. Hence, ultrasound could provide a promising alternative to X‐rays in confirming tube placement, especially where X‐ray facilities are unavailable or difficult to access. 
Study characteristics 
Studies included in this review are current to March 2016. We included 10 studies involving 545 participants for evaluation of the diagnostic accuracy of ultrasound for confirmation of gastric tube placement. 
Key results 
Most studies showed good performance for correct placement of the tube. However, few data were available for incorrect placement of the tube and the possible complications of a misplaced tube. Among the included studies, only 43 participants had a misplaced tube. None of the studies reported complications during ultrasound use. Three methods of ultrasound were reported: neck approach, upper abdominal (tummy) approach and a combination of both. No included studies indicated that ultrasound had sufficient accuracy as a single test for the confirmation of gastric tube placement for feeding. In contrast, ultrasound combined with other tests (e.g. saline flush visualization (pushing salt solution through the tube and seeing it inside the stomach by ultrasound)) might be useful for the confirmation of tubes used for gastric drainage. 
Limitations of the review 
Generally, the studies were of low or unclear methodological quality. We considered only three (30%) of the 10 included studies to be representative of patients in practice because they performed ultrasound after they confirmed correct position by other methods. The studies reported a variety of results for incorrect tube placement. 
Future research 
Larger studies are needed to investigate whether ultrasound could replace X‐rays for confirming gastric tube placement, as well as whether ultrasound could decrease severe complications, such as pneumonia, from a misplaced tube. 
