Continuous nasogastric milk feeding versus intermittent bolus milk feeding for preterm infants less than 1500 grams 
Review question 
Is continuously feeding through a tube placed into the stomach through the nose or mouth better than feedings given every two to three hours through a tube, in premature, very low birth weight babies? 
Background 
Preterm infants born weighing less than 1500 grams are not able to coordinate sucking, swallowing, and breathing. Feeding into the stomach (enteral feeding) helps with gastrointestinal tract development and growth. Therefore, in addition to feeding through a tube into a vein (parenterally), preterm infants may be fed milk through a tube placed either up their nose and into the stomach (nasogastric feeding) or through their mouth and into the stomach (orogastric feeding). Usually, a set amount of milk is given over 10 to 20 minutes every two to three hours (intermittent bolus gavage feeding). Some clinicians prefer to feed preterm infants continuously. Each feeding method has potential beneficial effects but may also have harmful effects. 
Study characteristics 
We included nine studies that involved 919 babies. One further study is awaiting classification. Seven of the nine included trials reported data from infants with a maximum weight of between 1000 grams and 1400 grams. Two of the nine trials included infants weighing up to 1500 grams. The search is up to date as of 17 July 2020. 
Key results 
Babies receiving continuous feeding may reach full enteral feeding slightly later than babies receiving intermittent feeding. Full enteral feeding is defined as the baby taking a specified volume of human or formula milk feeds by the required route. This promotes the development of the gastrointestinal system, reduces the risk of infection from intravenous catheters used to deliver parenteral nutrition, and may reduce the length of hospital stay.   
It is uncertain if there is any difference between continuous feeding and intermittent feeding in terms of number of days to regain birth weight, days of feeding interruptions, and rate of gain in weight. 
Continuous feeding may result in little to no difference in rate of gain in length or head circumference compared with intermittent feeding. 
