Febuxostat for treating chronic gout
This summary of a Cochrane review represents what we know from research about the effect of febuxostat for treating chronic gout. 
From six studies including 3978 people with chronic gout, the review shows that,
In people with chronic gout: 
‐ febuxostat probably reduces uric acid levels;
‐ febuxostat probably increases the incidence of gout flares during early treatment (while getting the uric acid levels down). The normalization of serum uric acid leads to mobilization of urate from tissue deposits, which in turn may increase the number of attacks; 
‐ febuxostat probably shows similar benefits as allopurinol after three years of use.
We do not have information about febuxostat effects on joint imaging, musculoskeletal function, pain, overall assessment, and quality of life. Also, we do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include liver enzyme elevations, high blood pressure and diarrhoea. Rare complications may include certain cardiovascular events (chest pain, coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, or atrial fibrillation). 
What is chronic gout and what is febuxostat? 
Uric acid is a product normally present in the blood as a result of the breakdown of certain products called 'purines'. Gout is a disease caused by high uric acid levels in the blood leading to crystal formation in the joints, most commonly joints of the lower limbs such as the big toe, heels, ankles and knees. Gout usually presents as acute attacks causing joint swelling and pain, but also can lead to chronic arthritis. While there is no cure for the disease, treatment can prevent recurrent gout attacks and improve its chronic form. 
Research shows that keeping uric acid levels below 6.0 mg/dL can reduce gout attacks over time. However, in the first months of therapy, there could be an increased number of gout attacks, due to the nature of the treatment. 
Febuxostat is a new drug that can help lower uric acid levels in the blood in adults with gout. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with chronic gout who take febuxostat: 
Febuxostat was proven effective in lowering uric acid to less than 6.0 mg/dL.
In short‐term studies (one year or less), when febuxostat was compared with placebo (a sham or fake medication): 
‐ 6 patients out of 100 had more gout attacks taking febuxostat 80 mg (6% absolute increase in attacks); 
‐ 75 more patients out of 100 taking febuxostat 80 mg reached their goal of uric acid level below 6.0 mg/dL (75% absolute benefit). 
When febuxostat was compared with allopurinol, another medicine often used to lower uric acid: 
‐ 2 patients out of 100 had more gout attacks taking febuxostat 80 mg (2% absolute increase in attacks); 
‐ 29 more patients out of 100 on febuxostat 80 mg reached an acid level below 6.0 mg/dL (29% absolute benefit). 
In studies of more than three years:
febuxostat at any dose had the same effect as allopurinol in reaching a uric acid level of less than 6.0 mg/dL, and there was no observed increase in gout attacks.   
