Transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus surgical aortic valve replacement in people with severe aortic stenosis and low surgical risk 
Review question 
Does transcatheter approach, compared to open‐heart surgery, for aortic valve replacement improve outcomes in people with severe aortic stenosis and low surgical risk? 
Background 
Aortic stenosis (AS) is the narrowing of the exit of the left ventricle of the heart (where the aorta begins). It typically gets worse over time. Its severity can be divided into mild, moderate, severe, and very severe; and it is distinguishable by ultrasound scan of the heart and other clinical features. Once it has become severe, treatment primarily involves surgery to replace the valve. An alternative approach is to use transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI). This approach improves outcomes in individuals who are inoperable or at a high to intermediate risk for surgery. However, it remains unclear if TAVI is beneficial to those who have severe AS and are at a low surgical risk. 
Search Date 
The evidence is current to April 2019. We searched the literature and found a total of 3092 citations that were potentially relevant. After reviewing each of these, we found 13 published articles describing four clinical trials that could help us answer our question. 
Study characteristics 
The four clinical trials included 2818 participants who were randomly allocated to undergo either TAVI or surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR). The trials were multicentre and took place in Australia, Canada, France, Japan, the Netherlands, New Zealand, the USA, Denmark, and Sweden. 
Key Results 
Moderate‐certainty evidence from clinical trials shows that, in the short term (i.e. during hospitalisation and up to 30 days of follow‐up), there is probably little or no difference between TAVI compared with SAVR in risk of death due to any cause, stroke (insult to the brain), myocardial infarction (injury or death of heart muscle), or death due to cardiac causes (e.g. myocardial infarction or failure of the heart muscle pump). Low‐certainty evidence shows that TAVI may reduce the risk of rehospitalisation compared with SAVR. We are uncertain whether TAVI, compared with SAVR, affects the length of hospital stay, although it appears to be associated with shorter duration of hospitalisation. High‐certainty evidence shows that fewer people had atrial fibrillation (a type of irregular heart rhythm), acute kidney injury (insult to the kidney), and bleeding when they underwent TAVI, compared with SAVR. However, moderate‐certainty evidence shows that TAVI probably increases the risk of permanent pacemaker implantation (a device that is placed to artificially set the heart rhythm), compared with SAVR. 
Quality of the evidence 
We consider the overall quality of evidence to be moderate for most relevant outcomes (death, stroke, myocardial infarction, cardiac death, and risk of permanent pacemaker implantation), with the exception of rehospitalisation (low‐quality evidence) and length of hospital stay (very low quality evidence). The evidence for atrial fibrillation, acute kidney injury, and bleeding was of high quality. 
