Are antibiotics beneficial for flare‐ups of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease?
Review question 
We conducted this systematic review to find out if the benefits of taking antibiotics for flare‐ups of COPD outweigh potential harms (e.g. risks of multi‐resistant bacteria for this population). 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic condition (most often caused by smoking or environmental exposure) that affects the passage of air into and out of the lungs. As a consequence, patients experience shortness of breath and coughing. Flare‐ups of COPD are a hallmark of more advanced stages of the disease. Flare‐ups are defined as sustained worsening of symptoms from the patient's usual stable state. Commonly reported symptoms include worsening breathlessness, cough, increased sputum production, and change in sputum colour. Clinicians frequently prescribe antibiotics for flare‐ups in patients with COPD, although the cause of flare‐ups is often difficult to determine (viral, bacterial, environmental). 
Study characteristics 
Evidence gathered for this review is current to September 2018. We found 19 randomised studies that compared antibiotics versus placebo in a total of 2663 COPD patients with a wide range of flare‐up severity. 
Key results 
Analyses show that currently used antibiotics reduced treatment failures (no improvement in symptoms, despite treatment, within 7 to 28 days, depending on the study) compared with placebo in outpatients with mild to moderate flare‐ups, as well as in patients admitted to an intensive care unit for very severe flare‐ups with respiratory failure. However, antibiotics did not reduce treatment failures among hospitalised patients with severe flare‐ups, although we are less certain about this result because the effect estimate also suggested findings similar to those seen in outpatients, but the confidence interval crossed 1.0. Use of antibiotics led to reduced mortality only in patients admitted to an intensive care unit, but not in patients with mild to moderate (outpatients) or severe (inpatients) flare‐ups, although deaths were rare in these latter groups. Antibiotics did not reduce length of hospital stay for hospitalised patients. Patients treated with antibiotics experienced diarrhoea more often than those given placebo, but the difference was not statistically significant. Reviewers could not compare the severity of underlying COPD across trials because trial authors inconsistently reported lung function and other parameters. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence for review outcomes was low to moderate.
Conclusion 
Although trial results show that antibiotics were effective across outcomes for patients with very severe flare‐ups and respiratory failure who needed treatment in an intensive care unit, researchers report inconsistent effects in patients with mild to severe flare‐ups. Future high‐quality studies should examine clinical signs or blood tests at the time of presentation that are useful for identifying patients who can benefit from antibiotic therapy. 
