Can individual caseworker‐assigned discharge plans reduce readmissions for acute exacerbations in children with chronic respiratory disease? 
Background 
Acute exacerbations (flare‐ups) of long‐term breathing diseases in children leads to high use of health resources and poor quality of life for children and their families. Providing extra support and education to a child and his/her family during a hospitalisation for an acute flare‐up may improve their quality of life and reduce future healthcare visits. A caseworker assigned to each child during a hospital admission may help provide individual education and discharge planning and ongoing support once the child has been discharged. We reviewed whether individualised case management support services during and following hospitalisation for acute flare‐ups of long‐term breathing diseases in children is beneficial. Specifically, we wanted to know if caseworkers can help prevent further hospital admissions and reduce the number of visits to other health services such as emergency departments and general practitioners. 
Review question 
Do individualised, caseworker‐assigned discharge management plans prevent hospital readmissions for acute flare‐ups in children with long‐term breathing diseases? 
Study characteristics 
We included all randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to a treatment group using a random method) that assessed whether those who received individualised caseworker discharge planned management (the intervention group) had better outcomes compared to those who received usual care (the control group). We considered the number of hospital readmissions, emergency department visits, and/or unscheduled general practitioner visits following discharge. 
The evidence is current to 15 November 2017.
We found four studies that included 773 children aged 14 months to 16 years. All the studies involved children with asthma. The programme used for the discharge plan differed among the studies, but all were delivered by a trained asthma educator (lay health worker or nurse specifically trained on educating patients with asthma). The studies followed the children for 2 to 14 months after discharge. We could only include data from two studies in a combined analysis (i.e. the meta‐analysis), as the other two studies also enrolled children who were not hospitalised, and we could not obtain data specific to the children who were hospitalised and one of those studies included children with acute wheezing illness( no previous asthma diagnosis); the data specific to this review could not be obtained. 
Key results 
In this review involving children hospitalised with asthma flare‐ups, trained asthma educator‐led and structured discharge plans that included follow‐up support (compared to the control group) reduced the number of hospital readmissions for acute asthma. No clear benefit was seen on future emergency department or general practitioner visits for acute asthma. Data on cost‐effectiveness, length of stay of future hospitalisations, and adherence to discharge medications were not available. One study reported quality of life and found no differences between the intervention and control group. There were no studies relating to other long‐term breathing diseases. 
Conclusions 
Individual caseworker‐assigned discharge planned management, as compared to non‐caseworker‐assigned management, may prevent readmissions to hospital for asthma flare‐ups in children. However, the current evidence is limited to only two studies in children with asthma. Further studies are needed in a broad range of long‐term breathing diseases in childhood. 
Quality of the evidence 
We considered the quality of the evidence to be moderate for the outcome of hospital readmissions and low for the outcomes of future emergency department visits and general practitioner consultations for asthma flare‐ups. 
