Aromatherapy for dementia
Background to the reviewMedication prescribed for the treatment of dementia is not always effective at relieving symptoms of the condition such as problems with thinking, behaviour, mood, and sleep. Natural therapies, including aromatherapy (the use of fragrant essential oils from plants), are attractive options for treating these distressing symptoms of dementia as they are often thought to have a low risk of side effects. 
Review questionIs aromatherapy safe and effective at relieving symptoms of dementia? 
What we didWe searched the medical literature up to 5 May 2020, looking for studies which compared aromatherapy for people with dementia to a control treatment, which could be either usual care or ‘dummy’ aromatherapy involving a non‐fragrant oil. To make the comparison fair, the studies had to assign people randomly to aromatherapy or to the control treatment. We looked at the effect on agitation, behavioural and mental health issues, and other important symptoms of dementia. We also looked for reports of side effects. Because the studies were so different from each other, we were not able to combine results statistically so we described the results of individual studies and assessed how confident we could be in them. 
Study characteristicsWe found 13 studies to include in the review. There were 708 participants in total. All had dementia and were living in care homes. The most commonly used aromatherapy fragrance was lavender. Studies also used lemon balm, orange and cedar extracts. 
Main findingsTen studies assessed agitation, but five did not report data we could use or our confidence in their results was very low. We had moderate or low confidence in the results of the other five: four reported no significant effect of aromatherapy and one reported a significant benefit. Eight studies assessed behavioural and mental health issues, but three did not report any usable data, or our confidence in the results was very low. Of the other five, for which our confidence was moderate or low, four reported a significant benefit from aromatherapy and one reported no significant effect. Side effects of treatment were either poorly reported or not reported at all. No more than three studies reported our secondary outcomes which were quality of life, cognition (thinking), mood, sleep, activities of daily living, and caregiver burden. We found no evidence that aromatherapy was helpful for any of these outcomes. 
Quality of the evidenceOverall the quality of the evidence was poor. Many of the studies were poorly reported and some did not report any data we could use. Most studies were very small so that there was a lot of uncertainty about their results. Results of different studies did not agree with one another. 
