Marine‐derived fatty acid therapy for stroke
Review question 
What are the effects of marine‐derived omega‐3 fatty acids for stroke after a short (up to three months) and a longer (more than three months) follow‐up? 
Background 
The term stroke refers to a group of diseases of blood vessels in the brain. Stroke can be caused by either bleeding or blockage in these vessels that leads to a loss of function of brain cells. Transient ischaemic attack (TIA), also called a 'mini‐stroke', is a temporary disruption of blood supply to the brain. Stroke is a disabling disease that usually requires prolonged specialised care and currently there are few treatment options for stroke patients. Omega‐3 fatty acids (eicosapentaenoic acid (EPA) and docosahexaenoic acid (DHA)), present in oily fish, have important functions in the brain. In animal research, they appear to protect the brain cells after stroke, particularly if they are administered very early. However, the effects of EPA and DHA as a treatment for stroke in humans are unclear. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 30 studies that included participants with stroke or TIA and we found relevant information in nine of them (3339 participants in total). Three had a short follow‐up (up to three months) and six had a longer follow‐up. Three studies compared marine‐derived omega‐3 fatty acids to normal care and the remainder used a placebo (dummy). Not all of the studies assessed all outcomes. 
Key results 
The effects of marine‐derived omega‐3 fatty acids on stroke recovery are unclear. Only two very small studies reported it, one in each follow‐up category, without finding meaningful differences. One study in the short follow‐up group found less improvement in mood with marine‐derived omega‐3 fatty acids but the evidence was of low certainty. The effect of marine‐derived omega‐3 fatty acids on deaths due to blood vessel disease, recurrence of stroke, adverse events, and quality of life after having a stroke or TIA is unclear in both follow‐up categories, due to the small number of studies that have assessed them. 
Certainty of the evidence 
In both the short and longer follow‐up studies the certainty of the evidence was very low or low. The frequency of other type of stroke and quality of life were not reported in the longer follow‐up. 
