Medicines for spinal muscular atrophy types II and III
What was the aim of this review? 
This Cochrane Review aimed to look at the effects of medicines on spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) types II and III in terms of disability, muscle strength, ability to stand or walk, quality of life, and time to death or full‐time ventilation, within one year of beginning treatment. We also wanted to identify any harmful effects of the treatments during the trial period. Cochrane review authors collected relevant studies to answer this question and found 10 studies. 
Key messages 
Nusinersen given by intrathecal (into the spine) injection probably improves disability in SMA. 
Creatine, phenylbutyrate, gabapentin, hydroxyurea, valproic acid and combination therapy with valproic acid and acetyl‐L‐carnitine probably have no clinically important effect on motor function (movements and actions of the muscles) in SMA types II and III, based on evidence from single completed, published trials. 
Olesoxime and subcutaneous somatotropin may have little or no effect on motor function in SMA, but the reliability of the evidence was very low. One trial of intravenous (into a vein) thyrotropin‐releasing hormone (TRH) did not measure motor function and the reliability of the evidence was very low. All the studies had limitations in design or performance that could have affected the results. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review is of medicines for SMA types II and III. Symptoms of SMA first appear in childhood and adolescence. The main feature is increasing muscle weakness. Children with SMA type II will never be able to walk without support; they usually live into adolescence or longer, but with a shortened life expectancy. The age of onset of SMA type II is between six and 18 months. Children with SMA type III will walk independently but may lose the ability to walk at some time and they have a normal life expectancy. The age of onset of SMA type III is after 18 months. 
What were the main results of the review? 
We identified 10 trials, which included 717 participants. All trials compared a medicine with an inactive substance (placebo) or sham (pretend) procedure. The trials studied oral (by mouth) creatine (55 participants), oral gabapentin (84 participants), oral phenylbutyrate (107 participants), oral hydroxyurea (57 participants), intrathecal nusinersen (126 participants), oral olesoxime (165 participants), subcutaneous (under the skin) somatotropin (20 participants), intravenous TRH (nine participants), oral valproic acid (33 participants) or combination therapy with oral valproic acid and acetyl‐L‐carnitine (ALC) (61 participants). Treatment duration was from three to 24 months. 
Nusinersen had a beneficial effect on motor function in people with SMA type II, when compared to a sham procedure. There were probably no beneficial effects on motor function in SMA types II/III for creatine, gabapentin, hydroxyurea, phenylbutyrate, valproic acid or combination therapy with valproic acid and ALC. Olesoxime and somatotropin may have no effect on motor function. The small TRH trial did not assess motor function and did not provide evidence of any reliability on other outcomes. We found all the studies to have limitations in design or performance that could have affected the results. Eight studies were (partially) funded by pharmaceutical companies, either by supplying the study drug or by giving financial support otherwise. In two studies investigating nusinersen and olesoxime, the pharmaceutical companies were involved in data analysis and reporting. 
We are awaiting the results of nine completed trials investigating 4‐aminopyridine, ALC, CK‐2121707 hydroxyurea, pyridostigmine, riluzole, RO6885247/RG7800, salbutamol and valproic acid which were not available at the time of writing. 
