Central venous catheter coating with antiseptics or antibiotics for reducing catheter‐related infections in adults 
Background 
CVCs are essential devices for giving fluids, medications, intravenous nutrition and cancer treatment to patients. Compared to peripheral catheters (i.e. tubes inserted via veins in the limbs that are designed for short‐term use), CVCs are longer and reach deeper into the major veins of the body, providing a more secure and durable intravenous access. However, infections, especially of the bloodstream, are common in patients with CVCs. Sometimes these infections are fatal. Several measures have been developed to reduce such infections, including coating or impregnation of CVCs with antiseptics or antibiotics. While these new technologies are promising, it is not clear whether they provide effective protection for a sufficiently long period against the wide variety of bacteria that might adapt to any strategy designed to overcome them. Furthermore, the benefits of these modified catheters in different settings, e.g. intensive care units (ICU), standard wards and cancer units, also require on‐going evaluation. Many clinical guidelines recommend the use of antimicrobial‐impregnated CVCs, although studies reveal conflicting results 
Review question 
We reviewed evidence about the effectiveness and safety of antimicrobial‐impregnated central venous catheters (CVCs) on bloodstream infections and death in adults who needed a CVC, and found 57 relevant studies. 
Search date 
In this update, we included evidence current to March 2015, updating the previous version of the review which was current to March 2012. 
Study characteristics 
We included 57 studies with 16,784 catheters and 11 types of antimicrobial impregnation. The total number of participants was not clear as some studies did not provide this information, and some participants may have had more than one CVC in the course of their treatment. The participants were mostly adults aged 18 and over in ICUs, cancer units or other healthcare settings in which CVCs were used for intravenous treatment or nutrition. All studies were completed when the participants left the unit or hospital, and no study followed up participants in the long‐term. 
Source of funding 
Twenty‐six out of 57 studies were funded fully or partially by the catheter manufacturers or distributors, two studies were government‐funded, and two received no funding. Funding sources were not stated in the remaining 27 studies. 
Key results 
Compared to those participants given non‐impregnated catheters, participants with impregnated catheters had 2% lower rates of bloodstream infections that were definitely catheter‐related (CRBSI) (average absolute reduction in CRBSI: 2%). There was also a 9% lower chance of finding bacteria on these impregnated catheters (catheter colonization) (average absolute reduction in catheter colonization: 9%). However, the benefits of these catheters in reducing catheter colonization varied according to study setting, with significant benefits observed only in studies conducted in the ICUs. There were no clinically significant differences in the overall rates of bloodstream infections (clinically‐diagnosed sepsis) or in death, although these outcomes were assessed in fewer studies than CRBSI and catheter colonization. Impregnated catheters appeared no more likely than non‐impregnated catheters to cause adverse effects such as bleeding, clots, pain or redness at the insertion site. 
Quality of evidence 
The amount of information in this review contributed to high‐quality evidence for the major outcomes of CRBSI, all‐cause mortality and adverse effects. However, for clinically‐diagnosed sepsis we considered the quality of the evidence to be moderate, as we suspected that there had been selective non‐publication of certain trials. We considered the quality of evidence to be moderate for catheter colonization too, due to major inconsistencies in the direction of the results amongst the included studies. 
