Medical interventions to prevent early graft rejection after liver transplantation
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review? 
Liver transplantation is the main treatment option for people with severe advanced liver disease. When organs or tissues are transplanted from one person (organ donor) to another (organ recipient), the body of the organ recipient identifies the donor organ (or graft) as a foreign body and initiates a response against it in a way similar to the natural body defence mechanism against infections (immune response). This can sometimes lead to rejection or failure of the donor liver, which can result in the death of the organ recipient. Various medical interventions (immunosuppressive regimen) are used either alone or in combination to prevent rejection. The combination of interventions used in the first few months after liver transplantation (induction immunosuppressive regimen) is often different from the combination used for the rest of the patient's life (maintenance immunosuppression). It is unclear which induction immunosuppressive regimen after liver transplantation is the most effective. 
The review authors collected and analysed all relevant research studies to answer this question and found 25 randomised clinical trials (studies in which participants are randomly assigned to one of two groups). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments simultaneously (usually referred to as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature search July 2019 
Key messages Only one of the 25 studies was conducted without flaws and most of the studies were small in terms of the number of participants included. Because of this, there is high or very high uncertainty in the obtained analysis results in this review. Overall, a drug called basiliximab may halve the number of deaths and graft failures in people who have had a liver transplant compared to the standard induction immunosuppressive regimen of glucocorticoids. 
The funding source was unclear in nine studies. Commercial organisations funded 14 of the studies. There were no concerns regarding the source of funding for the remaining two trials. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review studied adults of any sex, age, and ethnic origin, who underwent liver transplantation for various reasons. Participants were given different induction immunosuppressive agents or no induction immunosuppressive agents. The review authors excluded studies in people who underwent other organ transplants (such as kidney transplant) in addition to the liver, and studies in which people had already developed graft rejection. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 48 years to 62 years. The administered induction immunosuppressive groups included glucocorticosteroids, anti‐thymocyte globulin, basiliximab, or dacluzimab either alone or in combination with glucocorticosteroids. The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death, graft failure, quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, kidney failure, time to liver retransplantation, and graft rejections. 
What were the main results of the review? 
The 25 studies included a small number of participants in total (3271 participants). Study data were sparse. Twenty‐three studies with 3017 participants altogether provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of participants in the trials ranged from three to 76 months: the average follow‐up in the trials was 12 months. The review shows that: ‐ seven out of every 100 people died and 12 out of every 100 people developed graft failure; ‐ compared with the standard induction immunosuppression of glucocorticosteroids, basiliximab may halve the number of deaths and graft failure; however this information is based on small studies with flaws. Therefore, there is a lot of uncertainty about the effect of basiliximab; ‐ the evidence is uncertain about the effects of different induction immunosuppressants on other clinical outcomes, including graft rejections; ‐ none of the trials reported health‐related quality of life; ‐ future well‐designed trials are needed. 
