Radiotherapy administered externally for advanced hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer) 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of radiotherapy administered externally in people with advanced liver cancer compared with other available therapies or no therapy? 
Background 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (primary liver cancer) is the most common cancerous tumour of the liver and the sixth most common cancerous tumour worldwide. In the majority of people with hepatocellular carcinoma, the disease is diagnosed at the advanced stage. Treatment options for these people include ablation (which destroys the tumour), embolisation (the use of substances to block or decrease the flow of blood through the hepatic artery to the tumour), radiotherapy, or sorafenib, which is a targeted drug therapy (a treatment that uses a substance to identify and attack cancer cells while avoiding normal cells). 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature for randomised clinical trials (where people are allocated at random to one of two or more treatment groups) in order to perform an analysis of the role of radiotherapy administered externally for advanced liver cancer. We found nine randomised clinical trials including a total of 879 people with advanced liver cancer. All of the included trials were conducted in China. The average age in most of the included studies was around 52 years, and most trial participants were male. The average follow‐up duration ranged from one to three years. All trials were at high risk of bias, and we rated the evidence as low to very low quality. Most of the included trials compared combined radiotherapy and chemoembolisation versus chemoembolisation alone. We also identified seven ongoing randomised clinical trials. The evidence is current to October 2016. 
Key results 
When compared with chemoembolisation alone, combined radiotherapy plus chemoembolisation may be associated with fewer deaths and more tumour size reduction, despite being associated with an increased risk for non‐life‐threatening adverse effects such as a higher rise of bilirubin and alanine aminotransferase. 
