Treating unintentional hypothermia after surgery
Review question  We wanted to find out the effects of different methods of rewarming adult patients with unintentional hypothermia (a core body temperature below 36°C) after surgery. 
Background  Patients can get cold during surgery, particularly because of the drugs used as anaesthetics. This can cause potentially dangerous heart problems. Cold can also make patients shiver and feel uncomfortable after an operation. Different ways of rewarming patients after surgery have been developed, such as using thermal insulation (e.g. reflective blankets) and active warming (whereby heat is transferred directly from the device to the patient, e.g. electric blanket, heat lamp). 
Study characteristics  We looked at the evidence up to February 2014 and included 11 studies involving 699 participants. Ten studies provided data for analysis.The studies involved adults (over 18 years of age) who were undergoing routine or emergency surgery. We did not include studies in which patients were kept cold deliberately during the operation, were having head surgery or skin grafts or were under a local anaesthetic. We looked at studies comparing different rewarming methods versus each other or versus normal care (hospital blankets). 
Key results  We can be quite certain that temperature goes back to normal (between 36°C and 37.5°C) more than an hour faster when active warming methods are used to warm hypothermic patients than when hospital blankets are used, and that this result is important for people involved in the care of patients with hypothermia after surgery. Not enough evidence was found to show whether active warming methods provide other benefits or harms to patients. Some evidence suggests that forced air warming (one type of active warming) is better at rewarming patients than circulating hot water devices and radiant heaters (other types of active warming), but we do not know whether forced air warming is the best active warming method overall, as evidence on all methods of active warming was not available. 
There was not enough evidence to be certain if other ways of rewarming patients (such as reflective blankets) have benefits or harms for patients.  Quality of the evidence  Most of the evidence was moderate to low in quality. Methods used to assign patients to treatment groups were generally unclear or inadequate, and it was not possible to keep patients or people assessing patients unaware of the treatment given. This may have biased the results, but we are not sure what influence this could have had on the overall results. 
