Tube feeding (mainly via the nose into the stomach or directly into the stomach) in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We planned to review the evidence about the effects of tube feeding (via either the nose or the stomach) in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Cystic fibrosis is an inherited condition which causes damage to the lungs and pancreas (an organ needed to produce chemicals that help to digest food). People with cystic fibrosis often need more calories in order to achieve a good nutritional status because their condition means food is not absorbed well and they burn more energy at rest and when breathing than people who don't have cystic fibrosis. They also often have poor appetites. Supplements are often given via a tube which is either placed through the nose into the stomach (nasogastric feeding) or directly into the stomach (gastrostomy feeding)), often overnight but sometimes during the day too. This type of feeding helps to improve weight gain, nutritional status, lung function and may improve quality of life. This is important as it is known that in cystic fibrosis nutritional status is closely linked to lung function. However, tube feeding is expensive and may also impact on self‐esteem and body image. Tubes through the nose may also become dislodged by coughing. Tube feeding may also cause nausea, vomiting and diarrhoea, but these issues are usually resolved by either changing the type of feed, the rate of feeding or the way pancreatic enzymes are given. This is a final update of a previously published review. 
Search date 
We last searched for evidence on: 22 October 2018.
Study characteristics 
We found 44 trials in our searches, but none matched the design and duration of the trials we wanted to examine. We therefore did not include any trials in this review. 
Key results 
Ideally, more research is needed to compare tube feeding with oral supplements and with normal diet. New trials should also look at when tube feeding should be started for the best results. These trials may be difficult to run as it may be wrong not to provide people with the extra calories they need, and when they need them, in this way. 
