Cognitive rehabilitation for memory deficits after stroke
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effectiveness of cognitive rehabilitation for memory problems in people with stroke. 
Background 
People often struggle with memory problems following stroke and this can lead to difficulties in everyday life. The degree and kind of memory problems, mood changes, and performance of everyday activities can vary widely depending on many factors, including the location of the stroke in the brain, severity, age, and the previous health of the person experiencing a stroke. 
Memory rehabilitation, a part of cognitive rehabilitation, is a therapeutic activity that may play a role in the recovery of memory functions, or in enabling the individual to adapt to the problems. Memory rehabilitation is a standard part of rehabilitation in many settings. However, it is uncertain whether memory rehabilitation can improve people's memory problems, or whether it has an effect on mood, performance in everyday activities, or quality of life. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2016. In this review, we included 13 studies with 514 participants. Seven trials were conducted with community participants, four with in‐patients, and two with mixed community and in‐patient samples. Participants received various types of memory retraining techniques, including training using computer programs and training in the use of memory aids, such as diaries or calendars. In three studies treatment was provided in groups and in 10 studies treatment was provided individually. Treatment lasted between two weeks and 10 weeks. In these studies, those who received the treatment were compared with a control group. The control group included those who did not receive cognitive rehabilitation or received another form of treatment. The control groups varied. Some studies had a control group wherein people received their usual care, whereas in others individuals in the control groups were placed on a waiting list to receive cognitive rehabilitation. 
Key results 
We found that people who received cognitive rehabilitation reported fewer memory problems in daily life immediately after treatment compared with the control groups. This represents a small to moderate effect of the intervention in comparison to the control group. However, there was no evidence that the benefits persisted in the long term. We found no evidence that cognitive rehabilitation improved people's independence in activities of daily living, mood, or quality of life. There was no information about any harm caused to participants from taking part in cognitive rehabilitation. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence ranged from very low (effect on outcomes that relate to everyday activities) to moderate (effect on self‐reported memory problems, memory tests, and mood measures). There were a number of flaws in these studies, such as having very few people in them, and these could have affected our findings. 
