The combination of transcatheter arterial chemoembolisation and thermal ablation versus TACE alone for hepatocellular carcinoma 
Background 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (a common kind of liver cancer) is the sixth most common cancer in the world. Transcatheter arterial chemoembolisation (TACE) (injecting agents into the feeding vessels of the tumour to reduce the blood supply to the tumour and kill the tumour) is the most common therapy for hepatocellular carcinoma, but the clinical outcome is poor. In recent years, the combination of TACE plus thermal ablation (killing the tumour cell by producing heat or cold) has shown better efficacy than TACE alone. However, evidence to prove the beneficial or harmful effect of the combination of TACE with ablation for people with hepatocellular carcinoma is still lacking. 
Aim 
We aimed to assess the beneficial and harmful effects of the combination of TACE with thermal ablation versus TACE alone for hepatocellular carcinoma. 
Key results 
We considered 135 records eligible for full‐text screening. We excluded 21 of these records because the interventions used were outside the scope of our review or the studies were not randomised clinical trials. We listed the remaining 114 records, reporting on 114 studies, under studies awaiting classification because we could not be sure that these were randomised clinical trials from the information in the study paper. We could not obtain information on the registration of the study protocol for any of the 114 studies. We could not obtain information on study approval by regional research ethics committees, either from the study authors or through our own searches of trial registries. Corresponding authors did not respond to our enquiries about the design and conduct of the studies, except for one from whom we did not receive a satisfactory response. We also raised awareness of our concerns to editors of the journals that published the 114 studies, and we did not hear back with useful information. Moreover, there seemed to be inappropriate inclusion of trial participants, based on cancer stage and severity of liver disease, who should have obtained other interventions according to guidelines from learned societies. 
