Paracetamol for low back pain
Review question 
To see how well paracetamol works for non‐specific low back pain (LBP). Non‐specific LBP is back pain for which there is no identified disease or condition. 
Background 
Paracetamol is one of the most commonly prescribed medicines for people with LBP, and it is recommended in the guidelines that are issued to help doctors manage different illnesses. However, recent evidence has called into question how effective it is. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to August 2015.
Study characteristics 
We included two trials with a total of 1785 participants in this review with participants whose back pain occurred suddenly and recently (acute). Most of the people in the study (90%) were middle‐aged and came from a single trial that looked at acute back pain. Both trials tested paracetamol against a placebo (which contains nothing that could act as a medicine). Participants were followed between one day and 12 weeks. The main outcomes we studied were pain and disability; we also looked at quality of life, how easily people could go about their daily lives, unpleasant or unwanted side effects, how well people felt they had recovered, sleep quality, whether participants had taken the medicine as prescribed, and if it had been necessary to take ‘rescue medication’ because the paracetamol had not worked. We combined the findings from one trial (n=1651) into a single analysis (meta‐analysis) that compared paracetamol to a placebo; the second trial did not report the results for the placebo, and so it could not be included. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
We found high‐quality evidence that paracetamol (4 g per day) is no better than placebo for relieving acute LBP in either the short or longer term. It also worked no better than placebo on the other aspects studied, such as quality of life and sleep quality. About one in five people reported side effects, though few were serious, and there was no difference between intervention and control groups. As most of the participants studied were middle‐aged, we cannot be sure that the findings would be the same for other age groups. 
