Surgical interventions for treating fractures and non‐union of the collarbone
Background and aims 
Collarbone (middle third clavicle) fractures are a common injury and account for up to 4% of all fractures. Although the majority of acute (recent injury) fractures can be treated conservatively, for instance by using a sling, there are some types of fracture that need to be surgically treated. Non‐union of the collarbone, which results from failed fracture healing, is usually treated surgically when a person has pain and difficulties in using their shoulder. 
This review set out to evaluate the effects, primarily on pain and long‐term function, of different methods for surgically treating collarbone fractures and non‐union. 
Search results 
We searched the scientific literature up to 27 June 2014 and found seven relevant studies with 398 participants. The seven small studies had methodological limitations that may affect the reliability of their findings. The types of surgical fixation evaluated were dynamic compression plates, low‐contact dynamic compression plates, and intramedullary nails. Dynamic compression plates are screwed to the collarbone and apply pressure between the fractured ends; low‐contact dynamic compression plates are similar, but are designed to have less contact with the underlying bone. Some compression plates can be customised to the three‐dimensional contours of the bone before application. Unlike a compression plate, which is fixed to the external surface of the collarbone, an intramedullary nail is inserted into the bone's internal 'cavity' to span and stabilise the fracture. 
Key results 
Four poor quality studies compared intramedullary fixation with plate fixation in 160 people with acute collarbone fractures. Pooled data from three studies did not show a clinically important difference between the two types of surgery in upper arm function at long term follow‐up of six months or more. The studies found little difference between intramedullary fixation and plate fixation in pain, treatment failure resulting in non‐routine surgery or in time to fracture healing (three trials). Pooled data from all four studies indicated that fewer people had adverse events, such as infection or prominent or troublesome hardware, after intramedullary fixation but the converse result where fewer people had adverse events after plate fixation could not be ruled out. 
