Clonidine, lofexidine, and similar medications for the management of opioid withdrawal
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of alpha2‐adrenergic agonists (clonidine, lofexidine, guanfacine, and tizanidine) in managing withdrawal in people who are dependent on opioid drugs (for example heroin, methadone). 
Background 
Managed withdrawal, or detoxification, is a required first step for longer‐term treatments of opioid dependence. The combination of uncomfortable symptoms and intense craving makes completion of opioid withdrawal difficult for most people. For many years, the main approach to detoxification involved suppression of withdrawal with methadone and gradual reduction of the methadone dose. The use of methadone in this way has been limited by government restrictions on prescription of methadone and dislike of the drawn‐out nature of methadone withdrawal. Clonidine and similar medications (known as alpha2‐adrenergic agonists) offer an alternative approach. This review considered whether alpha2‐adrenergic agonists are more effective than reducing doses of methadone, and whether there are any differences in the effectiveness of different types of alpha2‐adrenergic agonist. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to November 2015.
Study characteristics 
We identified 26 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups), involving 1728 opioid‐dependent participants. The studies were undertaken in 12 different countries and involved treatment with an alpha2‐adrenergic agonist (clonidine, lofexidine, guanfacine, and in one study, tizanidine) compared with reducing doses of methadone (12 studies), placebo (six studies), or symptomatic medications (four studies). Five studies compared different alpha2‐adrenergic agonists. Treatment was scheduled to last for one to two weeks in most studies; the shortest duration was three days, and the longest was 30 days. 
Six studies received some financial support from a pharmaceutical company.
Key results 
Opioid withdrawal was similar with alpha2‐adrenergic agonists and reducing doses of methadone, but the duration of treatment was longer and there were fewer adverse effects with methadone. Withdrawal signs and symptoms occurred earlier with alpha2‐adrenergic agonists, within a few days of cessation of the opioid drugs. The chances of completing withdrawal treatment were similar. 
