Paracetamol (acetaminophen) alone, or in combination with codeine or dihydrocodeine, for neuropathic pain in adults 
Bottom line 
There is no good evidence to support or refute the suggestion that paracetamol alone, or in combination with codeine or dihydrocodeine, works in any neuropathic pain condition. 
Background 
Neuropathic pain is pain coming from damaged nerves. It is different from pain messages that are carried along healthy nerves from damaged tissue (e.g. a fall or cut, or arthritic knee). Neuropathic pain is often treated by different medicines (drugs) to those used for pain from damaged tissue, which we often think of as painkillers. Medicines that are sometimes used to treat depression or epilepsy (fits) can be very effective in some people with neuropathic pain. But sometimes paracetamol is used to treat neuropathic pain, either by itself or with the opioid painkillers codeine or dihydrocodeine. 
Paracetamol has been widely available for over 50 years. There is evidence it works as a painkiller in some short‐lived pains, but it does not appear to work well for long lasting pains. We do not really know how it works. Paracetamol is commonly used combined with opioid drugs. 
Opioid painkillers are drugs like morphine. Morphine is derived from plants, but many opioids are also made in a laboratory rather than being extracted from plants. Codeine and dihydrocodeine are often combined with paracetamol. 
Study characteristics 
In July 2016, we searched for clinical trials where paracetamol alone, or in combination with codeine or dihydrocodeine, was used to treat neuropathic pain in adults. We found no studies that met our requirements for the review. 
Key results 
Because there were no studies that could answer the questions in a reliable way, we cannot say whether paracetamol alone, or in combination with codeine or dihydrocodeine, works for chronic neuropathic pain. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence as very low because there were no studies. Very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the impact of paracetamol alone, or in combination with codeine or dihydrocodeine, in any neuropathic pain condition. 
