Antifibrinolytics (tranexamic acid and epsilon‐aminocaproic acid) to prevent bleeding in people with low platelets due to bone marrow failure 
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence about whether giving antifibrinolytics (tranexamic acid or epsilon‐aminocaproic acid) to people with a low platelet count prevents bleeding and whether these antifibrinolytics are associated with side effects. Our target population was people with haematological disorders who have a low platelet count and would usually be treated with platelet transfusions. We did not include people with immune thrombocytopenia because they are not usually treated with platelet transfusions. 
Background 
People with haematological (blood) cancers and other blood disorders (for example, aplastic anaemia) are frequently at risk of severe or life‐threatening bleeding from having low platelet counts (thrombocytopenia). This may be from bone marrow failure due to an underlying blood disorder but also from the toxic effect of treatment (chemotherapy) on the bone marrow. These people can be given prophylactic platelet transfusions (from donations) to prevent bleeding if their own platelet counts are too low. These transfusions are not without risks, ranging from mild reactions like fevers to more serious, or even life‐threatening, consequences such as infections transmitted to the patient from the transfused platelets, despite stringent attempts to prevent this. 
Clearly, ways to safely prevent bleeding in people with thrombocytopenia whilst also minimising exposure to transfused platelets would be welcome. One possible way of achieving these goals is the use of antifibrinolytics, known as lysine analogues: tranexamic acid (TXA) and epsilon aminocaproic acid (EACA). These medications help to stabilise the clots that form after bleeding, therefore reducing the chances of further bleeding as well as the need for transfusing platelets. There may be risks associated with the use of TXA and EACA; the most important being an increased risk of forming unwanted blood clots (such as deep vein thrombosis (DVT), which could be potentially life‐threatening. 
