Cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy monitoring for prevention of brain injury in very preterm infants 
Review question  To determine the benefits and harms of continuous non‐invasive estimation of the oxygen levels of the brain tissue by near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) on mortality and later development in infants born more than 8 weeks preterm. 
Background  Babies born more than 8 weeks before term are at risk of brain injury and developmental impairment. NIRS enables the oxygen content of the brain tissue to be measured continuously by emitting different light waves in the near‐infrared range into the tissue and measuring the reflected light intensity a few inches away from the light source. It has been proposed that avoiding very low or very high oxygen levels in the brain could be beneficial in these small infants. 
Study characteristics 
In evidence current to September 2016, we found one trial that primarily tested if brain oxygenation can be stabilised by combining NIRS measurements of the brain with a treatment guideline on how to intervene when the brain oxygenation is outside the normal range. The 166 infants included were born more than 12 weeks before term. They were monitored during the first three days of life. The study was funded by government agency, and we found that the methods used in trial were as good as possible. 
Key results  The single trial we found showed a large and significant difference in brain oxygenation between the experimental group and the control group. Low oxygenation was far more common in the control group. It did not, however, find that monitoring with NIRS reduces mortality or the occurrence of the most common complications of very preterm birth, i.e. intracranial bleedings, chronic lung disease, damage of the intestines (necrotising enterocolitis), and blindness (retinopathy of prematurity). 
The NIRS monitoring did not cause serious harm, but skin marks from the NIRS sensor were seen in about 1 in 10 patients. 
Quality of evidence  The accrued information size with one small randomised trial is too small to conclude anything about the benefits and harms of cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy in preterm infants. Thus further studies are needed. 
