Severe fatigue after treatment for childhood cancer
Review question 
We reviewed the literature to determine how common (prevalence) severe fatigue is in patients after treatment for childhood cancer. We also wanted to describe the course of severe fatigue after completion of cancer treatment, and to identify possible risk factors for the development of fatigue in this population. 
Background 
Treatments for childhood cancer are improving and becoming more effective in curing cancer. The impact of having had cancer at a young age, together with often intensive cancer therapy, can affect physical and mental well‐being later in life. Most survivors will develop one or more of these so‐called late effects. Severe fatigue is a common late effect in people with adult‐onset cancer and can affect a person's daily life in many ways. We do not currently know how often severe fatigue occurs after treatment for childhood cancer, nor which risk factors might be responsible for developing fatigue. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is up to date to March 2019.
We include 30 studies, describing 18,682 participants after treatment for childhood cancer. We found a lot of variation between studies in cancer diagnosis, cancer treatment, age of participants, the questionnaires used to assess fatigue, and the size of the study. 
Key results 
Eighteen studies reported a prevalence of severe fatigue, which ranged from 0% to 61.7%. Four studies reported a prevalence of severe fatigue in the patient's brothers and sisters or in population‐based controls. Prevalence rates in these control groups ranged from 3.1% to 10.3%. In these four studies, survivors were more often fatigued than controls. This difference was only significant in two studies. 
When we looked at the prevalence of severe fatigue in survivors of lymphoma and leukaemia (types of blood cancers), we found that they ranged from 1.8% to 35.9%. Two studies reported on severe fatigue in brain cancer survivors, with rates of 21.13% and 14.6%. One study in bone cancer survivors reported no cases of severe fatigue. For survivors aged 18 and younger, prevalence rates ranged from 6.7% to 12.5%. By contrast, in studies including participants aged 16 years and over (but mostly over 18), prevalence rates ranged from 4.4% to 61.7%. 
Twenty‐two studies assessed one or more possible risk factors for fatigue. Our review shows that depression might increase fatigue. The age at cancer diagnosis and the education level of the survivor did not seem to influence fatigue. 
Only one study provided information about the course of fatigue over time, and found that over the course of 2.7 years 32 of the 102 participants (31.4%) reported persistent severe fatigue. 
Quality of the evidence 
All included studies had problems with the quality of the evidence, and we found many differences between studies for several characteristics. The evidence to address our review question is therefore weak. The occurrence of severe fatigue after treatment for childhood cancer remains uncertain. This is also the case for the course of severe fatigue after completion of cancer treatment and the risk factors that might be responsible for developing fatigue. 
