Ezetimibe for the prevention of heart disease and death
Review question 
Is taking ezetimibe safe and does it prevent heart disease and death?
Background 
Heart disease remains the leading cause of death worldwide, and controlling lipid levels is one of the most effective strategies for preventing heart disease. The use of statins is the preferred treatment strategy for the prevention of heart disease, but some people at high risk of heart disease are intolerant to statins or with a poor response to statin therapy. Ezetimibe is a non‐statin drug that can reduce the blood lipids levels by inhibiting cholesterol absorption, but whether it has beneficial effects on heart disease and death remains uncertain. 
Study characteristics 
This evidence is current up to July 2018. We included 26 studies involving 23,499 participants. These studies assessed the effects of ezetimibe plus other lipid‐lowering drugs versus lipid‐lowering drugs alone for heart disease. The participants were adults, and most of them had been diagnosed with coronary heart disease. 
Key results 
Ezetimibe with statins probably reduces the risk for combined outcome of death due to heart disease, heart attack or stroke, but the benefit is moderate. However, adding ezetimibe to statin or fenofibrate have little or no effect on death from any cause. Treatment with ezetimibe and statin probably reduces the risk for non‐fatal heart attacks and non‐fatal stroke. Adding ezetimibe to statin or fenofibrate probably have little or no effect on heart‐related death. Ezetimibe with statins might reduce the need for coronary revascularisation (the restoration of an adequate blood supply to the heart) by means of surgery. 
In terms of safety, we do not have enough evidence to know whether ezetimibe increases or decreases side‐effects (e.g. liver injury, muscle pain, cancer, gallbladder‐related disease and discontinuation). The analysis of blood lipids revealed that the addition of ezetimibe statin or fenofibrate therapy might further reduce the levels of blood lipids, including low‐density lipoprotein cholesterol ('bad' cholesterol), total cholesterol and triglycerides, and likely increased the level of high‐density lipoprotein cholesterol ('good' cholesterol). None of the included studies reported on health‐related quality of life. There is a lack of evidence supporting the use of ezetimibe monotherapy for the prevention of heart disease, and this topic requires further investigation. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of evidence ranged from high to very low across the outcomes.
