Surgical approaches for dislocations of the neck bones
The part of the back bone found in the neck is called the cervical spine. It consists of seven bones (or vertebrae). The relative movement of these vertebrae is mainly via small joints (called facet joints) located between each vertebrae. The facet joints in the cervical spine facilitate good movement of the neck, but they are vulnerable to dislocation. Typically, cervical spine facet dislocations are caused by high‐energy traumas such as road traffic accidents or violent attacks. Approximately half of people with such dislocations sustain an injury to the spinal cord carried within the spine. This can result in significant impairment of function (e.g. paralysis). Surgery is usually needed for these serious injuries in order to keep the neck bones in place. 
What are the different surgical approaches?  There are two main stages to surgery: reduction and fixation. Reduction is the restoration of an injured or dislocated bone or joint to its normal anatomical position, and can be achieved either with surgery or through closed reduction, which is performed with traction or manipulation. Fixation is the medical procedure used to stabilise one or more joints, or a fractured bone, usually by surgically inserting devices such as wires, screws, plates and rods. Fixation of the injury is generally accomplished by either an anterior or posterior surgical approach. With an anterior cervical approach the surgery is performed through an incision over the front surface of the neck, while the posterior cervical approach consists of a lengthwise midline incision over the back part of the neck and dissection through muscle to the cervical vertebrae. This approach gives direct access to the dislocated facet joints. 
Description of the studies included in the review  We searched the medical literature until May 2014 and found two relevant studies that included a total of 94 adults with cervical spine facet dislocations. One trial included individuals with spinal cord injuries and the other included individuals without spinal cord injuries. Both studies compared the anterior versus posterior surgical approach. 
Quality of the evidence  The two studies were small and both were at high risk of bias. We therefore judged the quality of the evidence to be very low. 
Summary of the evidence  Neither study found differences between the two approaches in neurological status and pain at one year. One study also found no differences between the two approaches in patient‐reported quality of life. Although one study found that the anterior approach resulted in more normal curvature of the neck, the other study reported finding no difference between the two approaches with regard to the alignment of the neck vertebrae. The evidence was insufficient to indicate differences between the two approaches in medical adverse events, rates of instrumentation failure and infection. Although over half (11) of 20 people in the anterior approach group in one study had voice and swallowing disorders, these all resolved by three months. 
