Exercise as treatment for adults with chronic fatigue syndrome
What is the aim of this review? 
People with chronic fatigue syndrome have long‐lasting fatigue, joint pain, headaches, sleep problems, poor concentration and short‐term memory. These symptoms cause significant disability and distress. We wanted to find out whether exercise therapy can help people with chronic fatigue syndrome (myalgic encephalomyelitis). 
Key messages 
People who have exercise therapy probably have less fatigue at the end of treatment than those who receive more passive therapies. We are uncertain if this improvement lasts in the long term. We are also uncertain about the risk of serious side effects from exercise therapy. 
What was studied in the review? 
We explored whether exercise therapy can reduce chronic fatigue syndrome symptoms. We searched for studies comparing the effect of exercise therapy with treatment as usual or other therapies. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found eight studies with 1518 participants. The studies compared participants who received exercise therapy to participants who received treatment as usual or more active treatments such as cognitive behavioural therapy. 
Participants had exercise therapy for 12 weeks to 26 weeks. The studies measured the effect of the therapy at the end of the treatment and also long term, after 50 or 72 weeks. Participants exercised at different levels of intensity using variations of aerobic exercising such as walking, swimming or cycling. 
Exercise therapy compared to treatment as usual or relaxation 
Participants who have exercise therapy probably have less fatigue at the end of treatment, and they may have moderately better physical functioning. We are uncertain if these improvements last long term because we are very uncertain about the evidence. 
Participants who have exercise therapy may have slightly better sleep, both at the end of treatment and long term. 
We are uncertain about the risk of serious side effects and the effects of exercise therapy on pain, quality of life, and depression. This is because we lack evidence or because we are very uncertain about the evidence. 
Exercise therapy compared to cognitive behavioural therapy 
Exercise therapy may make little or no difference to participants’ fatigue at end of treatment or in the long term. Exercise therapy may make little or no difference to participants’ physical functioning at end of treatment, but the long‐term effect on physical functioning is uncertain. 
No studies looked at the effect of exercise therapy on depression at the end of treatment, but it probably has little or no long‐term effect. 
We are uncertain about the risk of side effects. We are also uncertain about the effects on pain, quality of life, or sleep. This is because we lack evidence or because we are very uncertain about the evidence. 
Exercise therapy compared to adaptive pacing (living within limits) 
Participants who have exercise therapy may have slightly less fatigue and depressive symptoms and slightly better physical functioning and sleep at the end of treatment and long term than participants who have adaptive pacing. 
We are uncertain about the risk of serious side effects. We are also uncertain about the effect on quality of life or pain. This is because we lack evidence or we are very uncertain about the evidence. 
Exercise therapy compared to antidepressants 
We are uncertain if exercise therapy is better than antidepressants at reducing fatigue. We are also uncertain of its effect on depression, side effects, pain, physical functioning, quality of life or sleep. This is because we lack evidence or we are very uncertain about the evidence. 
