The liver produces bile which has many functions, including elimination of waste processed by the liver and digestion of fat. The bile is temporarily stored in the gallbladder (an organ situated underneath the liver) before it reaches the small bowel. Concretions in the gallbladder are called gallstones. Gallstones are present in about 5% to 25% of the adult western population. Between 2% and 4% become symptomatic in a year. The symptoms include pain related to the gallbladder (biliary colic), inflammation of the gallbladder (cholecystitis), obstruction to the flow of bile from the liver and gallbladder into the small bowel resulting in jaundice (yellowish discolourisation of the body usually most prominently noticed in the white of the eye, which turns yellow), bile infection (cholangitis), and inflammation of the pancreas, an organ which secretes digestive juices and harbours the insulin secreting cells which maintain blood sugar level (pancreatitis). Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is currently considered the best treatment option for patients with symptomatic gallstones. This is generally performed by key‐hole surgery (laparoscopic cholecystectomy). Drain is a tube that is left inside the tummy to allow drainage of fluids to outside the tummy. Some surgeons have routinely drained after laparoscopic cholecystectomy because of the fear of collection of bile or blood requiring re‐operation. As the name indicates, the drain may drain out these collections to the exterior, thereby avoiding open surgery. However, routine use of drains may necessitate the patient to stay overnight or require drain removal after discharge both of which increase resource utilisation in this era of day surgery (where patients are admitted and discharged on the same day of surgery). The review authors set out to determine whether it is preferable to use routine drainage after laparoscopic cholecystectomy. A systematic search of medical literature was performed in order to identify studies which provided information on the above question. The authors obtained information from randomised trials only since such types of trials provide the best information if conducted well. Two authors independently identified the trials and collected the information. 