Terlipressin versus other vasoactive drugs for hepatorenal syndrome
Background 
Hepatorenal syndrome is a type of renal (relating to the kidneys) failure occurring in people with severe liver disease and fluid in the abdomen (ascites). We do not fully understand why some people with liver disease develop hepatorenal syndrome, but it is generally believed that low blood pressure and reduced blood supply to the kidneys is one of the main reasons. Theoretically, drugs that increase the blood pressure may be beneficial. The drug terlipressin combined with albumin (a protein) infusion is the recommended treatment for people with hepatorenal syndrome according to guidelines. Some countries (e.g. the USA) have not approved the use of terlipressin and researchers have suggested that other vasoactive drugs may be used instead. 
Review question 
Is terlipressin more beneficial or safe than other vasoactive drugs for the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome? 
Search date 
November 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included 10 clinical trials with 474 participants. Seven trials compared terlipressin and albumin versus noradrenaline and albumin. The remaining three trials compared terlipressin and albumin versus midodrine and octreotide, or octreotide alone, or dopamine. In total, 241 participants received terlipressin and 233 participants received other vasoactive drugs (drugs that change blood pressure; noradrenaline, octreotide, midodrine, or dopamine). 
Study funding sources 
In five trials, investigators specifically stated that they did not receive funding from organisations that could profit from the trial results. We did not have information about the funding source from the remaining five trials. 
Key results 
Our analyses found uncertain evidence to support or refute terlipressin versus other vasoactive drugs in the treatment of hepatorenal syndrome when evaluating mortality or serious side effects. Our analyses suggested that treatment with terlipressin may have a beneficial effect on hepatorenal syndrome by reducing the number of participants with persistent hepatorenal syndrome. Additional analyses showed that the number of participants in the trials was too small for us to be sure about this. Accordingly, we found that important differences between terlipressin and other vasoactive drugs may be overlooked. 
