Services for patients discharged home early
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out if providing early discharge hospital at home improves patient health outcomes and reduces costs to the health service, compared with in‐hospital care. 
Key messages 
Compared with in‐hospital care, early discharge hospital at home probably makes little or no difference to patient health outcomes or being readmitted to hospital, and probably reduces hospital length of stay and the chance of being admitted to an institution such as a care home. Patients who receive care at home might be more satisfied with the care received. The effect on health service costs is uncertain. 
What was studied in this review? 
One way to deal with the demand for hospital beds is to reduce hospital length of stay by discharging people early to receive health care at home. We systematically reviewed the literature on the effect of providing early discharge hospital at home services. These services are usually provided by a team of healthcare professionals, such as doctors, nurses and physiotherapists. The team visits the homes of people who have been discharged early to provide them with acute hospital care in their homes. We were interested in assessing the impact of early discharge hospital at home had on patient health outcomes and health service costs. This is an update of a Cochrane Review. 
What are the main results of this review? The review authors found 32 studies, six of which are new for this update. In total, 4746 people from twelve countries participated in those studies. The intervention was mainly delivered by hospital outreach services and community‐based services. Most of the studies were well designed and conducted. The studies looked at the effect of these services in patients with different types of conditions: patients who had a stroke, older patients with different types of medical conditions and patients who had surgery. These studies show that, when compared to in‐hospital care, early discharge hospital at home services probably make little or no difference to patient health outcomes or being readmitted to hospital, yet probably decreases hospital length of stay. Patients who receive care at home might be more satisfied and less likely to be admitted to institutional care. There is little evidence of cost savings to the healthcare system of discharging patients home early to hospital at home care. 
How up to date is the review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to 9 January 2017.
