Metoclopramide for accurate placement of naso‐enteral feeding tube
Background 
When a person is unwell and is unable to eat (or to eat enough), the lack of nutrition can be a serious obstacle to recovery. In these circumstances, feeding through a feeding tube that enters through the nose and passes through the stomach to the small intestine beyond (a post‐pyloric naso‐enteral feeding tube), is an option. 
Review question 
Once the feeding tube has entered the digestive system, placing the feeding tube into the small intestine rather than the stomach is difficult. Metoclopramide (which is also an anti‐sickness medication), increases the rate at which the stomach empties, and has tested as a therapy to determine whether it assists with placement of post‐pyloric naso‐enteral feeding tubes. 
Use of metoclopramide is controversial, as it may cause harms (adverse reactions), which may be serious and may include an irreversible neurological condition that can be caused by prolonged use, or high doses of metoclopramide. 
Study characteristics 
We originally searched for clinical trials in 2002; and again in 2008 and 2014. We identified four studies that investigated the use of metoclopramide in placement of post‐pyloric naso‐enteral feeding tubes. The trials included a total of 204 adult participants; 108 participants were treated with metoclopramide, and 96 were given a placebo or no treatment. All four studies were done in hospitals in the USA. The number of participants included in the trials varied from 105 to 10. 
The trials were all performed before 1995. They were all small, and examined two different doses of metoclopramide (10 mg and 20 mg), delivered in two different ways (intravenously, and injected into muscle). The way in which they were conducted and reported was poor. 
Key results 
Analysis of the four trials revealed that metoclopramide did not have a clear beneficial on the placement of post‐pyloric naso‐enteral feeding tubes. No harms (adverse reactions) were reported, though it was not clear how thoroughly the people running the trials recorded them. No costs of treatment were reported. 
