Treatments to prevent hand skin irritation in the workplace
Review question 
In this review, we set out to assess the available evidence on the effect of barrier creams, moisturisers, gloves, and educational programmes for employees who are at risk of developing irritation of the skin on the hands. We found nine studies. None of them investigated protective gloves. The evidence in this review is current to 17 January 2018. 
Background 
Occupational irritant hand dermatitis (OIHD) is a skin disease that occurs on the hands of employees in certain jobs. The first signs are red and scaly patches in the finger webs and on the knuckle area of the hands. Itchy blisters, painful cracks, and possibly infection are common, and eventually the skin becomes thickened. 
Hand skin irritation can affect employees who regularly come into contact with water, detergents, chemicals, and other irritants, or who wear gloves during their working day. People at particular risk include hairdressers, nurses, cleaners, builders, and people who work in the dye, printing, metal, and food industries. The condition is relatively common and affects about 5 to 20 out of 10,000 full‐time workers per year. Preventing OIHD from developing is important because it is difficult to clear once it starts. 
Study characteristics 
We included nine studies in this review, involving 2888 male and female workers aged between 16 and 67. The studies included several types of workers: metal workers, dye and print factory workers, gut cleaners in swine slaughterhouses, cleaners and kitchen workers, hospital employees, and hairdressing apprentices. We were unable to find out whether or not the preventive measures were equally effective in all these professions because there were too few trials. The studies lasted from four weeks up to three years. 
Key results 
Some of the preventive measures may reduce the risk of hand skin irritations. However, there were too few studies to be sure of this. The studies were too different from each other to combine in a meaningful way, and the results were too imprecise. Our results are therefore still debatable. 
Various barrier creams, moisturisers, and skin protection education programs were investigated. It is possible that barrier creams may slightly reduce the risk of developing OIHD. This result was based on four studies. In these studies, 29% of people who applied barrier creams developed hand skin irritations. In the control group, who did not apply barrier creams, 33% developed hand skin irritations. The results of three studies showed that moisturisers may reduce the risk of developing OIHD by a useful amount. Thirteen per cent of the people who used moisturisers developed hand skin irritations, compared to 19% of those who did not use moisturisers. Two studies showed that using a combination of barrier creams and moisturisers may reduce the risk of developing OIHD by a useful amount. Eight per cent of the people who used moisturisers and barrier creams developed hand skin irritations, compared to 13% of the control group. Based on three studies, we are uncertain whether skin protection education reduces the risk of developing OIHD. In these studies, 21% of the people who received skin protection education developed hand skin irritations, compared to 28% of the people in the control group. 
The safety and tolerability of these measures were not systematically addressed in these studies. However, no serious reactions to the treatments were reported. Mild reactions like itching or reddening of the skin were reported for only few people who applied the barrier creams or moisturisers. The measures to prevent hand skin irritations probably cause only few or no serious adverse effects. 
