Interventions for managing taste disturbances
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out what is the best method for the management of zinc‐deficient/idiopathic (of unknown cause) taste disorders and taste disorders secondary to chronic renal failure in children and adults. 
Key messages 
Giving zinc supplements or acupuncture may have some benefit in treating taste disorders. However, we still need more high‐quality studies to ascertain the role of zinc supplements and acupuncture in treating taste disorders. 
What was studied in the review? 
The sense of taste is essential to the health and psychological well‐being of an individual. Taste disorders can range from lack of taste, to distortion of taste, to reduced ability to taste. Any disorder in taste perception can lead to conditions like malnutrition and consumption of poisonous food substances. The cause may be due to disease, drugs, radiation treatment, or ageing; or it may result from unknown causes. 
Various treatment methods have been used to improve taste sensation. These include the use of zinc compounds, pilocarpine, alpha lipoic acid, transcranial magnetic stimulation, ginkgo biloba and acupuncture. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 10 trials in which a total of 581 subjects received different treatments. Nine trials assessed the benefits of zinc compounds and one trial assessed the effects of acupuncture. We only included studies on taste disorders in this review that were either idiopathic, or resulting from zinc deficiency or chronic renal failure. 
Two trials were from Germany, three from Japan, two from the UK, and three from the US. These studies compared zinc with placebo or acupuncture with sham procedure for patients with taste disorders. Two were government funded, three were privately funded, two were funded by a pharmaceutical company and three trials did not mention funding details. 
When patients with taste disorders are given zinc, compared to placebo:
‐ we found very low‐quality evidence that was insufficient to conclude on the role of zinc supplements to improve taste acuity reported by patients and very low‐quality evidence that zinc supplements improve taste acuity in patients with zinc deficiency/idiopathic taste disorders; ‐ zinc supplementation showed adverse events like eczema, nausea, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, constipation, decrease in blood iron, increase in blood alkaline phosphatase and minor increase in blood triglycerides; ‐ no studies were found that looked at improvement in taste discrimination or quality of life. 
When patients with taste disorders are given acupuncture, compared to sham procedure:
‐ we found very low‐quality evidence that is not sufficient to conclude on the role of acupuncture for improving taste discrimination in cases of idiopathic dysgeusia (distortion of taste) and hypogeusia (reduced ability to taste); ‐ acupuncture trial did not show adverse events; ‐ no studies were found that looked at improvement in taste acuity or quality of life. 
We were unable to draw any conclusions regarding the superiority of zinc supplements or acupuncture as none of the trials compared these interventions. 
