Etrolizumab for the treatment of active ulcerative colitis
What is ulcerative colitis?  Ulcerative colitis is a long‐term (chronic) inflammatory bowel disease. Symptoms include pain (abdominal cramping), a frequent need to defecate (fecal urgency) and bloody diarrhoea. When people with ulcerative colitis are experiencing symptoms the disease is said to be "active" and when symptoms stop this is called "remission". 
What is etrolizumab?  Etrolizumab is a biologic medication. This medication is either injected under the skin with a syringe or infused into a vein (intravenous). Biologics suppress the immune system and lessen the inflammation associated with ulcerative colitis. 
What did the researchers investigate?  The researchers investigated whether etrolizumab can stop symptoms of ulcerative colitis in people with active disease, and whether this medication causes harm (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to March 12, 2015. 
What did the researchers find?  The researchers identified two studies that included a total of 172 participants with moderate to severe ulcerative colitis who have failed treatment with immunosuppressives (e.g. steroids) or another biologic drug. Both studies compared etrolizumab to placebo (a fake medicine). Both studies were of high quality. The smaller study (48 participants) found no difference in remission rates between etrolizumab and placebo at week 10. The larger study (124 participants) found no difference between etrolizumab and placebo in the proportion of participants who achieved remission at week 6. However, there was a statistically meaningful difference in remission rates at week 10 favoring etrolizumab over placebo. In the larger study (124 participants) placebo participants were significantly more likely to have at least one side effect compared to those who took etrolizumab. Common side effects in this study included worsening ulcerative colitis, nasopharyngitis (common cold), nervous system disorders, headache and arthralgia (joint pain). In the other study (48 participants) there was no difference in the side effect rates between the placebo and etrolizumab groups. Common side effects in this study included worsening of ulcerative colitis, headache, fatigue (tiredness), abdominal pain, dizziness, nasopharyngitis (common cold), nausea, arthralgia (joint pain) and urinary tract infection. There was no meaningful difference between etrolizumab and placebo in the proportion of patients who experienced serious side effects. Serious side effects included worsening of ulcerative colitis and infection. 
