Surgery or non‐surgical treatment for broken heel bones
Fractures or breaks of the heel bone mostly involve a joint within the heel. These injuries can be difficult to treat and manage. This injury typically occurs in young adults after a fall from a height. Heel fractures are painful and cause significant disability because they prevent weight‐bearing for many weeks after injury. These fractures restrict physical activity, delay return to work and usual activities, and can have other consequences, such as being unable to wear the same shoes as before injury. 
Treatment of heel fractures can be broadly divided into surgical or non‐surgical (conservative) management. Surgery involves a procedure where a plate and screws are inserted into the heel to stabilise the broken bones. This is usually followed by a period of non‐weight bearing of six to eight weeks. Non‐surgical treatment initially involves leg elevation, ice and plaster cast splints and then gradual introduction of non‐weight bearing mobilisation for six to eight weeks. Currently, there is no consensus over which is the best management strategy for patients. 
This review included four studies (602 participants) that have looked at the results of surgery compared with non‐surgical treatment for people who have had a heel fracture. The strongest evidence comes from one large multi‐centre Canadian trial that recruited 424 participants. The remaining studies were small. All four studies had weaknesses in their design, conduct and reporting. 
Based mainly on the results from the largest study, the review found no strong evidence of differences between surgical and non‐surgical treatment in functional ability, including walking, and quality of life, at three years after treatment. From two small studies, there is some evidence that participants having surgery were more likely to return to work more quickly. However, those having surgery were more likely to have a major complication such as surgical site infection after treatment. Conversely, those having surgery were less likely to have joint fusion surgery because they had developed arthritis later on. 
