Treating long‐lasting blepharitis (swollen and itchy eyelids): how well do antibiotics (medicines that kill bacteria) work when taken by mouth (orally)? 
Key messages· We did not find enough evidence to show how well antibiotics taken by mouth can treat long‐lasting blepharitis. 
· One antibiotic tested may improve some clinical aspects (symptoms and course of the disease), but we are uncertain about its benefit in this respect, and it may also cause a higher number of unwanted effects. 
· More studies are needed to find out how well antibiotics taken by mouth can treat long‐lasting blepharitis. 
What is blepharitis?Blepharitis is a common condition affecting the eyes. It causes swelling and redness on the edges of the eyelids, making them feel sore, and an itching or a gritty feeling in the eyes. The most common causes of blepharitis are infection by a type of bacteria that lives on the surface of the eye, or skin conditions such as dermatitis. 
How is blepharitis treated?Blepharitis is usually treated by regularly cleaning the eyelids, or using a cream or eye drops containing an antibiotic (a type of medicine that kills bacteria). If these do not work, then taking antibiotics by mouth (orally) is often tried. However, there are no guidelines about which type of antibiotic to give, what dose to use, or how long treatment should last. 
What did we want to find out?We wanted to find out how well antibiotics given by mouth can treat long‐lasting blepharitis. 
What did we do?We searched for studies that tested antibiotics given by mouth to treat long‐lasting blepharitis. 
What did we find?We found 2 studies in 220 adults with long‐lasting blepharitis. One study took place in the USA and lasted for three months; it tested the antibiotic doxycycline compared to placebo treatment (a 'dummy' treatment that does not contain any medicine but looks identical to the medicine being tested). The other study took place in South Korea and tested the effects of high or low doses of doxycycline compared to placebo treatment. 
One study was funded by a pharmaceutical company; the other study did not report a source of funding. The studies measured results of treatment in different ways, so it was not possible to combine the studies' results to analyse them together. 
What are the main results of our review?We are uncertain about the effects of doxycycline on symptoms such as itching, burning, and watery eyes, as evaluated by people taking part in the studies. 
