Bispectral index (BIS) for improving intraoperative awareness and early postoperative recovery in adults 
Background 
During surgery under general anaesthesia, the anaesthetist will adjust the amount of anaesthetic drugs to ensure that the patient remains unconscious. This adjustment is made according to clinical signs, such as the patient's heart rate or blood pressure, or end‐tidal anaesthetic gas (ETAG) for anaesthesia that is given as a gas, which is a measure of the amount of remaining gas after the patient breathes out. However, using these methods alone may increase the chance that the patient is given too little or too much anaesthetic. Intraoperative awareness, a distressing event in which a patient may become conscious enough to recall events during surgery, is very rare and may be caused by too little anaesthetic. Too much anaesthetic may lead to a longer time needed to reach full recovery. Bispectral index (BIS) is a measurement scale based on the electrical activity in the brain, and by using a monitor of brain activity during anaesthesia, the anaesthetist may use this scale to inform the amount of anaesthesia to give to the patient. 
This is an update of a review which was previously published in 2014.
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 26 March 2019. We found 52 studies with 41,331 participants. Six studies are awaiting classification (because we did not have sufficient information to assess them), and two studies are ongoing. All studies included people having surgery under general anaesthesia. Three studies included only people who were at high risk of intraoperative awareness, and two studies included only people who were not selected according to high risk of intraoperative awareness. Forty‐eight studies compared BIS‐guided anaesthesia with anaesthesia guided by clinical signs, and six studies compared BIS‐guided anaesthesia with ETAG‐guided anaesthesia. 
Key results 
We found low‐certainty evidence that BIS‐guided anaesthesia may reduce the risk of intraoperative awareness. However, events were rare and only five of 27 studies reported incidences. When BIS‐guided anaesthesia was used, we found three per 1000 fewer incidences of intraoperative awareness compared to nine per 1000 incidences when anaesthesia was guided by clinical signs. In addition, we found low‐certainty evidence that BIS may improve recovery ‐ the time for people to open their eyes was less, as was the time for orientation, and the time to be discharged from the post‐anaesthesia care unit. 
We found no evidence of a difference in incidences of intraoperative awareness according to whether anaesthesia was guided by BIS or by ETAG, although, again, there were few incidences of awareness (1 per 1000 in each group). Only one study that compared BIS with ETAG‐guided anaesthesia measured recovery times; this low‐certainty evidence showed that discharge from the postanaesthesia care unit was earlier if anaesthesia was BIS‐guided. No studies that compared BIS with ETAG‐guided anaesthesia measured the time to eye opening or the time to orientation. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We used GRADE to downgrade the evidence for all outcomes to low certainty. The incidence of intraoperative awareness is so rare and, even though we found some large studies, we concluded that the evidence was still imprecise. In addition, we judged many studies to have limitations because of high or unclear risks of bias. For example, all of the anaesthetists were aware of using an additional BIS monitor and we could not be certain how this affected the anaesthetists' standard practice. 
In addition, we noted that some studies did not report a clear definition of intraoperative awareness. Time points of measurement differed, and the methods used to identify intraoperative awareness also differed and we expected that some assessment tools were more comprehensive than others. 
