Interventions for leg cramps during pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Leg cramps are experienced as sudden, intense involuntary contractions of the leg muscles. They are a common problem in pregnancy, especially in the third trimester. They are painful and can interfere with daily activities, disrupt sleep, and reduce quality of life. Various interventions have been used during pregnancy to treat leg cramps, including drug, electrolyte (magnesium, calcium, sodium) and vitamin therapies, and non‐drug therapies such as muscle stretching. 
Why is this important? 
The goal of this review was to find out what is effective and safe for treating leg cramps during pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in September 2019 and identified eight randomised controlled studies, with a total of 576 women who were 14 to 36 weeks pregnant, comparing either magnesium, calcium, calcium‐vitamin D or vitamin B with placebo or no treatment, and comparing vitamin C with calcium. All treatments were given as tablets to be chewed or swallowed. 
Magnesium supplements may reduce how often women experienced leg cramps when compared with placebo or no treatment, although findings were not consistent. Studies measured this in different ways, sometimes showing that magnesium helped reduce the number of leg cramps but sometimes showing that it made little or no difference. Likewise, evidence about whether magnesium reduced the intensity of pain was inconclusive with one study showing a reduction while others showed no difference. There was little or no difference in the experience of side effects, such as nausea and diarrhoea. 
Calcium did not consistently reduce how often women experienced leg cramps after treatment compared to women who did not receive any treatment. The evidence was also found to be of very low quality and so we cannot be sure of the results. 
More women who received vitamin B supplements fully recovered compared with those women receiving no treatment; however these results were from a small sample and the study had design limitations. 
The frequency of leg cramps was no different between women treated with calcium and those treated with vitamin C. 
The calcium‐vitamin D and the vitamin D supplements had no effect on the frequency, length, and pain intensity of leg cramps after treatment compared to women who received placebo. 
What does this mean? 
The level of evidence was found to be of low or very low quality. This was mainly due to the small sample size of studies and poor study design. Four studies were well‐conducted and reported. The other four had design limitations: women were not allocated to different treatment groups in the best way in several studies, and in two studies women knew whether they were receiving treatment or not. Adverse effects such as any effect of the treatment on pregnancy complications, labour and the baby were not reported. Several of the studies focused mainly on serum calcium and magnesium levels. The frequency and intensity of cramps and the duration of pain were not reported in a consistent way and often information was lacking on how they were measured, either during treatment, at the end of treatment or after treatment had stopped. 
