Perioperative antibiotics for preventing post‐surgical site infections in solid organ transplant recipients 
What is the issue?People receiving organ transplants are at high risk of infections due to the complex surgery and the weakening of the body’s immune defence against infection by anti‐rejection drugs. The germs causing infection around the time of transplantation may come from the person’s body, the transplanted organ, or the environment. Depending on the type of organ transplanted and the era in which the transplant took place, surgical site infections have been reported to occur following 3% to 53% of transplant operations. A surgical site infection is an infection that occurs after surgery in the part of the body where the surgery took place. This could include redness of the wound and/or a discharge of pus, which, if not treated with antibiotics or further surgery, could lead to bloodstream infection, infection of other organs in the body (including the transplant organ) or even death. Avoiding surgical site infection may improve patient and transplant survival. Giving antibiotics around the time of the transplant surgery may help to prevent surgical site infections but has not been studied in a systematic way. Giving antibiotics is also not without risk of harm since antibiotics are known to encourage the develop of antibiotic‐resistant germs, cause side effects like diarrhoea, and cost money. 
What did we do?We reviewed the literature up to April 2020, and found eight studies (718 randomised participants) that assessed whether antibiotics given around the time of transplant surgery prevent surgical site infections in organ transplant recipients.What did we find?When compared with no antibiotics, we are uncertain whether antibiotics reduce the occurrence of surgical site infections as the certainty of the evidence has been assessed as very low. When compared with short duration antibiotics, we are uncertain whether extended duration antibiotics reduce the occurrence of surgical site infections as the certainty of the evidence has been assessed as very low. Studies were limited by small size, short follow‐up duration, suboptimal methodological quality, and inconsistent reporting of outcomes. Consequently, the effects of antibiotics in preventing surgical site infections from occurring in people receiving organ transplant is uncertain.ConclusionsIt is uncertain whether antibiotics are beneficial in solid organ transplant recipients for the prevention of surgical site infections. We do not have enough data to estimate with precision some effects of antibiotics. A randomised controlled trial of antibiotic use versus placebo or single dose versus short course of antibiotic use is warranted. 
