Single‐incision sling operations for urinary incontinence in women
Stress urinary incontinence (leakage of urine on effort or exertion, or on coughing, sneezing or laughing) is a common condition that affects up to one in three women worldwide. It is usually the result of weakening of the muscular support of the pipe that conducts urine (urethra), or weakening of the sphincter (circular) muscle at the base of the bladder, which maintains continence. It is more common in women who have had children by vaginal delivery and in those who have weakness in the pelvic floor muscles for other reasons. A significant amount of the woman's and her family's income can be spent on managing the symptoms. 
Historically many types of surgery have been performed to treat women with stress urinary incontinence. Over the past 10 years, the accepted standard technique has been the mid‐urethral sling operation, whereby an artificial tape or mesh is placed directly beneath the urethra and is anchored to the tissues in adjacent parts of the groin or just above the pubic bone. Examples of such slings that are commonly used are tension‐free vaginal tape (TVTTM) and transobturator tape (TOT). These operations are usually quite successful, with success rates approaching 80% or 90%. However, they have been shown to result in significant side effects, which can be bothersome and sometimes even dangerous, such as damage to the bladder caused by tape insertion, erosion of the tape into the urethra during the healing period or chronic thigh/groin pain. 
In an effort to maintain efficacy while eliminating some of the side effects, a new generation of slings has been developed, called 'single‐incision slings' or 'mini‐slings'; these slings are the subject of this review. They are designed to be shorter (in length) than standard mid‐urethral slings and do not penetrate the tissues as deeply as standard slings. It was therefore thought that they would cause fewer side effects while being no less effective. Examples of single‐incision slings include TVT‐Secur, MiniArc, Ajust and Needleless slings, among others. 
We looked for all trials that allocated participants at random to single‐incision slings versus any other treatment for stress incontinence in women, especially comparisons with mid‐urethral slings. We identified a total of 31 trials, involving 3290 women, all of which compared a type of single‐incision sling versus a type of mid‐urethral sling, or different types of single‐incision slings against each other. Overall the quality of the trials was moderate. 
We found that subtle differences in the way individual mini‐slings work have sometimes made comparisons difficult. TVT‐Secur is a specific type of mini‐sling that has consistently been shown to provide poorer control of incontinence, along with higher rates of side effects, compared with standard mid‐urethral slings. It has already been withdrawn from clinical use. 
