Care prior to the next pregnancy for women diagnosed with gestational diabetes
What is the issue? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to look at the effects of specialised, targeted care given to mothers who have had a least one pregnancy affected by gestational diabetes. Does this sort of care improve the health of the mother and her baby, during and after her next pregnancy? We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question (date of search: April 2017). 
Why is this important? 
Gestational diabetes (GD), also called gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM), is glucose intolerance arising during pregnancy. GDM can lead to health complications for the mother. These complications might include high blood pressure during pregnancy and at the birth, pre‐eclampsia (high blood pressure plus protein in the urine), and the development of type 2 diabetes in the future. The birth is more likely to be induced. The babies of mothers with GDM are more likely to be born by caesarean section, and to develop diabetes as children or young adults. Women who experience GDM are at risk of developing it again in a subsequent pregnancy. 
If targeted care between the birth of one child and the next pregnancy – known as interconception care – reduces the incidence of GDM, then perhaps these health risks can be reduced, too. 
Interconception care may include education, dietary and lifestyle advice, intervention with medication and careful monitoring of the mother’s health, focusing on testing for glucose tolerance. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for trials which looked at the health outcomes for women and babies after specific interconception care, and compared the outcomes for standard care (with no interconception care of this type). Our search identified one trial which has yet to issue a full set of results, plus two further trials; one of these is still underway and the other has yet to be published. 
What does this mean? 
Because there are no studies currently available, there is not enough evidence at present to say if interconception care for women with a history of GDM can help to improve the health of mothers and their infants. More high‐quality studies are needed, which assess both short‐ and long‐term health outcomes for women and their babies, as well as evaluating the impact on the health services. 
