Birth and death notification via mobile devices: a mixed methods review
What is the aim of this review? 
In this Cochrane Review, we aimed to assess the effect of using mobile devices to notify births and deaths. We also aimed to describe how these mobile solutions are being used in practice and the factors that influence their use. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer these questions. 
Key messages 
We know very little about the effects of using mobile devices to notify births and deaths. Factors that can influence the implementation of this approach include factors tied to the health system and the notification system, the person responsible for notifying, the community, and the families involved. 
What was studied in the review? 
By registering notified births and deaths, governments can track the health of their population, identify needs and problems, and design better services. In many countries, births and deaths are not properly registered. Sometimes this is because government systems are poorly designed to facilitate registration, government workers do not have proper training, people live far from government services, or are not aware of the need to register births or deaths. In many cases, registration is affected by delays in or lack of birth or death notification. 
Governments are starting to use mobile devices such as mobile phones to reduce problems with birth or death notification. In some settings, members of the public, healthcare workers and others use mobile phones to notify a birth or death to the health system or to a central registration system. 
The main aim of our review was to assess what happens when people use mobile devices to notify births and deaths, compared to other systems or no systems at all. For instance, do they register more birth and deaths, and do they do this at the right time? And does this lead more babies and children to use or receive health services, such as immunisation? We also wanted to find out how people are using these mobile systems in practice and what influences their use. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 21 relevant studies. All of the studies were from low‐ or middle‐income countries. Most of these studies focussed on the notification of births and deaths in rural, remote, or marginalised populations who are often under‐represented in birth or death registration processes or have poor access to health services. Only one of the studies assessed the effect of using mobile devices for notification systems. This study focussed on birth notification. We did not find any studies that assessed the effect of using mobile devices for death notification. We are uncertain of the effect of this approach on the number of births and deaths that are properly notified because the certainty of this evidence was assessed as very low. 
The other studies had information about how people use the mobile device‐based birth and death notification systems in practice. These studies pointed to several factors that could influence the implementation of birth‐death notification via mobile devices. These factors were tied to the health system and the notification system, the person responsible for notifying, the community, and the families involved. They include: 
