Glucose targets for preventing diabetic kidney disease and its progression
What is the issue? 
In many parts of the world, diabetes is the most common reason that people experience kidney failure and need treatment with a kidney transplant or dialysis. Disability (blindness, limb loss, kidney failure) due to diabetes is caused by high blood glucose (sugar) levels. An important question is whether extra treatment to control blood glucose levels to near normal can safely prevent the health consequences of diabetes including lower life expectancy and loss of kidney function, without causing problems such as low blood glucose leading to loss of awareness or seizures. Some medical care of diabetes includes careful blood glucose control to low levels (measured by a blood test called the HbA1C) through the use of extra medication and careful blood glucose monitoring with the help of health professionals. 
What did we do? 
We looked at the evidence for tighter blood glucose control (lower blood glucose in the long term, that is HbA1c < 7% ) compared with less tight blood glucose control (HbA1c > 7%) in people who have either type 1 or type 2 diabetes. Blood glucose was achieved by any sort of treatment including pills or insulin. 
What did we find? 
Fourteen studies involving 29,319 people with at risk of diabetes complications were included and 11 studies involving 29,141 people were included in our analyses. Tighter blood glucose control generally didn't show any benefits for patients compared to less tight glucose control. There was no difference in the risks for patients on kidney failure, death, or heart disease complications. A very small number of patients (1 in every 1000 treated each year) might avoid a heart attack with more intense blood glucose management. Some patients would expect to have less protein leakage through kidney function although the clinical impact of this benefit is unclear in the long term. The potential problems with treatment, such as side effects and risks of very low blood glucose (hypoglycaemia) were not generally measured in the studies. 
Our conclusions 
The review concludes that people with diabetes receive uncertain benefits from tighter blood glucose control in the long‐term and the immediate complications of this treatment approach are difficult to know accurately. 
