Sclerotherapy versus sham or no intervention for primary prophylaxis of oesophageal variceal bleeding in children with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis 
Background 
Portal hypertension is an increase in the blood pressure within a system of veins (a type of blood vessel) called the portal venous system, which drains blood from the gastrointestinal tract and spleen into the liver. Portal hypertension commonly accompanies advanced liver disease and often gives rise to life‐threatening complications, including bleeding from oesophageal (food pipe) and gastrointestinal varices (enlarged or swollen veins). 
Numerous randomised clinical trials (studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) have demonstrated the effectiveness of treatments such as non‐selective beta‐blockers, endoscopic variceal ligation (tight tying of a ligature around the varice), and vascular obliteration by injecting a sclerosing agent (sclerotherapy) in decreasing the incidence of variceal haemorrhage (bleeding) of adults. Thus, treatment to prevent variceal haemorrhage in adults (called primary prophylaxis) has become the established standard of care. However, it is unknown whether these treatments are of benefit or cause harm when used in children. 
Aims 
We aimed to conduct a systematic review of randomised clinical trials assessing the benefits and harms of sclerotherapy versus sham (pretend treatment) or no intervention for the prevention of oesophageal variceal bleeding in children with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (blockage or narrowing of the portal vein (the blood vessel that takes blood to the liver from the intestines) by a blood clot). We searched for studies to February 2019. We planned to include trials no matter what outcome data they reported. We planned to include trials in children, up to 18 years old, with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis, irrespective of the cause, severity of disease, and duration of illness. Children should not yet have had gastrointestinal bleeding from oesophageal varices (primary prophylaxis). 
