Oral medication for the treatment of women with gestational diabetes
What is the issue? 
Globally the number of women being diagnosed with gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) is increasing. GDM is an intolerance to glucose leading to high blood sugars, first recognised during pregnancy and usually resolving after birth. Standard care involves lifestyle advice on diet and exercise. Treatment for some women includes oral anti‐diabetic medications, such as metformin and glibenclamide, which are an alternative to, or can be used alongside, insulin to control the blood sugar. This review aimed to investigate benefits of taking oral medication to treat GDM in pregnant women. Another Cochrane Review compares the effects of insulin with oral anti‐diabetic pharmacological therapies (Brown 2016). 
Why is this important? 
Women diagnosed with GDM are at a greater risk of experiencing complications such as high blood pressure during pregnancy and at birth. They have an increased risk of developing diabetes later in life. The babies of women who have been diagnosed with GDM can be larger than normal and this can cause injuries to the mother and the baby at birth. The birth is more likely to be induced or the baby born by caesarean section. These babies are at risk of developing diabetes as children or young adults. Finding the best medications to treat the women and prevent the complications that are linked to GDM is therefore important. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies on 14 May 2016. We included 11 randomised controlled trials involving 1487 mothers and their babies (but only eight trials contributed data to our analyses). The evidence was limited by the quality and number of studies and we advise caution when looking at the results. 
The criteria for diagnosis of GDM and treatment targets varied between studies, and each outcome is based on few studies with low numbers of women. Three studies compared oral medication with placebo/standard care but the following findings are from a single study (375 women). The quality of the evidence was very low or low. We found no differences between the oral medication and placebo group for the risk of high blood pressure, birth by caesarean section, induction of labour or perineal trauma. The number of babies born large‐for‐gestational age, with low blood sugars or dying at birth was not clearly different between the groups. Two studies (434 women) reported no difference in the need for insulin between the oral medication and placebo group. 
Six studies compared metformin with glibenclamide. The quality of the evidence was very low to moderate. We found no difference between metformin and glibenclamide for the risk of high blood pressure (three studies, 508 women, moderate‐quality evidence), birth by caesarean section (four studies, 554 women, low‐quality evidence), perineal trauma (two studies, 308 women, low‐quality evidence) or induction of labour (one study, 159 women, low‐quality evidence). We found no difference between metformin and glibenclamide for the baby having low blood sugars (four studies, 554 infants, low‐quality evidence), being born large‐for‐gestational age (two studies, 246 infants) or dying at birth (all low‐ or very low‐quality evidence). In one study, the babies of the mothers taking metformin were at reduced risk of having any serious outcome (low blood sugar, jaundice, being born large, breathing problems, injury at birth or death combined) (low‐quality evidence). One small study (43 women) comparing glibenclamide with acarbose reported no differences in outcomes for mothers or their babies. 
None of the included studies provided any data on many of the outcomes pre‐specified in this review, including long‐term outcomes for the mother or for the baby as a child or an adult. 
What does this mean? 
There is not enough high‐quality evidence available to guide us on if oral medication has better outcomes for women with gestational diabetes, and their babies, compared with a placebo or if one oral medication has better health outcomes than another oral medication. Because we are still unclear, further research is needed. Future studies should be encouraged to report on the outcomes suggested in this review and in particular the long‐term outcomes for the woman and the infant that have been poorly reported to date. 
