Antiviral therapy to prevent the recurrence of chronic hepatitis C infection in patients undergoing liver transplantation 
Background  The liver is an important organ of the body and has various functions including generation of energy from food, production of material necessary for congealing, processing and excretion of drugs and waste products in blood, and filtering out the harmful bacteria that enter the body through the gut. Hepatitis C virus can cause damage to the liver usually in an insidious manner (chronic hepatitis C virus infection). Sometimes, the liver damage can be so severe that the liver is not able to carry out the normal functions, which results in liver failure. Liver transplantation is effective in treating liver failure due to chronic hepatitis C infection. However, liver transplantation does not eradicate the virus and the virus can affect the donor liver graft. One of the proposed strategies to prevent the recurrence of chronic hepatitis C infection in these patients is to give drug treatment before the donor liver graft is affected by chronic hepatitis C infection. The effectiveness of these preventive treatments is not known. The review authors performed a detailed review of the medical literature to February 2013 to determine the benefits and harms of different preventive antiviral treatments for patients undergoing liver transplantation for chronic hepatitis C virus infection. The review authors sought evidence from randomised clinical trials only. When conducted properly, such trials provide the best evidence. Two review authors independently identified the trials and obtained the information from the trials to minimise error. 
Study characteristics  Ten trials including 441 liver transplant recipients provided data for this review. The patients were randomised to receive different treatments or no treatment in these 10 trials. We found two other trials, but data were not provided. 
Key results  There were no significant differences in the proportion of patients who died or required retransplantation within 90 days or at maximal follow‐up between the different treatment groups for any of the comparisons. There were no significant differences in serious complications, graft rejection, microscopic features of liver damage, or evidence of chronic hepatitis C recurrence between the different treatment groups or no treatment in any of the comparisons that reported these outcomes. None of the trials reported quality of life, liver failure, intensive therapy unit stay, or hospital stay. Life‐threatening adverse events were not reported in any of the comparisons. There is currently no evidence to recommend preventive antiviral treatment to prevent recurrence of chronic HCV infection either in primary liver transplantation or retransplantation. 
