An overview of Cochrane Reviews on red blood cell transfusions to treat or prevent sickle cell disease‐related complications 
Review question 
To summarize the evidence in Cochrane Reviews of the effectiveness and safety of red blood cell (RBC) transfusions for treating or preventing complications experienced by people with sickle cell disease (SCD). 
Background 
SCD is a serious inherited blood disorder where the RBCs, which carry oxygen around the body, develop abnormally. Normal RBCs are flexible and disc‐shaped, but in SCD they can become rigid and crescent shaped. Sickled cells are not only less flexible than healthy RBCs, they are also stickier. This can lead to the blockage of blood vessels, resulting in tissue and organ damage and episodes of severe pain. The abnormal RBCs are more fragile and break apart, which leads to fewer of them, known as anaemia. 
Overview characteristics 
We searched for Cochrane Reviews that analysed the data from randomised controlled trials (RCT; experiments that randomly allocate participants to one of two or more treatment groups), which looked at the effectiveness of RBC transfusions to prevent or treat SCD complications. This overview summarises the results of these reviews. 
Key results 
15 reviews met the inclusion criteria for this overview. However, only four reviews (which included nine RCTs and 1052 participants) looked at the effects of RBCtransfusion and had results that could be reported. In the four reviews there was no difference in the risk of death with any comparison. We found that long‐term RBC transfusions compared to standard care, probably decrease the risk of stroke in children and adolescents at high risk of stroke (abnormal transcranial doppler (TCD) ultrasound (high blood flow to the brain) or a previous silent stroke (a stroke with no outward symptoms and where a person is typically unaware they have suffered a stroke)) and may also decrease their risk of painful crisis and acute chest syndrome. Red blood cell transfusions may also decrease the risk of silent stroke in children with abnormal TCD ultrasound when compared to standard care. 
We found there was a lack of evidence for treating adults with SCD‐related complications and that important outcomes, including quality of life were often not measured or reported. 
