Can apps be used for the delivery of survey questionnaires in public health and clinical research? 
Background 
Survey questionnaires are important tools in public health and clinical research as they offer a convenient way of collecting data from a large number of respondents, dealing with sensitive topics, and are less resource intensive than other data collection techniques. The delivery of survey questionnaires via apps running on smartphones or tablets could maximise the scalability and speed of data collection offered by these tools, whilst reducing costs. However, before this technology becomes widely adopted, we need to understand how it could affect the quality of the responses collected. Particularly, if we consider the impact that data quality can have on the evidence base that supports many public health and healthcare decisions. 
Objective 
In this Cochrane review, we assessed the impact that using apps to deliver a survey can have on various aspects of the quality of responses. These include response rates, data accuracy, data completeness, time taken to complete a survey questionnaire, and acceptability to respondents. 
Methods and results 
We searched for studies published between January 2007 and April 2015. We included 14 studies and analysed data from 2272 participants. We did not conduct a meta‐analysis because of differences across the studies. Instead, we describe the results of each study. The studies took place in two types of setting: controlled and uncontrolled. The former refers to research or clinical environments in which healthcare practitioners or researchers were able to better control for potential confounders, such as the location and time of day in which surveys were completed, the type of technology used and the level of help available to respondents deal with technical difficulties. Uncontrolled settings refer to locations outside these research or clinical environments (e.g., the respondent's home). We found that apps may be equivalent to other delivery modes such as paper, laptops and SMS in both settings. It is unclear if apps could result in faster completion times than other delivery modes. Instead, our findings suggest that factors such as the characteristics of the clinical population, and survey and interface design could moderate the effect on this outcome. Data completeness and adherence to sampling protocols were only reported in uncontrolled settings. Our results indicate that apps may result in more complete datasets, and may improve adherence to sampling protocols compared to paper but not to SMS. There were multiple definitions of acceptability to respondents, which could not be standardised across the included studies. Lastly, none of the included studies reported on response rates or data accuracy. 
