Heart failure drugs in people with chronic kidney disease
What is the issue? 
People with heart failure (when the heart doesn't pump blood properly) often need medicine to help with symptoms like fatigue, swelling, and breathing problems. Studies have looked at whether these medicines are harmful or helpful. However, but they do not clarify whether these treatments may help people with heart failure that also have kidney problems (when the kidneys don't remove waste and fluid from the body properly). 
What did we do? 
We searched for all research studies that assessed the different treatments for heart failure up to September 2019. We evaluated whether medicines prevent death or hospital admissions, or increase risk of harm, for people with kidney disease. We also measured how certain we could be about the effects of these medicines on the body using a system called "GRADE". 
What did we find? 
We found 31 studies involving 23,762 people with heart failure and chronic kidney disease. Patients were given either a heart failure medicine compared to standard care or a placebo. The treatment they received was decided by random chance. Although there were many different treatments studied, unfortunately, few of them looked at the same type of medicine. As well, there were many different ways that researchers measured what happened when patients took these medicines. As a result, we could not combine the studies together and clarify the benefits and harms of each treatment. Existing studies cannot really tell us whether medicines used to treat heart failure in the general population are effective or safe for people who have both heart failure and chronic kidney disease. 
Conclusions 
We are not able to recommend which heart failure medicines are best for people with heart failure and chronic kidney disease. We need more information from large clinical studies. Most of the heart failure studies did not report treatment effects separately based on levels of kidney function. Obtaining this information from existing studies may be helpful to learn more about how to treat heart failure in people with chronic kidney disease. 
