Injections of anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor for advanced diabetic retinopathy
Review question  Do injections of anti‐vascular endothelial growth factor (anti‐VEGF) help people with advanced diabetic retinopathy in terms of vision and progression of the disease? Is this treatment safe? 
Background  Diabetic retinopathy is a problem of the back of the eye that occurs in people with diabetes. In later stages of the disease, new blood vessels grow in the back of the eye and cause problems with vision. This advanced form of the disease is known as proliferative diabetic retinopathy. Anti‐VEGF has been developed to block the growth of these new vessels. It has to be injected into the eye. 
Search date  We examined research published up to 28 April 2014. 
Study characteristics  We found 18 trials. They took place in Asia (three trials), Europe (two trials), the Middle East (seven trials), North America (three trials) and South America (three trials). A total of 1005 people took part in these trials and 1131 eyes were studied. Eight trials studied anti‐VEGF with another commonly used treatment for diabetic retinopathy (laser), nine studies looked at anti‐VEGF at the time of diabetic eye surgery (vitrectomy) and one study investigated use of anti‐VEGF in people with diabetic retinopathy having cataract surgery. Most studies followed up the participants for six months but some studies followed up for one year. 
Study funding sources  One study was industry funded, one study was funded by a mixture of government and industry, and three studies were funded by government and non‐government organisations. The remainder of the studies did not report a funding source. 
Key results  In one small study, we found that people treated with anti‐VEGF plus laser were less likely to lose some vision compared with people treated with laser alone but the estimate was imprecise: around 30% of people treated with laser lost some vision compared with 6% and 24% of people treated with anti‐VEGF plus laser. 
On average, people treated with anti‐VEGF had slightly better vision than people not treated with anti‐VEGF. They were also less likely to have bleeding in the eye. None of the studies reported on quality of life. One study suggested that injection of anti‐VEGF was less painful than having laser treatment. 
People treated with anti‐VEGF before or during diabetic eye surgery (vitrectomy) were less likely to lose some vision compared with people treated with surgery alone, but the estimate was uncertain and it could be that anti‐VEGF did not make a difference, or increased the risk of losing vision. On average, people receiving anti‐VEGF before or during diabetic eye surgery had slightly better vision than people not treated with anti‐VEGF, but again the estimate was uncertain. They were also less likely to have bleeding in the eye. None of the studies reported on quality of life. 
