Respiratory muscle training in children and adults with neuromuscular disease
Review question 
Does respiratory muscle training have beneficial effects for children and adults with neuromuscular disease? 
Background 
Neuromuscular disease is a very broad term that covers many diseases that either directly or indirectly affect muscles or nerves. Children and adults with neuromuscular diseases can present with muscle weakness, loss of movement control, and muscle wasting. Some neuromuscular diseases cause weakness of respiratory muscles (diaphragm and accessory muscles of respiration). The decline of respiratory muscle function in these diseases affects activities of daily living and quality of life. Respiratory muscle training could potentially be considered as an extra therapy for people with suspected or confirmed respiratory muscle weakness. 
Study characteristics 
This review included 11 studies with a total of 250 randomized participants with neuromuscular disease. Six studies included 112 young males (including children) with Duchenne muscular dystrophy, which is an inherited muscle disease. One trial involved 23 adults with other muscle diseases (Becker muscular dystrophy and limb‐girdle muscular dystrophy). Three trials involved 88 people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, a progressive condition that affects the nerves controlling movement. One trial involved 27 people with myasthenia gravis, a condition that affects the signals between nerves and muscles. 
Key results 
The studies showed that respiratory muscle training may result in some improvements in lung function for people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis and Duchenne muscular dystrophy. However, this finding was not consistent between studies. Physical function and quality of life were only assessed in one amyotrophic lateral sclerosis trial, which indicated that RMT may have no clear effect. One trial reported on adverse events, but the certainty of evidence was too low for conclusions to be drawn. The studies did not report the number of unscheduled hospitalisations for sudden infection or worsening of chronic respiratory failure. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence examined as part of this review was low or very low. Low‐certainty evidence means that our confidence in the effect of respiratory muscle training is limited, and the true effect may be substantially different. When the evidence is of very low‐certainty, the true effect is likely to be substantially different. Given the low or very low‐certainty of the evidence presented in the studies, we believe that there is a need for more well‐conducted studies in order to assess the efficacy of respiratory muscle training in people with NMD. 
