Ibuprofen‐like painkillers given before cutting the skin in surgery compared with given after cutting the skin in adults undergoing all types of surgery 
We aimed to assess the effect of a single dose of a nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID: for example, ibuprofen) given before making the first cut during surgery (pre‐emptive NSAIDs) or given before the first cut and continued after surgery (preventive NSAIDs) on reducing pain in adults. 
Review questionWe reviewed the evidence for NSAID painkillers when given before surgery compared to the same painkiller given only after the surgeon has cut the skin in adults undergoing all types of surgery. 
BackgroundMost people experience pain after surgery that requires strong opioid (similar to morphine) painkillers. These medications are associated with a number of side effects including reduced breathing, a slow heart rate, and low blood pressure, as well as vomiting, sleepiness, itching, and constipation. Reducing the amount of opioids needed after surgery can limit these side effects and improve the patient experience and outcomes. Compared to starting painkillers later, beginning painkillers before making the first cut for surgery may reduce pain sensitivity, and thus lessen the pain experienced. We wanted to find out whether giving NSAID painkillers before surgery was more effective than giving the same painkiller, at the same dose, after surgery. 
Study characteristicsWe searched the medical literature for randomized controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to a treatmentgroup using a random method). The evidence is current to June 2020. Patients were randomly allocated to one of two groups. One group was treated with NSAIDs before the surgeon cut the skin, whilst the other group was given the same medication after the surgeon cut the skin. We found 71 trials with patients aged 18 years or over who were undergoing many different operations. Nearly all patients were fit and healthy undergoing procedures in hospitals around the world. 
Key resultsIn 36 trials (2032 patients), use of pre‐emptive NSAIDs resulted in a small reduction in the pain experienced in the first six hours after surgery. No studies included serious side effects from NSAIDs as an outcome (bleeding, heart attacks or kidney failure). There was no difference in nausea and vomiting after surgery. In 28 studies (1645 patients), there was no difference in pain at 24 to 48 hours after surgery. In 16 studies (854 patients) there was a reduction in the amount of strong painkillers used after surgery and an increase in the time until patients needed these strong painkillers. Despite this, we found no reduction in the side effects from these strong painkillers (itching or sleepiness). No studies reported patient satisfaction, long‐term pain after surgery or the time until patients opened their bowels. 
For preventive NSAIDs, in 18 studies (1140 patients), there was no difference in the pain experienced in the first six hours after surgery. One study reported bleeding after surgery requiring another operation and found no difference, although there were not enough events to be certain of this result. There was no difference in nausea and vomiting. In 21 studies (1441 patients), there was a reduction in pain at 24 to 48 hours after surgery and in 16 studies (1323 patients) a reduction in the amount of strong painkillers used after surgery. There was no difference in the time to requesting strong painkillers. There was no difference in itching, sleepiness or patient satisfaction. No study reported long‐term pain. There was no difference in time to first bowel movement. 
Certainty of the evidenceAlthough we found some differences in pain and painkiller usage, the certainty of the evidence ranged from very low to moderate. Also, any differences found were not large enough for patients to consider important. This was due to deficiencies in how the studies were conducted, the small numbers of patients recruited for some outcomes and differences in the results between studies, which means we are uncertain any differences we found are real and, therefore, future research is required. 
