Interventions to help people return to work after a heart attack, bypass or stent.
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to find and analyse the results of studies examining programmes to help people with heart disease return to work in order to determine if these programmes really help them return to work, and also if these programmes affect quality of life or have any unwanted effects. 
Key messages 
Cardiac rehabilitation programmes, including both exercise and counselling components, probably shorten the time needed to return to work (moderate‐certainty evidence) and may increase the number of patients who return to work in the first six months after a heart attack, bypass or stent (low‐certainty evidence), but these programmes may have little or no effect on return to work after six months. Programmes comprising only counselling or exercise may make little to no difference in the number of patients returning to work or in the time needed to return to work (low to very low‐certainty evidence). 
What was studied in the review? 
People recovering from a heart attack or from a procedure to improve heart disease may have problems returning to work. These procedures could be a bypass (a surgical procedure to bypass narrowed coronary arteries, also called coronary artery bypass graft or CABG) or a nonsurgical intervention, including implanting stents (called percutaneous coronary interventions (PCI)), for example. Physical weakness and emotional problems resulting from heart disease may result in long absences from work or lead to disability retirement. Conditions at work may also make it difficult for patients to return to work. This can have a lasting impact on their quality of life. We looked at programmes that made it easier for people to return to work, for example by modifying their working conditions, or addressing the anxiety that often accompanies heart disease by educating patients on heart health, helping them to exercise or applying a combination of counselling and exercise to help them become healthy enough to return to work. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found a total 39 studies that looked at return to work among people with heart disease in programmes designed to support the recovery process or encourage return to work compared to patients receiving usual care. 
We found no studies that made changes to the workplace or workplace policies to ease the return to work, for example by reducing patients' working hours or tasks, and gradually increasing the working hours and tasks as health improves. 
We found 11 studies evaluating programmes that addressed the fears and depression that often accompany heart disease, by teaching patients about heart disease. We do not know if these counselling and health education programmes increase the number of patients who returned to work or shorten the time patients are away from their jobs (low‐ to very low‐certainty evidence). 
We found four studies using programmes that recommended when people with heart disease should return to work or provided counselling to co‐workers to address their concerns regarding the causes of the heart attacks and the patient’s ability to resume working. Work‐directed counselling interventions may make little to no difference to the time patients need to return to work (low‐certainty evidence). 
We found nine studies providing exercise programmes alone. Exercise programmes may make little to no difference in the number of patients returning to work between six months and a year (low‐certainty evidence) and may make little to no difference in the number of patients working between one and five years or in the time needed to return to work (low‐certainty evidence). 
We found 17 studies that evaluated combined exercise and counselling programmes. These combined programmes may increase the number of patients returning to work up to six months after a heart attack, bypass or stent (low‐certainty evidence): for every five patients enrolled in a combined cardiac rehabilitation programme, one additional patient may return to work. These programs probably shorten the time needed to return to work (moderate‐certainty evidence) by about a month. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to 11 October 2018.
