Tonsillectomy for PFAPA syndrome (a rare cause of recurrent fever, mouth ulcers, sore throat and swollen neck glands) 
Background 
Periodic fever, aphthous stomatitis, pharyngitis and cervical adenitis (PFAPA) syndrome is a rare cause of regular, repeated episodes of fever, sore throat and swollen neck glands in children. It is a diagnosis that needs confirmation by paediatricians working in centres with expertise in this condition and most children who suffer from repeated sore throats and tonsillitis will not have it. This review compared the clinical effectiveness and safety of removing the palatine tonsils (tonsillectomy), with and without removal of the adenoids, against non‐surgical management of children with PFAPA syndrome. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for and included any randomised controlled trials published up to October 2019. We found two small randomised controlled trials, with a low risk of bias, comparing tonsillectomy or adenotonsillectomy against non‐surgical interventions (total of 67 participants, with data from 65 analysed). One study (39 participants) used the adenotonsillectomy procedure in the intervention group and followed up patients for 18 months. This study applied stringent criteria for diagnosing PFAPA when recruiting patients. The other trial (28 participants) only removed the tonsils and followed up patients for up to six months. Less stringent recruitment criteria were applied and it was possible that patients with other types of recurrent sore throats might have been recruited and included in the trial. Neither study masked participants and investigators to the type of treatment received. Participants in the control groups of both studies received standard medical treatment. 
Key results 
The two trials showed that children with PFAPA are likely to benefit from tonsillectomy. The results showed that children who had surgery were about four times more likely to be free of PFAPA symptoms from the point of surgery until the end of the follow‐up periods for these studies. There was an overall decrease in the number or frequency of PFAPA episodes experienced by the children in the surgery group. While the average child in the control arm had an average of one episode every two months, this was reduced to less than one‐tenth of that; i.e. about one episode every two years among children who had surgery. In addition, the length of each episode was also shortened by an average of 1.8 days (reduced from an average of 3.5 days to 1.7 days per episode) for children who had surgery. 
Courses of corticosteroids can be used to treat episodes of symptoms in children with PFAPA. One trial reported that the proportion of children given a course of corticosteroids was lower in children who received surgery. 
