Asthma education for school staff
Background to the question 
Teachers and school staff need to know how to manage asthma in schools. If they have little knowledge of asthma, staff may not know how best to protect a child with asthma, or may fail to act in the event of a serious attack. We aimed to assess the benefits and possible harms of asthma education for school staff, and to explore how this education can best be delivered. 
Study characteristics 
We found five studies including more than 100 schools that compared an asthma education programme for school staff against a control. Researchers measured outcomes for teachers and staff, and often for children or parents as well, most often at between 1 and 12 months. We conducted the most recent search for studies on 29 November 2016. 
Main results 
We could not tell whether educating school staff reduced the number of children who needed to visit the emergency department (ED) or hospital, and no studies reported any deaths. Study authors measured asthma control in different ways but found little benefit, especially more than a year after the intervention was provided. 
Schools that received asthma education stuck to asthma policies better and staff were better prepared; more schools that had received staff asthma training had written asthma policies compared with control schools, more intervention schools showed improvement in measures taken to prevent or manage exercise‐induced asthma attacks and more staff at intervention schools felt that they were able to administer salbutamol using a spacer. 
We wanted to assess what the education sessions should cover and how they could best be delivered, but we did not find enough information to do this. 
To sum up, asthma education for school staff increases asthma knowledge and preparedness in the schools, but we do not know much about actual benefits of this education for children with asthma. 
Quality of the evidence 
The small number of studies and the variation between them mean that we cannot be sure of the overall effect of educating school staff about asthma. The ways researchers allocated schools, teachers or children to groups may have caused some bias. Also, the fact that teachers knew whether they were in the active or control group may have affected how they behaved and answered questionnaires, and this may have led to overestimation of benefits. Lots of people who were included in the studies did not return questionnaires at the end of the study, which means that we do not have a full picture of the results of asthma education interventions. 
