Distal aortic perfusion during thoracoabdominal aneurysm repair for prevention of paraplegia 
Aneurysm of an artery is a localised abnormal dilation with a diameter of the artery at least one and a half times its normal size. Aneurysms in both the thoracic and abdominal aorta are termed thoracoabdominal aortic aneurysms (TAAA). Open surgical repair is effective in ensuring the survival of people with such aneurysms. Complications of paralysis of the legs and lower parts of the body (paraplegia) and partial paralysis affecting the lower limbs (paraparesis) can however develop during surgery and in the postoperative period, following apparently successful surgery. This is the result of inadequate blood flow to the spinal cord and the vulnerability of the spinal cord to ischaemic injury. 
Different additional treatments (adjuncts) are used to protect the spinal cord and minimise the chances of these complications. Distal aortic perfusion is one of these. The most commonly used technique is through cannulation of the left atrium to redirect blood flow through a centrifugal pump to the distal aortic region to maintain perfusion to the spinal cord and vital organs such as the kidneys. This is a complex procedure that has its own specific complications.  It can be used alone or with other adjuncts that include systemic cooling or regional spinal cord cooling, cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) drainage, re‐anastomosis (re‐joining) of intercostal arteries, monitoring somatosensory‐evoked potentials to indicate spinal cord ischaemia. 
Currently, there are no randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to support the role of distal aortic perfusion in TAAA surgery for prevention of neurological injury. Observational studies from experienced surgical centres suggest a potential benefit with the use of distal aortic perfusion as sole adjunct or in combination with CSF drainage. This will need to be validated in future RCTs to compare distal aortic perfusion with another adjunct against other adjuncts without use of distal perfusion during TAAA repair. Randomised controlled trials are not always feasible in this type of surgery based on ethical grounds. 
