Pelvic floor muscle training for urinary incontinence in women
Review question 
We wanted to find out if pelvic floor muscle training (PFMT) helps women with urinary incontinence problems. We did this by comparing the effects of this training with no treatment, or with any inactive treatment (for example, advice on management with pads). We also summarised findings on costs and cost‐effectiveness. 
We searched for clinical trials up to 12 February 2018.
Why is this question important? 
Stress incontinence is leaking of urine which cannot be easily controlled (if at all) when performing a physical activity. Physical activities could include coughing, sneezing, sporting activities or suddenly changing position. Urgency incontinence happens with a sudden, strong need to urinate. This can often lead to not making it to the toilet in time to urinate, resulting in leakage. Mixed incontinence is where someone has both stress and urgency incontinence. 
PFMT is a programme of exercise to improve pelvic floor muscle strength, endurance, power, relaxation or a combination of these. It is a widely used treatment for women with stress, urgency and mixed incontinence. 
How did we carry out the review of the evidence? 
The 31 included trials involved 1817 women from 14 countries. The studies included women with stress, urgency or mixed urinary incontinence. The women were allocated randomly to either receive or not receive PFMT and the effects were compared. We looked at whether the condition was 'cured,' or 'cured or improved.' We also looked at symptoms, the effect on quality of life (QoL) and the frequency and amount of urine lost. 
Study funding sources 
Eight studies were publicly funded. Three received grants from public and private sources. Two received grants from private sources, while two studies received no funding. Sixteen studies did not declare their funding sources. 
What we found 
The quality of the evidence we looked at was mostly moderate, which means we can have some confidence in the results. 
Cure of urinary incontinence after PFMT: women with stress urinary incontinence in the PFMT group were, on average, eight times more likely to report being cured. Women with any type of urinary incontinence in the PFMT group were, on average, five times more likely to report being cured. 
Cure or improvement of urinary incontinence after PFMT: women with stress urinary incontinence in PFMT groups were, on average, six times more likely to report they were cured or improved. Women with all type of urinary incontinence in the PFMT group were roughly twice as likely to report they were cured or improved. 
