Antidepressants for panic disorder in adults
Why is this review important? 
Panic disorder is common in the general population. It is characterised by panic attacks, periods of fear or anxiety with a rapid onset in which other characteristic symptoms are experienced (involving bodily systems and fearful thoughts). The treatment of panic disorder includes psychological and pharmacological interventions, often used in combination. Among pharmacological interventions, the standard treatment suggested by guidelines is different classes of antidepressants. Evidence for their effectiveness and acceptability is unclear. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
People with panic disorder and general practitioners.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
How effective are antidepressants compared to a sham treatment (known as placebo) in treating panic disorder? 
What is the acceptability of antidepressants compared to placebo in treating panic disorder? 
How many unintended and untoward effects (adverse effects) do antidepressants have compared to placebo in people with panic disorder? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched electronic databases to find all relevant studies. The medical studies included in the review compared treatment with antidepressants or placebo in adults with a diagnosis of panic disorder. The studies also had to be randomised controlled trials (RCTs), which means adults were allocated at random (by chance alone) to receive the treatment or placebo. We included 41 RCTs for a total of 9377 people in the review. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We found evidence showing that antidepressants are better than placebo in terms of effectiveness and number of people leaving the study early. However, our findings also showed that antidepressants are less well tolerated than placebo, producing more dropouts due to adverse effects. Results are limited in the following ways: some studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies, and only short‐term outcomes were assessed. We found almost no data on other clinically relevant outcomes, such as functioning and quality of life. The quality of the available evidence ranged from very low to high. 
