Action observation for arm rehabilitation after stroke
Review questionWe sought to compare the effects of action observation on arm and hand function after stroke with an alternative intervention or no intervention. In addition, we observed the effects of this therapy on upper extremity performance, everyday activities, quality of life, and activation of brain areas. 
BackgroundIndividuals who survive a stroke often have difficulty moving their arms, which can lead to problems with everyday activities and reduced participation in daily situations. Action observation is a physical rehabilitation approach proposed for arm rehabilitation, in which the person with stroke observes a healthy individual performing a task, either on video or in person, followed or not by execution of the same task. This safe technique can be performed without expensive and complicated equipment and requires minimal therapist supervision. Trials show that action observation activates brain areas similar to those activated when performing the same action, and may favor movement recovery after stroke. 
Trial characteristicsWe identified 16 trials involving 574 individuals after stroke. Most used video sequences and action observation followed by some form of motor practice, using a range of activities, with task complexity increased over the course of training or when it was easy for the participant to carry out. The evidence is current to May 2021. 
Key resultsTrials tested whether the use of action observation compared with an alternative intervention or no intervention resulted in participants' improved ability to use their arms and hands, and found that action observation might have a small effect on arm function (11 trials) and a large effect on hand function (five trials). There is no evidence of benefit or detriment from this therapy on everyday activities and quality of life of stroke patients. It was not possible to evaluate the results of upper extremity performance and activation of brain areas. 
