Immediate or delayed birth for a preterm fetus with suspected compromise
What is the issue? 
For a fetus who is not receiving enough oxygen or nutrients, the choice is to deliver the baby immediately (following a course of steroids to help the baby’s lungs to mature) or to wait as long as is thought to be safe. This review looked at which option was better for mothers and babies. 
Why is this important? 
Waiting allows the baby to develop as much as possible and decreases the risks associated with being premature. Premature babies are more likely to have breathing difficulties, low body temperature, low blood sugar levels, infection and jaundice. Remaining in the womb may mean the baby's vital organs are affected by a lack of oxygen. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 30 April 2016. This review includes one randomised study with 548 pregnant women (and 588 babies) with pregnancies between 24 and 36 weeks' gestation. The study took place in 13 countries in Europe, between 1993 and 2001. Women were asked to take part if their doctor was concerned about the baby but unsure if immediate delivery was best. The women were randomly allocated to immediate delivery or delivery when the doctor thought it was necessary. There were a few problems with the design of the study which may have affected the results: women and doctors knew which group they were in, some families left the study, and twins were analysed as though they were unrelated babies. There was moderate‐quality evidence for the main outcomes. Women only took part in the study if their doctor was not sure whether the baby needed to be born immediately or not. We do not know if the results apply when the doctor thinks that immediate birth or waiting was needed. 
Most babies in the delayed delivery group stayed in the womb for four days longer than babies in the immediate delivery group. More women in the immediate delivery group had a caesarean section (high quality evidence) and more babies delivered immediately needed mechanical breathing support for longer than 24 hours. There was no clear difference between immediate and delayed delivery in the number of babies who died (around the time of birth, or in the days and months after) (moderate quality evidence). There was also no clear difference in the number of babies who showed signs of medical problems known to affect premature babies, such as bleeding in the brain. The number of children with cerebral palsy at age two was higher in the immediate delivery group but there was no difference in neurodevelopmental impairment at or after two years, death or disability at two years (moderate quality evidence), and death or disability in childhood (six to 13 years). Some important outcomes were not reported, such as going to the neonatal intensive care unit and breathing problems. We were not able to add up the number of babies with different illnesses to work out the total number of babies with an illness, as some babies might be counted more than once. 
What does this mean? 
For preterm babies with suspected compromise and uncertainty about whether to deliver or not, there appears to be no benefit to immediate delivery. 
As there is only one trial, and it has flaws, we need to be careful how we apply this evidence. We still do not know how long it is best to wait, and if waiting is better at some gestational ages or for certain conditions causing compromise. Better methods for diagnosing problems may also help us to decide when it is best for the baby to be born. 
Delayed delivery may be better for mothers and babies, but further large trials are needed to check if it makes a difference to rare outcomes, such as the number of babies who die. Future trials should be high quality and report all important outcomes. 
