Sildenafil for pulmonary hypertension in neonates
Review question 
Is sildenafil safe and effective in newborn babies with pulmonary hypertension?
Background 
When a baby is born, pressure in the blood vessels of the lungs is high, and when normal breathing is established, this pressure starts to fall. In some babies, this transition does not occur and pressure remains high; this does not allow blood to go to the lungs to get adequate oxygen. This situation is called persistent pulmonary hypertension of the neonate (PPHN). Other events can lead to development of high pressure in lung blood vessels that can manifest within a few days after birth. Persistent high pressure in these vessels leads to delivery of less oxygen to all organs of the body. A medication called sildenafil may cause lung blood vessels to relax, allowing improved blood flow and improved delivery of oxygen to all organs. 
Study characteristics 
We identified five studies that evaluated effects of sildenafil: three studies that compared sildenafil with placebo (no sildenafil); one that compared sildenafil with other medication (magnesium sulphate); and one that used sildenafil in combination with another medicine (nitric oxide). These studies included 166 newborns and were conducted in Colombia, Mexico, Turkey, and Qatar. 
Key results 
Three studies that compared sildenafil and placebo (no sildenafil) reported that sildenafil reduced the number of deaths. Studies that compared sildenafil against another medication or that used another treatment with sildenafil described no significant reduction in the number of deaths. Sildenafil was more effective than placebo in improving oxygen levels. None of the five included studies reported safety concerns. However, these studies enrolled small numbers of infants, and most were conducted in settings where other treatments were not available. Sildenafil may be useful in settings where other treatment approaches are not available. However, additional studies are needed to compare sildenafil against existing treatment in a resourceful environment to assess its effectiveness and safety. 
