Does testing for cancer in people with unprovoked blood clots in the legs and lungs reduce cancer‐ and blood clot‐related death and illness? 
Key message 
This review found that there are too few trials to determine whether testing for undiagnosed cancer in people with a first unprovoked venous thromboembolism (VTE) is effective in reducing cancer‐ and VTE‐related deaths and illness. Further good‐quality and large‐scale studies are required. 
Why is this question important? 
Venous thromboembolism (VTE) refers to blood clots in leg veins (known as deep venous thrombosis (DVT)), which can travel to the lungs (causing pulmonary embolism (PE)). PE can often be fatal. Signs of DVT include pain and swelling of the leg while signs of PE include breathlessness and chest pain. Risk factors for VTE include surgery, prolonged bed rest, trauma, family history, pregnancy, and blood deficiencies. Sometimes a VTE happens for no apparent reason (it is unprovoked). In such people, undetected cancer may be the cause of the VTE. This has raised the question of whether people with an unprovoked VTE should be investigated for underlying cancer. This is important as the management of VTE in people with and without cancer differs. A cancer diagnosis would ensure people receive the optimal treatment to reduce the risk of another VTE. A diagnosis could also lead to the cancer being treated earlier, at a more curable stage. 
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled studies that assessed whether testing for undiagnosed cancer in people with a first unprovoked VTE (DVT or PE) was effective in reducing cancer and VTE‐related illness and death. In randomised controlled studies the treatments or tests people receive are decided at random and these usually give the most reliable evidence about treatment effects. 
What did we find? 
We found four studies with 1644 participants. Two studies compared extensive cancer tests with tests carried out at the physician's discretion and two studies compared cancer tests plus scanning with cancer tests alone. Combining the results of the two studies showed that extensive testing had no effect on the number of cancer‐related deaths. Additionally, extensive testing did not identify more people with cancer. However, extensive testing did identify cancers at an earlier stage (approximately 10 months earlier) and cancers were less advanced in people in the extensive testing group than in people in the group with tests carried out at the physician's discretion. Neither study looked at the number of deaths due to any cause, deaths and illness associated with VTE, side effects of cancer tests, side effects of VTE treatment or participant satisfaction. Two studies that compared tests plus scanning with tests alone showed that adding computed tomography scanning had little or no effect on the number of deaths, cancer‐related deaths, illness associated with VTE; nor did it identify more people with cancer, or show a clear difference in time to diagnosis or stages of cancer diagnosed. Neither study looked at deaths associated with VTE, side effects of cancer tests, side effects of VTE treatment, participant satisfaction or quality of life. 
