Exercise for treatment of chronic low back pain
Is exercise an effective therapy to treat long‐lasting low back pain? 
Key messages  
‐ Exercise probably reduces pain compared to no treatment, usual care or placebo in people with long‐lasting (chronic) low back pain. 
‐ Exercise may reduce pain and improve disability compared to common treatments such as electrotherapy or education. 
‐ There is a lot of research in this field but we need bigger and better designed studies to allow us to draw firm conclusions. 
How might exercise help people with long‐lasting low back pain?  
Long‐lasting (chronic) low back pain is a common cause of disability across the world and is expensive in terms of healthcare costs and lost working hours. Exercise therapy aims to increase muscle and joint strength, and improve muscle function and range of motion. This should reduce pain and disability, and speed recovery and return to usual activities. Exercise therapies are designed or prescribed by health professionals and cover a range of exercise types, durations, and delivery methods. Examples of exercise therapies include general physical fitness programmes delivered in a group setting, aerobic exercise in the form of walking programmes, and strengthening of specific muscles or groups of muscles to increase core stability. 
What did we want to find out?  
We wanted to know whether exercise improves pain and disability for people with chronic low back pain more than no treatment, usual care, placebo or other common treatments. In our review, chronic low back pain is pain that lasts three months or longer or that goes away but returns more than twice in one year. It does not have a specific cause such as a tumour or injury. Examples of common treatments are spinal manipulation, or psychological therapy. ‘Usual care’ is care provided by a family physician. 
What did we do?  We searched for studies that assessed the effects of exercise therapy on pain or disability compared to no treatment, usual care, placebo or other common treatments. People in the studies had to be adults with chronic low back pain. 
