Computerised cognitive training for preventing dementia in people with mild cognitive impairment 
Background 
The terms 'cognition' and 'cognitive function' describe all of the mental activities related to thinking, learning, remembering, and communicating. There are normal changes in cognition with age, There are also diseases that affect cognition, principally dementia, in which cognition is impaired to the point of affecting a person's ability to manage daily activities. More common than dementia is a condition often described as mild cognitive impairment (MCI), in which mild impairment of cognition, more than expected from age alone, can be detected on testing, but by which daily functioning is largely unaffected. For some people, MCI is a stage on the way to developing dementia. There is a lot of interest in anything that might prevent further decline in cognition in people with MCI. One thing that has been suggested as a means of doing this is computerised cognitive training (CCT). Cognitive training consists of a set of standardised tasks intended to 'exercise the brain' in various ways. These days, cognitive training exercises are often delivered via computers or mobile technology, so that people can do them on their own at home. We wanted to know whether CCT is an effective way for people with MCI to maintain their cognitive function and reduce their risk of going on to develop dementia. 
What we did 
We searched the medical literature up to 15 March 2018 for trials in which a group of people with MCI had participated in CCT for at least 12 weeks and had been compared with another group that had not received any CCT. This 'control' group could have taken part in an alternative activity instead, or group members could have received no intervention at all. For the comparison to be as fair as possible, it should have been decided at random whether people were in the CCT or control group. We were primarily interested in whether study participants developed dementia and in their overall cognitive function, but we also looked for evidence on particular cognitive skills, daily activities, quality of life, mood, or mental well‐being, and any harmful effects. 
What we found 
We found eight trials with 660 participants to include in the review. Seven of the trials (623 participants) compared CCT to an alternative activity. None of the included trials examined development of dementia, so this review presents no evidence on whether taking part in computerised cognitive training will help to prevent dementia. Our main finding in relation to all of the other outcomes in which we were interested was that the overall quality of the evidence was very low. This very low quality was mainly due to small sample sizes, problems with study methods, and differences between trials. Therefore, although we found some evidence for a few benefits of CCT for cognition, we were highly uncertain about study results and consider it likely that future research might lead to different results. 
