Use of oxygen during activities for people with lung scarring conditions
Review question 
Should oxygen be used for people with lung scarring conditions, known as interstitial lung disease (ILD), whose oxygen levels drop when they exercise? 
Background 
Many people with ILD have a drop in their oxygen levels when they are moving about. This is because of their lung scarring. Oxygen can be given, to be used only when people are moving about, to prevent this drop. This is called ambulatory oxygen. This may help to improve symptoms of breathlessness and their ability to exercise. It may also improve their quality of life. This Cochrane review examined the evidence for any effect of ambulatory oxygen on the ability to exercise, breathlessness and quality of life. Cochrane researchers searched the available evidence up to 4th May 2016. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We included only three studies, which had a total of 98 participants with ILD. All three studies compared the effects of both oxygen and air in all participants while they did an exercise test, while preventing them from knowing which treatment they were being given. Two studies showed no helpful effects on the ability to exercise or on symptoms of breathlessness. One study showed that participants could exercise for longer with oxygen. None of these studies looked at the effect of oxygen on quality of life, survival, the cost of oxygen treatment or its effects on hospital admissions. No adverse events were reported in any of the studies. 
We also looked for studies of oxygen given after exercise in people with ILD ("short burst oxygen"), but did not find any studies. 
Quality of the evidence 
There were some problems with the way these studies were conducted. The included studies were small. Also, two studies did not make sure that the amount of oxygen given was enough to prevent a drop in oxygen levels when the participants were exercising. This could mean that they were not given enough oxygen. The overall quality of evidence in this review was low. 
