Intracystic bleomycin for children with cystic craniopharyngiomas
Craniopharyngiomas are rare, slow‐growing, benign tumours in the hypothalamic‐pituitary region of the brain. Although they are benign, i.e. the tumour lacks the ability to invade neighbouring tissue or metastasise (spread to other sites), there is considerable morbidity and disability even when the tumour can be resected completely. Cystic craniopharyngiomas are the most common type of craniopharyngiomas. They consist of a solid portion that contains fluid‐filled balloon‐like structures (cysts). Cysts are a problem because secretion of fluid into them allows the tumour to increase in size, which puts pressure on parts of the brain and can cause damage. Radical resection (removal by surgery) alone is not sufficient because the rate of recurrence is high and this procedure has a high risk of endocrinological/neurological deficits such as blindness; loss of control of appetite, urine production, emotional behaviour and physical co‐ordination; memory loss; sleep disturbances; cessation of growth and sexual development; low thyroxine levels; hydrocephalus (high pressure inside the skull); and death. While in adults radiotherapy represents a valid postoperative adjunctive (additional) therapy, in children it has a high risk of side effects including further damage to any remaining sight, with reduction of intelligence quotient (IQ) and ability to perform complex tasks in later life. Intracystic bleomycin (i.e. a type of chemotherapeutic agent injected into the cyst) has been used to potentially decrease the damage associated with cystic craniopharyngioma. 
This systematic review focused on (randomised) controlled studies. We could not identify any randomised controlled trials (RCTs), quasi‐randomised trials or controlled clinical trials (CCTs) in which the only difference between the intervention and control group was the use of intracystic bleomycin. However, we did identify one RCT comparing intracystic bleomycin with intracystic phosphorus32 (32P), which is a radioactive isotope of phosphorous used for intracystic irradiation. Only seven children were included in this study. The study has a high risk of bias and the sample size is too small to detect a difference in outcomes. The therapeutic use of intracystic bleomycin in children with cystic craniopharyngiomas currently remains uncertain. Although there was no significant difference in total adverse effects between the two treatment groups, there was a significant difference in both headache and vomiting in favour of the 32P group. The quality of the evidence is, however, very low. More high‐quality studies are needed but will be difficult as so few children get these tumours. 
