Tissue graft surgery to treat a wing‐shaped growth (pterygium) in the eye
Review question  We reviewed the evidence to see which surgery used to treat pterygium (a growth in the eye) is better and safer? We wanted to known which surgery was better at preventing the pterygium from growing back. 
Background  A pterygium is a wing‐shaped growth in the outer layer of an eye from the corner of the eye and crosses the border between the white of the eye and the iris (the colored part of the eye). Its cause is believed to be exposure to ultraviolet light from the sun. The growth is more common in men and older people. If the pterygium is large enough, seeing can be difficult. It also can make the patient feel that their eye is irritated, dry, or has something in it. It also can cause cosmetic concerns. In some people, the pterygium grows to cover the entire front of the eye and makes it hard to see. 
Surgery is required to treat this growth. Even after surgery, it can grow back. When the doctor removes only the growth and leaves the spot underneath exposed, the growth returns in about 80% of patients. A new surgery technique removes the growth and then covers the spot with tissue. This surgery is called a tissue graft. When a tissue graft is used to cover the bare spot, the pterygium does not regrow in as many eyes as when the spot is left bare. 
There are two types of tissue graft surgery: conjunctival autograft surgery (CAG) and amniotic membrane transplant (AMT). The purpose of this review was to compare recurrence of pterygium after these two types of tissue graft. 
In CAG, tissue from another part of the patient’s eye is removed and then placed over the bare spot that was left where the pterygium was removed. In AMT, tissue from a baby’s placenta after childbirth is used to cover this bare spot. The surgeon gets this tissue from a tissue bank. 
Study characteristics  We considered the type of pterygium surgery to be better if it the pterygium returned in a smaller proportion of people at three and six months after the surgery. We searched online databases of published medical articles to find studies that had assigned participants to one of the two surgeries. We included in our review only the studies in which the participants were assigned randomly to their surgery, so that they had an equal chance of being assigned to either one. Study participants could have this growth for the first time (primary pterygium) or could need another surgery because their growth had returned previous surgery. The evidence is current to November 2015. 
Key results  We found 20 studies that compared the two surgeries in a total of 1947 eyes. We combined information from the studies to determine which surgery was better. Six months after surgery, the pterygium returned only one third to over half as often in people who had CAG surgery than in people who had AMT surgery. This difference could not be explained by chance alone. 
The studies we found did not answer all of our questions. We still want to know the effects of the surgeries on clarity of vision, quality of vision, quality of life and costs. More research studies are needed that answer these questions. 
Quality of the evidence  The overall quality of the evidence in favor of CAG is low to moderate because of issues in the conduct of the studies and results were sometimes not similar across studies. Future published research may have an impact on the conclusions provided in this review. 
