Capsaicin for non‐allergic rhinitis
Review question 
Is capsaicin applied into the nose (intranasal) effective in the management of non‐allergic rhinitis compared with no therapy, placebo or other topical or systemic medications? 
Background 
Rhinitis means inflammation of the nose. It affects 30% to 40% of the general population. There are many forms of rhinitis: rhinosinusitis (or simply sinusitis), allergic rhinitis and non‐allergic rhinitis. Non‐allergic rhinitis is diagnosed in patients who have negative tests for allergies and also do not have sinusitis. The symptoms include congestion of the nose, a blocked or obstructed sensation in the nose that causes difficulty breathing, clear nasal discharge (runny nose), sneezing and nasal itching. There are several subtypes of non‐allergic rhinitis: occupational (from exposure to chemicals), smoking, gustatory (related to eating food or drinking fluid), hormonal (from changes in hormone levels in the body), pregnancy, senile or elderly (mostly affecting the older population), medication‐induced (for example, from overuse of decongestant nasal sprays) and local allergic (local allergy in the nose, while skin or blood allergy tests are negative). The most common subtype of non‐allergic rhinitis is 'idiopathic' or 'vasomotor' rhinitis, which results from imbalance of the neural (nerve) system that manages the function of the nose. The mechanisms of many of these subtypes remain unknown. Non‐allergic rhinitis affects about 25% to 50% of patients with rhinitis and is therefore very common. 
Capsaicin is the active ingredient of chili peppers. It has medicinal properties and is used elsewhere in medicine, for example for neuralgias (nerve pain) and psoriasis (a skin disease). The side effects of using capsaicin in the nose include irritation, burning, sneezing and coughing, however there are no known long‐term side effects of capsaicin use. Capsaicin is given in the form of brief treatments, usually during the same day. It works by down‐regulating transient receptor potential vanilloid (TRPV) receptor expression on C‐sensory fibres. TRPV represents special ion channels involved in the sensations of pain, cold, hotness, tastes, pressure and vision. C fibres help to conduct some of these sensations. There is ongoing research into the effects of capsaicin on these mechanisms and its clinical uses. 
Study characteristics 
We included four studies involving 302 patients with idiopathic non‐allergic rhinitis. All the included studies described patients with moderately severe idiopathic non‐allergic rhinitis, who were between the ages of 16 and 65. The studies had a follow‐up ranging from four to 38 weeks after treatment. 
Key results 
Individually, the studies reported that the overall function of the nose in patients with non‐allergic rhinitis improved when treated with capsaicin compared to placebo. Capsaicin also seems to work better than another common type of nasal medication, budesonide (a steroid). The best knowledge that we have on capsaicin treatment supports giving it five times in one day, and to use doses of at least 4 micrograms in each puff. We could not combine the results together. The included studies did not have sufficient information to allow us to draw a conclusion about side effects. We also wanted to include other outcomes (e.g. quality of life measures, treatment dropouts, endoscopic scores, turbinate or mucosal size, cost of therapy), but none of these were measured or reported in the included studies. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, we judged the quality of the evidence to be of low to moderate quality. The evidence is up to date to June 2015. 
Conclusions 
Given that many other options do not work well in non‐allergic rhinitis, capsaicin is a reasonable option to try under physician supervision. 
