Key results  A total of 1095 participants were randomised to local anaesthetic wound infiltration (587 participants) or no local anaesthetic wound infiltration (508 participants) in 17 trials. The choice of whether the participants received local anaesthetic agents (or not) was determined by a method similar to the toss of a coin so that the treatments were compared in groups of patients who were as similar as possible. There were no deaths in either group in the seven trials (539 participants) that reported deaths. The difference in serious complications between the groups was imprecise. There were no local anaesthetic‐related complications in nearly 450 participants who received local anaesthetic wound infiltration in the different trials that reported complications. None of the trials reported quality of life or the time taken to return to work. The proportion of participants who were discharged as day surgery patients was higher in the local anaesthetic group than in the control group in the only trial that reported this information. The difference in the length of hospital stay or the time taken to return to normal activity was imprecise. Pain was lower in the participants who received intra‐abdominal local anaesthetic administration compared with those in the control groups at four to eight hours and at nine to 24 hours, as measured by the visual analogue scale (a chart which rates the amount of pain on a scale of 1 to 10). In the comparisons of different methods of local anaesthetic infiltration, there were differences between the groups in some outcomes but the changes were not consistent. There is, therefore, no evidence to prefer any particular drug or method of administering local anaesthetics. Serious adverse events were rare in studies evaluating local anaesthetic wound infiltration. There is very low quality evidence that infiltration reduces pain in low anaesthetic risk people undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy. However, the clinical importance of this reduction in pain is likely to be small. 