Laparoscopic‐endoscopic rendezvous or preoperative endoscopic sphincterotomy before removing the gallbladder for gall stones or bile duct stones 
Background 
Only one out of every five to ten people who experiences colicky abdominal pain has stones in the gallbladder or the common bile duct. These biliary stones may lead to cholecystitis (inflammation of the gallbladder), cholangitis (infection of the bile duct), hepatic abscess (abscess in the liver), or acute pancreatitis (infection of the pancreas). 
There are different techniques used to remove the stones; standard laparotomy (incision in the abdomen), laparoscopic surgery, and endoscopic surgery. Laparoscopic surgery, also called minimally invasive surgery, is a modern surgical technique, in which abdominal operations are performed through long, rigid instruments, inserted through small incisions (usually 0.5 to 1.2 cm) in the abdominal wall. Endoscopy is a more general term, which describes a technique that enables a physician to examine the inside of a hollow organ, by inserting an instrument, generally flexible, through natural body openings. For biliary stones, endoscopy is performed by passing a scope, with a light, through the mouth and down the digestive tract, The physician can see where the biliary tract (liver, bile duct, and pancreas) meets the duodenum (beginning of the small intestine), which makes it easier to pass a tube, through which stones can be removed. The injection of radiologic contrast medium highlights the biliary ducts and their content. This procedure is called endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP). 
A laparotomy is used if laparoscopic surgery is contraindicated. Otherwise, the procedure involves two stages: first, endoscopic removal of stones from the bile duct, followed by laparoscopic cholecystectomy (removal of gallbladder). A combined endoscopic and laparoscopic procedure, called a laparoscopic‐endoscopic rendezvous technique, has been associated with fewer adverse effects, less patient discomfort, and shorter hospital stay. 
