Surgical management of pelvic organ prolapse in women
Review question 
To determine the safety and effectiveness of surgery for anterior vaginal wall prolapse.  Background 
Pelvic organ prolapse occurs in up to 50% of women who have given birth. This can happen at different sites within the vagina; prolapse of the anterior compartment is most difficult to repair, and rates of recurrence are higher than at other vaginal sites. This challenge has resulted in the use of a variety of surgical techniques and grafts to improve outcomes of anterior compartment prolapse surgery. We aimed to evaluate surgical interventions for anterior compartment prolapse. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane authors included in this review 33 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) evaluating 3332 surgeries to compare traditional native tissue anterior repair versus biological grafts (eight trials), absorbable mesh (three trials), permanent (polypropylene) mesh (16 trials) and abdominal paravaginal repair (two trials). Four trials compared a transvaginal graft versus another transvaginal graft, and four trials evaluated native tissue repair of anterior and/or posterior compartments of the vagina versus graft repair. Evidence is current to 23 August 2016. 
Key results 
Biological graft repair or absorbable mesh provides minimal advantage compared with native tissue repair. Results showed no evidence of differences between biological graft and native tissue repair in rates of awareness of prolapse or repeat surgery for prolapse. However, the recurrent anterior prolapse rate was higher after native tissue repair than after any biological graft. This suggests that if awareness of prolapse after biological graft occurs in 12% of women, 7% to 23% would be aware of prolapse after native tissue repair. 
Permanent mesh resulted in lower rates of awareness of prolapse, recurrent anterior wall prolapse and repeat surgery for prolapse compared with native tissue repair. However, native tissue repair was associated with reduced risk of new stress urinary incontinence. Other benefits of native tissue repair included reduced bladder injury and reduced rates of repeat surgery for prolapse, stress urinary incontinence and mesh exposure (as a combined outcome). 
