Vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) supplementation in pregnancy or labour for maternal and neonatal outcomes 
This review could not provide evidence from randomised controlled trials that routine supplementation with vitamin B6 during pregnancy is of any benefit, other than one trial suggesting protection against dental decay. It may cause harm if too much is taken, as amounts well above the recommended daily allowance are associated with numbness and difficulty in walking. 
Vitamin B6 is a water‐soluble vitamin which plays vital roles in numerous metabolic processes in the human body and helps with the development of the nervous system. Vitamin B6 is contained in many foods including meat, poultry, fish, vegetables, and bananas. It is thought that B6 may play a role in the prevention of pre‐eclampsia, where the mother’s blood pressure is high with large amounts of protein in the urine or other organ dysfunction, and in babies being born too early (preterm birth). Vitamin B6 may be helpful for reducing nausea in pregnancy. This review of four trials (involving 1646 pregnant women) assessed routine B6 supplementation during pregnancy with the aim of reducing the chances of pre‐eclampsia and preterm birth. Vitamin B6 as oral capsules or lozenges resulted in a decreased risk of dental decay in pregnant women in one trial. Lozenges had a greater effect, suggesting a local or topical effect of pyridoxine within the oral cavity. We did not find any clear differences in the risk of eclampsia or pre‐eclampsia (three trials and two trials, respectively, low quality evidence). The studies did not have enough data to be able to make any other useful assessments. 
The included trials were conducted between 1960 and 1983 and did not include important newborn outcomes that have only recently been associated with vitamin B6, such as decreases in cardiovascular malformations and orofacial clefts. The trials began at different times during pregnancy, most had high rates of loss to follow‐up, and adverse effects of vitamin B6 (pyridoxine) use were not assessed. 
