Interventions for treating restless legs syndrome in patients with chronic kidney disease 
What is the issue? 
People with restless legs syndrome (RLS) have an irresistible urge to move their limbs to relieve themselves of unpleasant sensations. RLS is common in chronic kidney disease (CKD) patients, however the cause is unknown. Patients with RLS often have reduced quality of life and increased risk of developing heart disease. 
Medications such as dopamine agonists, benzodiazepines, anti‐epileptics, iron and non‐pharmacological agents such as exercise that were used to treat primary RLS were also used to treat RLS in CKD patients. However, these agents may be unsuitable to CKD patients due to associated co‐morbidity and altered pharmacokinetics in CKD patients. 
What did we do? 
We searched Cochrane Kidney and Transplant's Specialised Register to 12 January 2016. Nine studies reported enrolling 220 stable, adult haemodialysis patients of both sexes, were included in the review. 
What did we find? 
The quality of the studies was deemed to be moderate. Of the nine studies, one was sponsored by a pharmaceutical company and funding sources were reported for only two other studies. The included studies were heterogeneous, small in size and had short follow‐up periods. 
The interventions studied included exercise, gabapentin, ropinirole, levodopa, iron dextran, and vitamins C and E (individually and in combination). All interventions reduced the severity of RLS compared to a control. Intradialytic aerobic exercise reduced the severity of RLS however the safety of this intervention is unclear. Resistance exercise did not improve sleep quality but improved the mental health component on a quality of life questionnaire. This improvement in mental health component was not significant when compared to no exercise or ropinirole. Ropinirole reduced the symptoms of RLS and improved quality of sleep without any reported side effects. Gabapentin and levodopa improved the symptoms of RLS; however there were several adverse events reported included lethargy, drowsiness and fatigue for gabapentin, and vomiting, agitation, headaches, dry mouth, and gastrointestinal symptoms for levodopa. Iron dextran infusion reduced the symptoms of RLS but was only significant up to two weeks after treatment. Vitamin C, E and their combination also reduced RLS symptoms with minimal side effects. Small size and short duration of follow‐up were the major drawbacks of these studies. 
