Fibrin glue versus sutures for conjunctival autografting in primary pterygium surgery
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if it is better to use fibrin glue or sutures (stitches) when operating on a pterygium (unwanted growth of tissue on the front of the eye). The operation involves replacing the pterygium with a piece of tissue from another part of the eye (autograft). Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 14 studies. 
Key messages  Using fibrin glue when doing the graft may result in a lower chance of recurrence of the pterygium. The operation may take less time as well. Fibrin glue may be associated with more complications such as a rupture of the graft, the graft shrinking and the development of an area of inflammation (granuloma). 
What was studied in the review?  Sometimes a piece of tissue can grow on the front of the eye, and if it grows large enough it can affect vision. This tissue is known as a pterygium. People who live in hot, dusty places with high sunlight are more likely to get a pterygium. A pterygium can be uncomfortable and itchy, and may affect the appearance of the eye. 
Doctors can remove this tissue and replace it with tissue from another part of the body, usually from another part of the conjunctiva (which covers the white part of the eye). This is known as a graft or autograft. 
Cochrane researchers looked at two different methods of attaching this graft during pterygium surgery, either with fibrin glue or with stitches. 
What are the main results of the review?  The review authors found 14 relevant studies. The studies were from Brazil, China, Egypt, India, Malaysia, New Zealand, Philippines, Saudi Arabia, Sweden and Turkey. These studies compared fibrin glue to stitches in people having their pterygium removed and a graft of tissue from the conjunctiva. 
Using fibrin glue during pterygium surgery may result in fewer cases of recurrence of pterygium compared with using stitches (low‐certainty evidence). It may take less time to do a pterygium operation and graft with fibrin glue (low‐certainty evidence). There may be a higher chance of some complications with fibrin glue, such as a rupture of the graft, the graft shrinking or development of an area of inflammation (granuloma). 
