Aminoadamantanes for chronic hepatitis C
Background 
Hepatitis C virus is mainly transmitted by contact with infected blood. Chronic hepatitis C infection affects around 3% of the world's population and progresses slowly. Most patients present without symptoms, or with symptoms like fatigue or liver‐related morbidity (illness). Frequently, the disease is discovered by coincidence because of abnormal laboratory results. Between 5% and 40% of all infected patients will develop severe liver damage, which can cause severe liver‐related morbidities and eventually death. Current treatment consists of pegylated interferon‐alpha plus ribavirin, and in some groups of patients these two agents are administered in combination with antiviral drugs such as telaprevir or boceprevir. It is then possible to eradicate the virus from the blood in at least 70% of patients with chronic hepatitis C, but the clinical effects are not known. 
Review questions and study characteristics 
Only amantadine has been tested in randomised clinical trials including participants with chronic hepatitis C. The main goal of these trials was to investigate whether amantadine as a single therapy or amantadine in combination with other antiviral therapy, compared with placebo or no intervention (with or without antiviral therapy), could increase the proportion of patients with virus eradication from the blood. This review evaluates whether amantadine has any beneficial or harmful effect in patients with chronic hepatitis C. The primary outcomes were all‐cause mortality or liver‐related morbidity (combined outcome) and adverse events. The review includes 41 randomised clinical trials with a total of 6193 patients. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
This review shows that there seems to be no significant benefit of amantadine on hepatitis C‐infected patients regarding all‐cause mortality or liver‐related morbidity. We were unable to assess the effect of amantadine on quality of life due to lack of data from the trials. Furthermore, amantadine did not increase the proportion of patients with a sustained virological response which is clearance of the virus from the blood six months after treatment. We considered all the included trials to have a high risk of bias. Accordingly, the evidence from this review does not support the routine clinical use of amantadine. There is some justification for amantadine to be used in future randomised clinical trials. We found no randomised clinical trials assessing other aminoadamantanes, for example rimantadine. 
