Do group‐based smoking cessation programmes help people to stop smoking?
Background 
One approach to help people who are trying to quit smoking is to offer them group‐based support. Participants meet regularly, with a facilitator who is typically trained in smoking cessation counselling. Programme components are varied. A perceived strength of this approach is that participants provide each other with support and encouragement. The outcome of interest was not smoking at least six months from the start of the group programme. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 66 trials comparing group‐based programmes to other types of support, or comparing different types of group programme. The most recent search was in May 2016. 
Results & quality of evidence 
In 13 trials (4395 participants) people in the control conditions were provided with a self‐help programme. There was a benefit for the group‐based approach, with the chance of quitting increased by 50% to 130%. This means that if five in 100 people were able to quit for at least six months using self‐help materials, eight to 12 in 100 might be successful if offered group support. We judged the quality of this evidence as moderate, because studies did not report methods in enough detail to exclude possible bias. There was also evidence of a benefit of group support compared to advice and brief support from a healthcare professional (14 trials, 7286 participants), although the difference was smaller and more variable. We rated this as low‐quality evidence, because of the variability as well as possible risk of bias. There was also low‐quality evidence of a benefit in studies that did not provide the control group with any help to quit (9 trials, 1098 participants). Six trials (980 participants) compared group format with individual face‐to‐face counselling; there was no sign that one approach was more helpful than the other. The remaining studies compared different types of group programmes; typically they did not show differences, so it is not possible to show which components of group‐based programmes are most helpful. 
