Revascularisation of the left subclavian artery for thoracic endovascular aortic repair
Background 
The thoracic aorta is the largest blood vessel in the chest. It originates from the heart and supplies blood to the whole body. It can be affected by several diseases, including an aneurysm, which is an enlargement of a weakened section of the aorta, and dissection, which occurs when a tear in the aortic lining causes blood to flow between the layers of the wall of the aorta, forcing the layers apart. The traditional treatment of these conditions is open surgical repair. Thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) has evolved as an alternative treatment for a wide variety of aortic diseases. It is less invasive than open surgery, and involves inserting an artificial graft (a tube composed of fabric) into the thoracic aorta through an artery in the groin (the femoral artery), to help reinforce the aortic wall. A significant proportion of patients with thoracic aortic disease have abnormalities close to, or involving the origin of the left subclavian artery (LSA; one of the branches of the thoracic aorta). In these situations, the aortic stent graft needs to be placed close to the LSA, thereby blocking the blood vessel opening. This can potentially result in reduced blood supply to the brain and spinal cord, causing stroke and spinal cord ischaemia (spinal cord stroke). This review aimed to look at the value of a surgical bypass, which can provide an alternative route for blood supply (revascularisation) to the brain and spinal cord in cases of TEVAR, where the LSA is covered. 
Controversy exists as to whether routine revascularisation of the LSA, with a surgical bypass, results in improved outcomes in patients undergoing TEVAR, as measured by a reduced risk of stroke and paraplegia (paralysis of the legs). Even though preemptive LSA revascularisation has theoretical advantages, it is not without risks, including nerve damage, bleeding, and graft infection. The Society for Vascular Surgery Practice Guidelines recommend routine revascularisation of the LSA in non‐emergency TEVAR, where the LSA origin is covered. However, this recommendation was based on very low‐quality evidence. 
We undertook a comprehensive, systematic search of the pertinent literature to identify the best available evidence and had planned to synthesise outcome data from randomised controlled trials (RCTs), in order to assist clinicians and patients to make evidence‐based decisions. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We did not identify any RCTs investigating our study question (evidence current until June 2015). The best available evidence comes from non‐randomised comparative studies. There is a need for high quality RCTs providing more robust evidence. 
