Risk assessment tools used for preventing pressure ulcers
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out what effect the use of risk assessment tools has on the development of new pressure ulcers, among people at risk of pressure ulcer development. Many different pressure ulcer risk assessment tools are used in clinical practice and it is not known which one is the best. Researchers from Cochrane collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question and found two relevant studies. 
Key messages 
We cannot be certain whether the use of a risk assessment tool makes any difference to the number of new pressure ulcers that develop among people who are at risk. The certainty of evidence ranged from low to very low. 
What was studied in the review? 
Pressure ulcers (also known as bed sores, pressure sores, pressure injuries and decubitus ulcers) are areas of localised injury to the skin and underlying tissue, usually over a bony part of the body such as the hip or heel. These ulcers develop as a result of pressure, or pressure in combination with shear forces (squeezing and stretching soft tissues between bony structures and the skin). Pressure ulcers mainly occur in people who have limited mobility or nerve damage, such as older people, people with spinal injuries, or long‐term hospital patients. Pressure ulcer risk assessment is part of the process used to identify individuals at risk of developing a pressure ulcer. Use of a risk assessment tool is recommended by many international guidelines on pressure ulcer prevention. Different tools are used for pressure ulcer risk assessment. We wanted to find out which is the most effective in preventing pressure ulcers from developing. We also wanted to find out which risk assessment tools reduced the time for a pressure ulcer to develop and the severity of the pressure ulcer. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found two relevant studies, dating from 2009 and 2011. Both of the included studies had three arms. One study compared Braden risk assessment and training, to training and risk assessment using clinical judgement, or risk assessment using clinical judgement alone. The second study compared Waterlow risk assessment to Ramstadius risk assessment, or risk assessment using clinical judgement. The studies involved 1,487 people at risk of developing pressure ulcers. In the first study, no information was provided on age or gender distribution. In the second study, 50.3% (619) of the participants were male, with an average age of 62.6 years. The first study did not state any source of funding. The second study was funded by research grants from the Queensland Nursing Council, the Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital Private Practice Fund, the Royal Brisbane and Women’s Hospital Research Foundation and a Queensland Health Nursing Research Grant. 
