Does treating reduced blood flow to the legs using cells taken from the bone marrow help improve symptoms? 
Why is this question important? 
Critical limb ischaemia, or critical limb‐threatening ischaemia, occurs when blood flow to the legs is reduced because of the worsening of peripheral arterial disease. Initially, patients experience cramping leg pain that limits walking (known as intermittent claudication), but over time some patients will experience more severe symptoms including pain at rest, leg ulceration, and gangrene. The available treatment options are very limited when the disease reaches this stage, especially when surgical or catheter revascularisation (a procedure to restore blood flow in blocked arteries or veins) is not an option. Many of these patients will go on to have the affected limb amputated. The use of mononuclear cell therapy (using the patient’s own cells) offers the possibility of an alternative treatment for patients, by supplying cells that could stimulate the formation of stable capillary vessels to improve the blood flow in the affected limb. These cells can be obtained from the bone marrow. They are purified in a laboratory and injected into the large muscle at the back of the lower leg. 
What did we find? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (a type of study where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) that compared treating people using selected bone marrow cells with control (either no intervention, conventional conservative therapy, or placebo (dummy treatment)). We found four studies with a combined total of 176 participants testing the safety and effectiveness of this treatment. The studies compared the cell therapy to different controls. Our analysis showed there is no clear effect of cell therapy on death from any cause. The studies measured pain in different ways, and not all information was reported, so we were unable to pool the data. Individually, three studies did not find any difference in the reduction of pain between the therapy and control groups. One study reported that pain was reduced more in the cell therapy group than in the control group. Pooling data from all four studies showed that cell therapy might reduce amputations, but we are not certain about this because the possible benefit was lost when we redid the analysis excluding data from studies we had concerns about. Three studies reported no improvements in the ankle‐brachial index (a way to measure the blood flow in the leg), whilst one study reported a greater improvement in the ankle‐brachial index in the cell therapy group compared to the control group. No improvements were seen in pain‐free walking distance between groups. No clear difference was seen in side effects between groups. 
How confident are we in the evidence? 
Our confidence in the evidence was very low because of concerns about how the studies were carried out. The four included studies differed from each other in how they measured effects at different time points; they used different controls; there were small numbers of events and participants overall; and there were differences in individual study results. 
