Sliding scale insulin for non‐critically ill hospitalised adults with diabetes mellitus
Review question 
What are the effects of sliding scale insulin compared with other insulin therapies for non‐critically ill hospitalised adults with diabetes mellitus? 
Background 
There are several options to treat people with diabetes who have been admitted to the hospital. Both low glucose levels (hypoglycaemia) and high glucose levels (hyperglycaemia) might increase the risk of death and complications such as infections and longer hospital stay and therefore should be avoided. The most common method to treat hospitalised people with diabetes is sliding scale insulin therapy. The term 'sliding scale' refers to the increasing administration of the pre‐meal insulin dose based on the blood sugar level before the meal. For example, if a person has a blood glucose level between 140 mg/dL to 180 mg/dL, a short‐acting usual insulin dose could be 4 units insulin, and for a blood glucose level between 181 mg/dL and 220 mg/dL, it could be 6 units insulin. This kind of rigid insulin application usually fixes the amount of carbohydrate to be eaten at each meal but does not deliver insulin in a physiologic manner. It is therefore doubtful whether good glycaemic control (satisfactory blood glucose levels) can be achieved by sliding scale insulin in hospitalised diabetic people and whether this approach results in better outcomes in the long term. There are other insulin strategies like background (basal) insulin doses combined with flexible pre‐meal insulin (bolus insulin) according to what and how much people want to eat. Sliding scale insulin means strict adherence to a regular schedule of meals and physical activity, and people must follow a prescribed diet. Intensified insulin therapy (basal‐bolus strategy) allows flexible insulin doses according to physical activity, stress, and meal preferences, and under hospital conditions demands well‐trained medical staff. Sliding scale insulin is still widely used, and it remains unclear which insulin strategy is best to treat hospitalised diabetic people. 
