Surgical versus medical interventions for chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps
Background 
Nasal polyps are common, benign swellings of the lining of the nose. In some people they may cause no symptoms, but in others they may lead to nasal obstruction, congestion, facial pressure and anosmia (loss of sense of smell). The incidence of symptomatic nasal polyps increases with age and they are more common in men than in women. The cause of nasal polyps is not fully understood but they may be a result of chronic (long‐term) inflammation of the lining of the nose (termed 'chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps'). Chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps can be treated medically, for example with drugs such as topical (intranasal) steroid sprays, or with surgery (for example, nasal polypectomy with or without endoscopic sinus surgery (ESS)). However, it is unclear what is the most effective management strategy. 
Study characteristics 
Four randomised controlled trials, involving a total of 231 patients with chronic rhinosinusitis with nasal polyps, are included in this review. The number of patients in each study ranged from 34 to 109. The studies took place in ENT departments in several European countries. All patients were adults and most of the studies enrolled more men than women. In all studies the patients were randomly assigned to either surgery or medical treatment (such as antibiotics or steroid tablets or injections) in addition to topical steroids given as nasal sprays or drops. Both the type of surgery performed and the medical treatments used varied widely between the studies, and did not allow all of the studies to be looked at together. Rather, we considered the treatment groups in the four studies as three separate pairs of comparisons instead of simply 'surgical' versus 'medical' treatments. 
Key results 
The main outcome measures were patient‐reported disease‐specific symptom scores and health‐related quality of life scores, as well as generic health‐related quality of life scores. There were no important differences between groups in either the patient‐reported disease‐specific symptom scores or the health‐related quality of life scores. Two studies (one comparing ESS plus topical steroid versus antibiotics plus high‐dose topical steroid, the other ESS versus systemic steroids) did not find a difference in general health‐related quality of life scores. 
Two studies reported changes in polyp size (when looked at with an endoscope) using a score. One study (ESS versus systemic steroids) reported a significantly better score in the surgery group than in the steroids group at 12 months. In the other study (ESS plus topical steroid versus antibiotics plus high‐dose topical steroid) no difference was found between the groups. 
