Integrated disease management for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
What are the effects of integrated disease management (IDM) programmes on quality of life, ability to exercise, and number of lung attacks compared to usual care in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD)? 
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a chronic lung disease and is a major cause of ill health worldwide. People with COPD feel the impact of the disease in their daily life through symptoms such as breathlessness and coughing and acute worsening of symptoms in lung attacks. 
Different healthcare providers, such as doctors, nurses, and physiotherapists, typically provide different types of care to people with COPD (e.g. prescribe medication, guide self‐management, provide education, present exercise training). Previously, people with COPD could visit one or more different healthcare providers, and these providers would work independently. The goal of an integrated disease management (IDM) programme is to include different components of care by which different healthcare providers are co‐operating and collaborating to provide more efficient care of better quality. 
Study characteristics 
We evaluated 52 studies involving 21,086 people with COPD. These studies were conducted in 19 countries spread all over the world. The average age of participants was 67 years, and 66% of participants were men. Some studies took place in general practices, some in hospitals, and some in both settings. 
Key results 
We found that people who participate in an IDM programme probably have better quality of life and their ability to exercise is probably improved compared to those receiving usual care. It is likely that people in an IDM programme have fewer hospital admissions for lung attacks and make fewer visits to an emergency department. When hospitalised, the total number of days people have to spend in hospital is reduced by two days. IDM programmes probably do not help to reduce the number of patients who die. The variety of available programmes makes it difficult to say if one IDM programme is the best. 
Future studies should look at the most important components and the ideal length of the programme. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, the certainty of our evidence was moderate to high but sometimes with large differences between studies. 
This plain language summary is up‐to‐date as of February 2021.
