Ranolazine for people with stable angina pectoris
Review question 
We wanted to find out if ranolazine (a drug to prevent angina) was more effective than a fake drug (placebo) or other drugs to treat stable angina. 
Background 
Angina pectoris is sudden chest pain caused when the heart does not get enough oxygen or from other stresses. People with stable angina have a predictable pattern of when they experience angina symptoms. Angina is made worse by physical effort and relieved by rest or some medications. Ranolazine is a relatively new drug for people with angina pectoris who are already taking other drugs to treat angina. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to February 2016.
Study funding sources 
Most studies were either fully (9/17) or partly (3/17) funded by drug companies, two received no external funding, and three did not declare sources of funding. 
Study characteristics 
We included 17 studies that involved a total of 9975 adult participants and lasted between 1 and 92 weeks. 
Key results 
We only compared ranolazine and placebo because there were few data for other comparisons. The evidence was uncertain about the effect of ranolazine 1000 mg given alone twice daily to people with stable angina pectoris on the chance of dying from heart‐related causes. There was no evidence about whether ranolazine changed the risk of dying from causes that were not heart‐related. 
Although the evidence was uncertain about the effect of ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily on the chance of dying from any cause, quality of life, the possibility of heart attack or the frequency of angina attacks (for ranolazine taken alone), ranolazine did modestly reduce the numbers of angina attacks per week when given with other anti‐angina drugs. Ranolazine 1000 mg twice daily increased the risk for experiencing dizziness, nausea and constipation from taking the drug (mild adverse events). 
Quality of evidence 
Overall, evidence quality was assessed as very low for the chance of mild adverse events (for people who took ranolazine alone). Evidence was also low for estimating the chance of death from heart‐related (when ranolazine is taken alone) or any causes, having a heart attack, and how often angina attacks occur (when ranolazine is taken alone). We found moderate quality evidence about quality of life, frequency of angina attacks and the chance of experiencing mild adverse events (for people who took ranolazine together with other anti‐angina drugs), 
Low evidence quality related to problems and reporting of study methods and too few data to calculate precise estimates. 
