Which medicines are most effective for women trying to get pregnant by ‘intrauterine insemination’ (where sperm is placed directly in the womb)? 
Key messages 
‐ ‘Fertility medicines’ are the range of hormones and medicines used to help women get pregnant. This review shows that, in a comparison of two widely‐used fertility medicines – gonadotropins and anti‐oestrogens – gonadotropins probably increase the number of live births. 
‐ We have little to no confidence in the evidence comparing the effectiveness of other fertility medicines, both for live birth and multiple pregnancy (expecting more than one baby) rates. 
‐ To improve the evidence, future studies of intrauterine insemination (where sperm is placed directly in the womb) should compare fertility medicines with a placebo (dummy drug). More studies comparing anti‐oestrogens with aromatase inhibitors (another widely‐used fertility drug) are also needed. 
What is infertility? 
Infertility is when a woman is unable to get pregnant after 1 year (or longer) of regular, unprotected sex. Sometimes, doctors distinguish between older and younger women, since natural fertility declines with age. Some providers treat women aged 35 years or older for infertility after 6 months of unprotected sex. 
How is infertility treated? 
Treatment for infertility depends on what may be causing it. Our review focused on intrauterine insemination combined with various fertility medicines. Fertility medicines work by causing the release of hormones that prompt ovulation – that is, the release of an egg from the ovary. Intrauterine insemination is where sperm is placed directly into the uterus (womb) using a thin, flexible plastic tube inserted through the vagina and cervix. 
There are many different fertility medicines. The ones most commonly prescribed include:
‐ gonadotropins (injectable hormones started early in the menstrual cycle to cause multiple eggs to grow to a mature size); 
‐ anti‐oestrogens and aromatase inhibitors (oral medicines used to trigger ovulation);
‐ gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists and antagonists (medicines used to regulate egg development and ovulation). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out which fertility medicines, combined with intrauterine insemination, are most effective, for women who release an egg during menstruation (ovulatory women). 
