Antiarrhythmics for maintaining sinus rhythm (normal heartbeat) after reversing atrial fibrillation (correcting an irregular heartbeat) 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of antiarrhythmic medicines on mortality (death), stroke, side effects that cause people to stop taking the medicine and recurrences of irregular heartbeat, in people who had recovered normal heart rhythm after having atrial fibrillation (a type of irregular heartbeat). 
Background 
Atrial fibrillation is a disease where the heart rhythm is irregular (called arrhythmia) and often, but not always, too fast. Atrial fibrillation may produce complications, either in the heart (heart failure, fainting) or in other organs by causing embolisms. Embolisms are blood clots that form in the cavities of the heart which may then travel to other places, for example the brain. 
Atrial fibrillation can be reverted, restoring normal heart rhythm, by using medicines or a controlled electrical shock. However, a major problem is that atrial fibrillation frequently recurs. A variety of medicines have been used to avoid these recurrences and keep the normal heart rhythm. 
Study characteristics 
This is an update of a review previously published in 2006, 2012 and 2015, and includes results of a search for new studies in January 2019. We found 59 studies testing various antiarrhythmic drugs and involving 20,981 participants. The average age of participants was 65 years. The most frequent diseases were hypertension (high blood pressure) and diseases of the arteries and valves of the heart. We found studies for nine medicines: quinidine, disopyramide, propafenone, flecainide, metoprolol, amiodarone, dofetilide, dronedarone and sotalol. 
Key results and certainty of the evidence 
High‐certainty evidence from five studies found that deaths from any cause were twice as high in people taking sotalol compared with people taking a placebo (dummy treatment) or no treatment. We calculated that one extra person would die for every 102 people taking sotalol for one year. Evidence for quinidine was low certainty, but the average effect across six studies suggested that people who took quinidine may have a higher risk of death compared with people taking no treatment or placebo. However, the evidence was not strong enough to rule out the possibility that there was no increased risk of death with quinidine. We found few data on mortality for disopyramide, flecainide and propafenone, meaning that we are uncertain of the effect of these drugs on mortality. We found no clear evidence that the other medicines we studied had any effect on risk of death. 
We found that people taking any of these medicines were more likely to stop taking them due to side effects, compared with people not taking them. We are less certain of the results for disopyramide, amiodarone, dofetilide and flecainide because the low‐certainty evidence mostly came from small studies with design limitations. Evidence was moderate or high for the other medicines. 
One particular side effect of antiarrhythmic medications is proarrhythmia, which means that people have new or more frequent problems with irregular heartbeats. We found high‐certainty evidence that people taking quinidine or metoprolol had a higher risk of proarrhythmia than people taking no treatment or placebo. Moderate‐certainty evidence indicated a similar increased risk for flecainide, amiodarone, dofetilide, dronedarone and sotalol. Evidence from these studies was moderate certainty due to problems with study limitations, smaller size or imprecise results. We are uncertain of the effect of propafenone on proarrhythmia as we only had very low‐certainty evidence for this medicine. None of the disopyramide studies reported how many people had proarrhythmia. 
