Iron treatment in adults without kidney disease
Background 
Anaemia is common, affecting about a quarter of the world's population. Anaemia can be defined as a reduction in the number of circulating red cells or in the quantity of haemoglobin (both of which carry oxygen) in the blood. An estimated 50% of anaemic people have anaemia due to iron deficiency. We wanted to assess the safety and usefulness of iron treatment in adult men and adult women who were not pregnant and had not just given birth to a child, and who did not have kidney disease. To achieve this aim, we searched the medical literature in July 2013 for relevant studies. We included only randomised trials—a type of study in which the treatment received by participants is determined by chance, so that similar types of people are given the different treatments to be studied. This allows evaluation of the effects of treatment on these people rather than examination of preexisting differences among people receiving different treatments. We included all trials irrespective of the year or language in which they were published. Two review authors independently selected the studies and recorded information from these studies to minimise error. 
Study characteristics 
We included 4745 participants from 21 trials who received iron injections, iron tablets or no treatment. Clinical settings of these trials included loss of blood, cancer, anaemia before surgery for various reasons and heart failure, among others. Most trials included participants with mild to moderate anaemia and excluded participants who were allergic to iron therapy. 
Key results 
Comparisons between iron tablets and no treatment revealed no evidence of clinical benefit in terms of a decrease in death or in quality of life. However, a reduction in the proportion of participants who required blood transfusion was noted among those who received iron tablets versus no treatment. Haemoglobin levels were higher in participants receiving iron tablets versus no treatment. With regards to iron injections, haemoglobin levels were higher after iron injections compared with levels reported after iron tablets or no treatment, but no evidence showed clinical benefit in terms of a decrease in death, in the number of participants requiring blood transfusion or in quality of life of participants. Although the average amount of blood transfused was less in the iron injection group than in the iron tablet group, only one trial reported this outcome, introducing significant doubt about this finding. Differences in serious complications between people who received iron versus no treatment were imprecise. No trials reported severe allergic reactions due to iron injections, suggesting that these are rare. Most of the adverse events related to iron tablet treatment were mild; effects such as nausea, diarrhoea and constipation were reported. Comparisons of the clinical benefit of one iron preparation over another were imprecise. We were unable to determine whether iron is useful in specific clinical situations because available information was not clearly presented. In summary, no evidence is currently available to support the routine use of iron injections in adult anaemic men and or in adult non‐pregnant anaemic women who have not just given birth to a baby. Iron tablets might be useful in anaemic adult men and adult women who can tolerate the side effects. No evidence suggests any advantage of one iron preparation over another. 
Future research 
Additional randomised controlled trials are required to determine whether iron treatment decreases death and blood transfusion requirements and improves quality of life. Such trials should be appropriately designed and should include a sufficiently large number of participants, to decrease the chance of erroneous conclusions. 
