Hysterectomy with medical management for cervical cancer that has spread to nearby tissues only 
The issue 
Cancer of the neck of the womb (cervical cancer) is the most common cancer among women up to 65 years of age. A high proportion of women in poor countries are diagnosed with locally advanced cervical cancer (spread to nearby tissues, but no obvious distant spread). They are usually treated with radiotherapy, with or without chemotherapy (medical treatment). Hysterectomy (surgery to remove the womb and the cervix) with medical treatment is also used, especially in poor countries where access to radiotherapy is limited. 
The aim of the review 
Is hysterectomy with medical treatment more beneficial compared to medical treatment alone in women with locally advanced cervical cancer? 
How did we conduct the review? 
A literature search from 1966 to February 2022 identified 11 clinical trials at moderate to high risk of bias. These included 2683 women and compared: hysterectomy with radiotherapy versus radiotherapy alone; hysterectomy with chemoradiotherapy (chemotherapy plus radiotherapy) versus chemoradiotherapy alone; hysterectomy with chemoradiotherapy versus internal radiotherapy (brachytherapy) with chemoradiotherapy; and hysterectomy preceded by chemotherapy (neoadjuvant, to reduce the size of the cancer) versus radiotherapy alone. We also identified three ongoing trials. 
What are the main findings? 
Hysterectomy (simple (womb and cervix) or radical (womb, cervix and surrounding tissues)) with neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus radiotherapy alone 
By combining results from three studies that assessed 571 women, we found that fewer women who received neoadjuvant chemotherapy plus hysterectomy died than those who received radiotherapy alone. However, many women in the first group also had radiotherapy. There was no difference in the number of women who were disease‐free after treatment. 
Hysterectomy (radical) with neoadjuvant chemotherapy versus chemoradiotherapy alone 
We combined the results of two studies that assessed 1253 women. We found no difference in the risk of death between women who received hysterectomy with neoadjuvant chemotherapy and those who received chemoradiotherapy alone. 
Side effects were not well reported. Results of single trials showed no differences in severe side effects between groups in any comparison. Limited data suggested that the interventions appeared to be reasonably well tolerated, although more evidence is needed. 
Studies did not report how women's quality of life was affected.
What are the conclusions? 
We found insufficient evidence that hysterectomy added to radiotherapy and chemoradiation improved survival, quality of life or side effects in women with locally advanced cervical cancer compared with medical treatment alone. Overall, the quality of the evidence was variable and we had concerns about risk of bias. More trials assessing medical management with and without hysterectomy may test the robustness of the findings of this review. Further data from carefully planned trials assessing medical management with and without hysterectomy are likely to impact on how confident we are about these findings. 
