Does individually‐delivered counselling help people to stop smoking?
Background 
Individual counselling is commonly used to help people who are trying to quit smoking. The review looked at trials of counselling by a trained therapist providing one or more face‐to‐face sessions, separate from medical care. The outcome was being a non smoker at least six months later. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for trials in May 2016 and identified 49 trials Inlcuding around 19,000 participants. All the trials involved one or more face‐to‐face counselling sessions lasting at least 10 minutes, but most were much longer. Many also included further telephone contact for additional support. Thirty‐three of the trials compared individual counselling to a control group that only had minimal support, which could be usual care, brief advice about stopping smoking, or written materials. Of these, 27 did not offer any medication such as nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), which also helps people stop. Six of the 33 provided NRT or other medication to everyone in the trial. Twelve studies compared more intensive to less intensive counselling, and five compared different types of counselling. 
Results and quality of evidence 
Combining the results of the studies showed that having individual counselling could increase the chance of quitting by between 40% and 80%, compared to minimal support. This means that if seven out of 100 smokers managed to quit for at least six months using the sort of brief support given to the control groups, then between 10 and 12 in 100 would be expected to be successful after having counselling. We judged the quality of this evidence to be high. If everyone also had NRT or other medication, and 11 in 100 could quit in the control group, between 11 and 16 in 100 would be expected to be successful with the addition of counselling. We assessed this evidence as being of moderate quality, because the size of benefit was less certain. Having more intensive counselling support, for example more sessions, probably helps more, but the additional benefit is likely to be small, and again was of moderate quality because the size of benefit was uncertain. The few studies that compared different types of counselling did not show any differences between them. 
