Use of calcium during exchange blood transfusion for newborn infants 
Review question: does the administration of calcium during exchange blood transfusion (EBT) reduce the risk of low blood calcium and risk of death from low blood calcium levels among neonates receiving exchange blood transfusion? 
Background: EBT is a type of massive blood transfusion (where blood is taken from a healthy person and infused into the bloodstream of an ill person) which predisposes to low blood calcium as a result of the bonding (chelating) effect of anticlotting chemicals used to preserve donor's blood. Low blood calcium can cause abnormal functions of muscles (including the heart) and nerves. In this review, we investigated the benefits of administered calcium on blood calcium levels and the safety of calcium administration to newborn infants receiving EBT. 
We searched medical databases for clinical trials that administered calcium or no calcium to newborns aged from birth to 28 days receiving EBT and monitored a range of symptoms including death and heart problems. 
Study characteristics: we identified only one poorly designed study for inclusion. 
Results: we found that giving calcium to newborn infants raised blood calcium levels immediately after EBT while blood calcium was reduced among newborn infants who did not receive calcium during EBT. However, despite the observed trends in the values of blood calcium in both groups of the study, the average values of blood calcium in both groups remained within normal limits. In addition, the information available for this review was limited as the effects of giving or not giving calcium during EBT was not studied beyond the time of EBT. 
Conclusion: based on the findings in this review, there is no good‐quality evidence to support or reject continual use of calcium during EBT. We are unable to make conclusions, as the evidence that we found is limited and of very low quality and could change if more results from larger and better‐designed studies become available. 
