Imaging with positron emission tomography (PET) during chemotherapy to predict outcome in adults with Hodgkin lymphoma 
Review question 
This Cochrane Review aimed to find out whether the results of a positron emission tomography (PET) during therapy in people with Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) can help to distinguish between those with a poor prognosis and those with a better prognosis, and predict survival outcomes in each group. 
Background 
Hodgkin lymphoma is a cancer which affects the lymphoid system of the body. It is considered a relatively rare disease (two to three cases per 100,000 people every year in Western countries), that is most common in young adults in their twenties, but it can also occur in children and elderly people. As treatment options have improved, most people with HL can now be cured. It is important that individuals receive the treatment with the greatest efficacy and least toxicity possible. PET is an imaging tool for assessing the disease stage of an individual, and monitoring tumour activity. It has been suggested that PET performed during therapy (so‐called interim PET, e.g. after two cycles of chemotherapy) can distinguish between people who respond well to therapy and those who do not respond well. The aim of this review was to demonstrate the prognostic ability to distinguish between these groups, and predict survival outcomes in each group, to help clinicians make an informed decision on the treatment pathway to improve long‐term outcomes and safety for people with HL. 
Study characteristics 
We included 23 studies to explore the association between interim PET scan results after one to four cycles of chemotherapy and survival outcomes in adults with HL (all stages). We contacted 10 authors, and six provided us with relevant information and/or data. 
Key results 
In 16 included studies, participants received either ABVD chemotherapy or BEACOPP chemotherapy (four studies) only, with or without radiotherapy. In 16 studies, participants underwent an interim PET scan in combination with a computed tomography (CT) (PET‐CT), which have higher accuracy in detecting primary and secondary cancers than a PET scan alone. In the remaining seven studies, PET‐only was conducted. Twenty‐one studies conducted interim PET scans after two cycles (PET2) of chemotherapy. 
Eight studies did not report enough data on our outcomes or population of interest, so we reported the results from these studies narratively. We combined individual study results in meta‐analyses to provide robust evidence for our outcomes of interest overall survival and progression‐free survival. No study measured PET‐associated adverse events (harms). 
For overall survival, combined results from nine studies (1802 participants) show that there is probably a large advantage in overall survival for people with a negative interim PET scan compared to people with a positive interim PET scan. For progression‐free survival, combined results from 14 studies (2079 participants) show that interim PET‐negative people may have an advantage for progression‐free survival, compared to interim PET‐positive people, but we are uncertain about this result. These are unadjusted results, where interim PET was tested as the only prognostic factor. 
Eight studies reported adjusted results, where the independent prognostic ability of interim PET was assessed against other established prognostic factors (e.g. disease stage, B symptoms). We could not combine individual study results because the studies did not include identical sets of covariates. Nevertheless, their results indicate a probable independent prognostic ability of interim PET to predict both outcomes. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Regarding the unadjusted results, we rated our certainty of the evidence as 'moderate' for overall survival. This means that the true effect is likely to be close to the estimated effect, but there is a possibility that it is substantially different. For progression‐free survival, we rated our certainty of the evidence as 'very low', meaning that we have little confidence in the effect estimate, and that the true effect is likely to be substantially different from the estimated effect. 
