Chinese herbal medicines for subfertile women with polycystic ovarian syndrome
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of Chinese herbal medicine (CHM) on rates of live birth pregnancy and adverse events in subfertile women with polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS). 
Background 
PCOS is a common and complex reproductive endocrine disorder, affecting 5% to 15% of women of reproductive age. Women with PCOS may present with irregular menstrual cycles, subfertility (failure to conceive), hirsutism (excessive hair growth), acne and obesity. Many western medical therapies have been used to manage PCOS, including oral contraceptives, clomiphene (drugs used to induce ovulation in women), insulin sensitisers (drugs that help return the blood sugar to the normal range) and laparoscopic ovarian drilling (LOD) which is a surgical treatment that can trigger ovulation in women with PCOS. CHM has been suggested as an alternative approach for subfertile women with PCOS. We wanted to investigate the effectiveness and safety of CHM compared to other therapies for subfertile women with PCOS. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for evidence in commonly used databases. The evidence is current to June 2020. We included eight randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with 609 participants (three new RCTs with 195 women in this updated review). These included studies comparing CHM to western medicine, CHM plus western medicine versus western medicine, and CHM plus surgery versus surgery. Seven of the included studies were conducted and published in Chinese, and the remaining one was in English. All studies had fewer than six menstrual cycles' treatment duration and less than one year follow‐up duration. None of the included studies reported live birth, all reported pregnancy, two reported ovulation and only one reported adverse events. 
Key results 
There was insufficient evidence to support the use of CHM for subfertile women with PCOS. No data were available on live birth. There was no consistent evidence to indicate that CHM improves fertility outcomes. 
When CHM was compared to clomiphene (with or without laparoscopic ovarian drilling (LOD) in both study arms), the pregnancy rates were no different between the treatment and control groups. When CHM plus follicle aspiration and ovulation induction was compared to follicle aspiration and ovulation induction alone, pregnancy rates were no different between the groups. When CHM plus LOD was compared to LOD alone, pregnancy rates were no different between the groups. The certainty of the evidence was very low and therefore we could not draw any conclusions about the results. 
There was, however, limited low certainty evidence to suggest that the addition of CHM to clomiphene may improve pregnancy rates. 
Due to the very low certainty evidence for all comparison groups for all outcomes, we were unable to draw conclusions. There was insufficient evidence on adverse effects to indicate whether CHM is safe. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence was low or very low. The main limitations in the evidence were failure to report live birth or adverse events, failure to describe study methods in adequate detail, and imprecision, with very low event rates and wide confidence intervals. 
