Telehealthcare interventions for long‐term asthma
Asthma is a common condition, affecting an estimated 300 million people worldwide. Its symptoms include cough, breathlessness, wheeze and associated limitation in activity. 
Increases in the prevalence of long‐term conditions such as asthma are presenting considerable challenges to health services internationally and traditional models of healthcare are struggling to cope. Emerging information and communication technologies (ICTs) have the potential to ameliorate some of the challenges being posed through enabling and supporting patient care at a distance. Collectively termed 'telehealthcare' services, these interventions include the use of the telephone, videoconferencing, text‐message (also known as Short Message Service, SMS), instant messaging, email and the Internet to facilitate remote patient monitoring and decisions on care by healthcare professionals. 
The potential benefits of telehealthcare include greater accessibility for patients, reduced time and cost expenditure associated with travelling, earlier detection of disease exacerbations and associated reduced risk of hospital admissions for asthma. These interventions are, however, not without risk and it is therefore important to study the effectiveness of such telehealthcare initiatives rigorously. 
We undertook a systematic review of the literature, searching for randomised controlled trials that have either been published or are in progress, which studied the impact of telehealthcare on asthma outcomes. 
Our searches identified a large body of trial evidence and also a substantial body of work in progress. This revealed that telehealthcare initiatives are unlikely to be of benefit in improving quality of life for the majority of people with relatively mild asthma, but that these interventions may prove useful in preventing exacerbations and hospital admissions in people with more severe asthma. We believe it is important for more research to be done to establish the cost‐effectiveness of these interventions. 
