What are the best ways for recovering movement in the hand after surgery to repair flexor tendons (tendons in the hand that enable fingers to bend)? 
Why is this question important? 
Flexor tendons are strong smooth cords that connect the muscles in the forearm (between the hand and elbow) to the bones in the fingers. These tendons allow us to bend our fingers. (Other tendons, known as extensor tendons, allow us to straighten them.) 
If flexor tendons become damaged – for example, because of a deep cut from broken glass – surgery is usually needed. The aim of surgery is to repair the tendons so that movement can be restored in the affected fingers. 
After surgery, the tendons need a lengthy period of rehabilitation to recover from the injury, the surgery and to restore movement. This period typically lasts 12 weeks, though it can be longer for people with complex injuries or with complications such as joint deformities. Rehabilitation usually involves several different steps. After surgery, people often must wear a splint or other devise to stabilise or immobilise the hand and wrist. They also often must do hand exercises to stop the repaired tendons from sticking to surrounding tissue and limiting hand movement. 
There are many kinds of different rehabilitation programmes, but it is unclear whether some are better than others. We set out to review the evidence from research studies, to find out: 
‐ which approaches are most effective in restoring finger motion and function; and
‐ which approaches minimise the risk of adverse (unwanted) events, such as tendon ruptures, scar tissue sticking to other tissues, and joint stiffness. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
First, we searched for studies in the medical literature that compared any rehabilitation approach after flexor tendon surgery against: 
‐ no treatment;
‐ a placebo (dummy) treatment (in which, for example, someone thinks they may be receiving laser therapy but the machine is switched off); or 
