Monoamine oxidase inhibitors (MAOIs) for fibromyalgia
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of MAOIs for fibromyalgia (FM). 
The review shows that in people with FM: 
MAOIs may slightly improve pain and tender points in the short term compared to placebo. Of the MAOIs studied, pirlindole seems more effective than moclobemide. 
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. The most frequent side effects seen in the studies included nausea and vomiting. However, MAOIs are known to have serious and potentially fatal interactions with a variety of foods and other medications. 
What is fibromyalgia and what are MAOIs? 
Fibromyalgia is a chronic condition characterised by generalised pains along with other problems such as sleep disturbances, fatigue and cognitive dysfunction. MAOIs are a certain type of antidepressants that are occasionally used to treat fibromyalgia symptoms. Other antidepressants such as tricyclic agents have demonstrated that they can help to relieve pain, tender points, fatigue and sleep disturbances in people with fibromyalgia, but there is a need to know if MAOIs might also help. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with fibromyalgia who take MAOIs: 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain) 
‐ People who took MAOIs rated their pain to be 1.45 points lower on a scale of 0 to 10 compared to people who took placebo. 
Global assessment (by patient) 
‐ People who took MAOIs showed no difference in their global assessment compared to people who took placebo. 
Tender points 
‐ People who took MAOIs had a lower tender point score and a lower number of tender points (‐0.36 difference) than people who took placebo after four weeks. 
Physical function 
‐ No information about physical function was provided.
Sleep disturbance 
‐ No information about sleep disturbance was provided.
Adverse events (nausea and vomiting) 
‐ 16 more people out of 100 who took MAOIs (pirlindole) had nausea and vomiting.
‐ 18 people out of 100 who took MAOIs (pirlindole) had nausea and vomiting.
‐ 2 people out of 100 who took placebo had nausea and vomiting.
‐ No information regarding people who took moclobemide is available.
Discontinuation due to adverse events 
‐ 4 more people out of 100 who took MAOIs stopped medication due to adverse events.
‐ 9 people out of 100 who took MAOIs stopped medication due to adverse events.
‐ 5 people out of 100 who took placebo stopped medication due to adverse events.
