For people with COPD, is it better to take a combination of tiotropium and long‐acting beta2‐agonists than either inhaler alone? 
What is COPD? 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a lung disease that includes the conditions chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The symptoms include breathlessness and a chronic cough. COPD is an irreversible disease that is usually brought on by airway irritants, such as smoking or inhaled dust. 
What are tiotropium and long‐acting beta2‐agonists? 
Tiotropium and long‐acting beta2‐agonists (LABAs) are two types of inhaled medicines that help widen the airways (bronchodilators) for up to 12 to 24 hours. These bronchodilators are commonly used to manage persistent symptoms of COPD. They can be used in combination or on their own. 
Why is the question important? 
These bronchodilators work in different ways and therefore might be more beneficial if used together. The purpose of this review was to determine the benefits and risks of using a combination of both types of bronchodilator compared to the individual bronchodilators. 
How did we answer the question? 
Two people looked for published and unpublished research in several databases and websites to find relevant studies comparing tiotropium plus LABA with either (tiotropium or a LABA) on its own in adults with COPD. We analysed the results available up to July 2015 in this systematic review. 
What did we find? 
We found 10 studies involving 10,894 participants comparing the long‐term effectiveness and side effects of combining tiotropium with a LABA. The combination of tiotropium plus LABA resulted, on average, in a slightly better quality of life and lung function for the participants compared to using only either tiotropium or a LABA alone, but did not show a difference in hospital admissions or death. The combination treatment also reduced the risk of episodes of acutely worse symptoms ('exacerbations'), compared to a LABA alone but not tiotropium. There were not enough data to determine the risks and benefits of the different types of LABA. 
