Surgical versus conservative for treatment for acromioclavicular dislocations of the shoulder in adults 
This is a summary of research on the effects of surgery compared with non‐surgical (conservative) treatment methods to treat a dislocated acromioclavicular joint. 
Background 
The acromioclavicular joint is located at the top of the shoulder. It is the joint between the collarbone and the acromion (a projection from the shoulder blade that is located at the point of the shoulder). Acromioclavicular joint dislocation is one of the most common shoulder injuries treated in a sport‐active population. It is a common shoulder injury in cyclists and contact sports players such as footballers, boxers, and martial arts practitioners. The dislocation typically occurs in young men who fall and suffer a direct impact to the top of the shoulder. Most acromioclavicular dislocations are treated without surgery, especially those with less severe separation between the bones. Non‐surgical or conservative treatment involves immobilisation of the arm. However, the outcome can be less satisfactory when a more serious dislocation occurs. Surgical treatments involve repositioning the joint parts and repairing or reconstructing the ruptured ligaments. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to June 2019 and included six trials involving 357 participants who were mainly young male adults. All studies compared surgical fixation (using either screws, plates, pins, or other devices to stabilise the dislocated joint) with a conservative method (immobilisation with one of three types of slings or a specially designed splint). In all trials the arm was also supported in a sling or similar device after surgery. Where described, both groups had exercise‐based rehabilitation. 
Key results 
We found that surgery compared with conservative treatment may not improve shoulder function, return to former activities (sport and work), or quality of life at one year. We found evidence that at six weeks, these outcomes may be better after conservative treatment, indicating an earlier recovery. It is unclear whether there is a difference between surgery and conservative treatment in pain at one year, treatment failure usually resulting in secondary surgery, or patient unhappiness with their shoulder appearance. The review found more complications in the surgery group, which were mainly related to the surgical hardware or infection from the surgery. In contrast, complications in the conservatively treated group were mainly discomfort. The risk of such complications varied amongst the six studies and is likely to depend on the type of surgery used. Surgical complications were more common in the older trials, which used types of surgery rarely used today. 
Quality of the evidence 
All six studies had weaknesses that could affect the reliability of their results. We considered the evidence for all outcomes to be either of low or very low quality. 
Conclusions 
Low‐quality evidence indicates that surgery may not provide benefits at one year over conservative treatment for acromioclavicular dislocations in adults. Further good‐quality studies may help resolve this uncertainty and change these conclusions. 
