Thrombopoietin mimetics for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes
Background 
Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are a heterogeneous group of hematopoietic stem cell disorders associated with anaemia, bleedings or infections as a result of peripheral cytopenias and a premature progress to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML). Patients mainly suffer at an elderly age. Bone marrow transplantation remains the only curative option. Thrombocytopenia represents a life‐threatening complication in the course of illness and alternative treatment options to platelet transfusion are limited.The introduction of TPO mimetics (raising platelet counts by imitating the effect of human TPO) in the treatment of MDS may extend the range of therapy. 
Review question 
With this review we aimed to take a closer look at TPO mimetics in the treatment of MDS patients. We intended to focus on changes of overall survival, mortality during study, transformation to AML, incidence of bleeding events, transfusion requirement, health‐related quality of life, all adverse events, and serious adverse events to explore the effect of TPO mimetics. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases such as Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, conference proceedings and study registries (January 2000 to August 2017). No trial evaluated one TPO mimetic (romiplostim or eltrombopag) versus another. We found eight eligible trials (six included, two ongoing, one of which is completed but without final results for MDS patients) and we included 746 adult patients in our review. The trials were randomised, double‐blinded and used either romiplostim or eltrombopag versus placebo. In four trials hypomethylating agents or immunomodulatory drugs were administered in combination to romiplostim or eltrombopag. Only adults were included. 
Key results 
A meta‐analysis of overall survival data was not possible, since data were too heterogeneous to pool. Instead of that, we analysed mortality data. There was no evidence for a difference between TPO mimetics and placebo in terms of mortality during study, transformation to AML, transfusion requirement, adverse events and serious adverse events. Thrombopoietin mimetics probably decrease the number of patients having bleeding events. In the study population, 713 out of 1000 in the placebo arm had a bleeding event, compared to 656 of 1000 (95% confidence interval (CI) 613 to 699) in the TPO mimetics arm. No trial evaluated health‐related quality. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of evidence for the outcomes incidence of bleeding events and all adverse events is moderate due to high risk of bias (small sample sizes and imbalances in baseline characteristics in three trials, premature closure of two trials, selective reporting in one trial, industrial sponsorship). The quality of evidence for the outcomes mortality during study and transfusion requirements is low, due to imprecision through small number of events and high risk of bias. It is very low for the outcomes transformation to AML and serious adverse events, because of very small number of events, high risk of bias and heterogeneity between trials. 
Conclusion 
Although this systematic review reveals a potential patient‐relevant benefit regarding decreasing bleeding events for evaluated adult patients, future trials should focus on outcomes referring to safety, efficacy and quality of life aspects of TPO mimetics to test their everyday usage. The assumption of premature progress to AML could not be clearly verified. Because of the low number of included trials and small sample sizes, uncertainties of the findings in this review exist and demand further investigation with more trials and participants and longer follow‐up periods. 
