How accurate is visual inspection of skin lesions with the naked eye for diagnosis of melanoma in adults? 
What is the aim of the review? 
Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms of skin cancer. The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate checking suspicious skin lesions (lumps, bumps, wounds, scratches or grazes) with the naked eye (visual inspection) can be to diagnose melanoma (diagnostic accuracy). The Review also investigated whether diagnostic accuracy was different depending on whether the clinician was face to face with the patient (in‐person visual inspection), or looked at an image of the lesion (image‐based visual inspection). Cochrane researchers included 19 studies to answer this question. 
Why is it important to know the diagnostic accuracy of visual examination of skin lesions suspected to be melanomas? 
Not recognising a melanoma when it is present (a false‐negative test result) delays surgery to remove it (excision), risking cancer spreading to other organs in the body and possibly death. Diagnosing a skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) as a melanoma when it is not (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery, further investigations, and patient anxiety. Visual inspection of suspicious skin lesions by a clinician using the naked eye is usually the first of a series of ‘tests’ to diagnose melanoma. Knowing the diagnostic accuracy of visual inspection alone is important to decide whether additional tests, such as a biopsy (removing a part of the lesion for examination under a microscope) are needed to improve accuracy to an acceptable level. 
What did the review study? 
Researchers wanted to find out the diagnostic accuracy of in‐person compared with image‐based visual inspection of suspicious skin lesions. Researchers also wanted to find out whether diagnostic accuracy was improved if doctors used a 'visual inspection checklist' or depending on how experienced in visual inspection they were (level of clinical expertise). They considered the diagnostic accuracy of the first visual inspection of a lesion, for example, by a general practitioner (GP), and of lesions that had been referred for further evaluation, for example, by a dermatologist (doctor specialising in skin problems). 
What are the main results of the review? 
Only 19 studies (17 in‐person studies and 2 image‐based studies) were clear whether the test was the first visual inspection of a lesion or was a visual inspection following referral (for example, when patients are referred by a GP to skin specialists for visual inspection). 
First in‐person visual inspection (3 studies) 
The results of three studies of 1339 suspicious skin lesions suggest that in a group of 1000 lesions, of which 90 (9%) actually are melanoma: 
‐ An estimated 268 will have a visual inspection result indicating melanoma is present. Of these, 185 will not be melanoma and will result in an unnecessary biopsy (false‐positive results). 
‐ An estimated 732 will have a visual inspection result indicating that melanoma is not present. Of these, seven will actually have melanoma and would not be sent for biopsy (false‐negative results). 
Two further studies restricted to 4228 suspicious skin lesions that were all selected to be excised found similar results. 
In‐person visual inspection after referral, all lesions selected to be excised (8 studies) 
The results of eight studies of 5331 suspicious skin lesions suggest that in a group of 1000 lesions, of which 90 (9%) actually are melanoma: 
‐ An estimated 108 will have a visual inspection result indicating melanoma is present, and of these, 39 will not be melanoma and will result in an unnecessary biopsy (false‐positive results). 
‐ Of the 892 lesions with a visual inspection result indicating that melanoma is not present, 21 will actually be melanoma and would not be sent for biopsy (false‐negative results). 
Overall, the number of false‐positive results (diagnosing a skin lesion as a melanoma when it is not) was observed to be higher and the number of false‐negative results (not recognising a melanoma when it is present) lower for first visual inspections of suspicious skin lesions compared to visual inspection following referral. 
Visual inspection of images of suspicious skin lesions (2 studies) 
Accuracy was much lower for visual inspection of images of lesions compared to visual inspection in person. 
Value of visual inspection checklists 
There was no evidence that use of a visual inspection checklist or the level of clinical expertise changed diagnostic accuracy. 
How reliable are the results of the studies of this review? 
The majority of included studies diagnosed melanoma by lesion biopsy and confirmed that melanoma was not present by biopsy or by follow‐up over time to make sure the skin lesion remained negative for melanoma. In these studies, biopsy, clinical follow‐up, or specialist clinician diagnosis were the reference standards (means of establishing final diagnoses). Biopsy or follow‐up are likely to have been reliable methods for deciding whether patients really had melanoma. In a few studies, experts diagnosed the absence of melanoma (expert diagnosis), which is less likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had melanoma. There was lots of variation in the results of the studies in this review and the studies did not always describe fully the methods they used, which made it difficult to assess their reliability. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Thirteen studies were undertaken in Europe (68%), with the remainder undertaken in Asia (n = 1), Oceania (n = 4), and North America (n = 1). Mean age ranged from 30 to 73.6 years (reported in 10 studies). The percentage of individuals with melanoma ranged between 4% and 20% in first visualised lesions and between 1% and 50% in studies of referred lesions. In the majority of studies, the lesions were unlikely to be representative of the range of those seen in practice, for example, only including skin lesions of a certain size or with a specific appearance. In addition, variation in the expertise of clinicians performing visual inspection and in the definition used to decide whether or not melanoma was present across studies makes it unclear as to how visual inspection should be carried out and by whom in order to achieve the accuracy observed in studies. 
