Drug treatment other than corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin and plasma exchange for acute Guillain Barré syndrome 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for drug treatment other than corticosteroids, intravenous immunoglobulin and plasma exchange for people with Guillain‐Barré syndrome (GBS). 
Background 
GBS is an acute (sudden and severe), paralysing disease caused by inflammation of the nerves (damage that occurs due to the body's immune system). Symptoms reach their worst within four weeks of onset. Between 3% and 17% of people with GBS die of its complications. A quarter need a ventilator to help with breathing. Recovery takes several weeks or months and is often incomplete. Plasma exchange (washing harmful substances out of the blood) and intravenous immunoglobulin (human antibodies harvested from blood donations given through a drip) can help speed up the recovery. Corticosteroids are probably not effective. Despite the use of plasma exchange or intravenous immunoglobulin many people with GBS have long‐term disability. We need to find what other treatments have been tried as a basis for launching new trials. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to answer the review question. In RCTs people are allocated to treatment groups at random, which reduces bias. We found six eligible RCTs testing five different treatments in a total of 151 participants. We were uncertain about the evidence from the trials. One RCT with only 19 participants compared interferon beta‐1a (a drug that is beneficial in multiple sclerosis) with placebo (a sham treatment). Another, with only 10 participants, compared a nerve growth factor which, in theory, should be beneficial in people with GBS, with placebo. A third trial, with 37 participants, compared cerebrospinal fluid filtration (washing the nerve roots around the spinal cord) with plasma exchange. A fourth trial with 43 participants compared the Chinese herbal medicine tripterygium polyglycoside, which is thought to have anti‐inflammatory properties, with corticosteroids. A fifth trial with eight participants and a sixth with 34 participants compared eculizumab (a drug that blocks complement, a key inflammatory component) with placebo. Five trials received commercial company support. Support for the trial of the Chinese herbal medicine is unknown. 
