Anticholinergics combined with alpha‐blockers for treating lower urinary tract symptoms related to benign prostatic obstruction 
Review question 
Is combination therapy with anticholinergics, a type of medicine that can relieve abnormal bladder contraction (where a man cannot control when he urinates), and alpha‐blockers, a type of medicine that can relax the urethral muscle (the tube that carries urine from the bladder out through the penis during urination), effective and safe for managing urination difficulties and urgency related to enlarged prostate? 
Background 
Urination difficulties and urgency caused by enlarged prostate (a male organ near the bladder and surrounding a part of the urethra) are common in men. Although alpha‐blockers have been used to relieve the urinary symptoms, up to one third of men get no benefit. Combination therapy with alpha‐blockers and anticholinergics provides a treatment option for men with urinary symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
The search is up‐to‐date to 7 August 2020. We identified 23 studies involving 6285 men. Five studies compared combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers versus placebo (a pill with no therapeutic effects). A total of 22 studies compared combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers versus alpha‐blockers alone. Three studies compared combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers versus anticholinergics alone. The follow‐up period in the studies ranged from 12 weeks to one year. 
Key results 
Combination therapy versus placebo: combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers was associated with little effect in urinary symptoms and uncertain improvement on quality of life, but combination therapy may increase unwanted side effects. 
Combination therapy versus alpha‐blockers: combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers may have uncertain effects on improvement of urinary symptoms and quality of life compared to alpha‐blockers alone. Combination therapy may not increase unwanted side effects. 
Combination therapy compared to anticholinergics: combination therapy with anticholinergics and alpha‐blockers may be associated with uncertain effects on urinary symptoms, but an improvement in quality of life in comparison with anticholinergics alone. Combination therapy may not increase unwanted side effects. 
