Interventions for congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot)
Review question 
The purpose of this review was to assess treatments for congenital talipes equinovarus (clubfoot). 
Background 
Clubfoot is a condition, present at birth, in which the foot is in an inturned position. There is no known cause. Different treatments might be effective at different stages: at birth (initial presentation); when initial treatment does not work (resistant presentation); when the initial treatment works but the clubfoot returns (relapse/recurrent presentation); and when there has been no early treatment (neglected presentation). Treatment aims to put the foot back into a normal position and to be pain‐free throughout life. 
Treatment can be non‐surgical, surgical or both. Non‐surgical treatment (for example, casting or stretches) gently stretches the foot into a normal position. Surgery may involve the muscles, tendons, ligaments or joints. Kite and Ponseti techniques both involve prolonged joint manipulation and serial casting to correct foot alignment. The Ponseti technique involves manipulation (of the ankle joint) and usually Achilles tendon surgery, while Kite is a technique involving manipulation of the foot. 
Study characteristics 
From our searches we found 21 trials with 905 participants. All trials had problems of design or conduct that might have affected the results. Treatments were studied at birth (14 trials, 560 participants), during relapse (four trials, 181 participants), or at an unknown time (three trials, 153 participants). We required studies to have used 'validated' measures (i.e. shown to be reliable, consistent, and sensitive to change). Many trials did not take bilateral cases (children with two affected feet) into account during randomisation and statistical analysis. For these reasons, we were unable to include much of the data from the trials in the review. 
Results and certainty of the evidence 
Our main measure of the success of treatment was function (how well the foot worked in everyday life). Two trials reported on function but data were not available to re‐analyse. 
Three trials that compared Ponseti with other casting techniques in children treated at birth provided data that we could analyse on foot alignment. One found that foot position may be better after Ponseti plaster casting than after Kite plaster casting. In the second trial, the evidence was uncertain whether foot position was better after Ponseti plaster casting than after a traditional technique (another type of plaster casting). One trial found that weekly Ponseti casting may be as good as Ponseti plaster casting three times a week (accelerated Ponseti). This trial did not state at which stage the treatment was done. A third trial found that the Ponseti technique may have similar results when using plaster of Paris or semi‐rigid fibreglass. 
No trial assessed the quality of walking using a validated assessment. Two trials reported on the primary outcome of function using validated scales, but raw data were not available for analysis and the trials did not provide quality‐of‐life data that were suitable for reporting in the review. 
We found no trials in relapsed or neglected clubfoot.
A trial in which the type of presentation was not reported found that there may be no important difference between an accelerated Ponseti or standard Ponseti treatment in foot alignment. 
