Antibiotic therapy for adults with neurosyphilis
Review Question 
We reviewed the clinical effectiveness and safety of antibiotic therapy for adults with neurosyphilis. 
Background 
Syphilis is a condition caused by a micro‐organism called Treponema pallidum. At any stage of syphilis an individual can acquire neurosyphilis, which is an infection of the central nervous system (brain and spinal cord). The infection can be spread throughout the central nervous system, causing complications in the brain and spine. It may occur during early or late syphilis and it can have severe consequences for patients. Research has shown that people who are also infected with HIV are more likely to get neurosyphilis. Antibiotics are used to treat neurosyphilis. The first option is aqueous crystalline penicillin. However, in some cases, such as penicillin allergy, other antibiotics can be used. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature up to April 2019 for trials that evaluated the effectiveness and safety of drugs proposed for the management of neurosyphilis in adults. We found only one randomised clinical trial that met our criteria (patients are randomly put into groups to receive different treatments). This trial involved 36 adults with both syphilis and HIV, who were mainly men, with a median age of 34 years. The trial compared two drugs: ceftriaxone (2 g once daily), and penicillin G (4 million units every 4 hours for 10 days). It was funded by a pharmaceutical company. 
Key findings 
The trial reported serological cure, which is a decrease in the levels of the infection shown by laboratory analysis of fluids in the brain and spinal cord (known as cerebrospinal fluids), and clinical cure, which is the absence of signs or symptoms of neurosyphilis. Only three of 18 participants receiving ceftriaxone and two of 18 participants receiving penicillin G achieved serological cure; and eight of 18 participants receiving ceftriaxone and two of 18 participants receiving penicillin G achieved clinical cure. 
There was not enough evidence to allow us to state if there is a difference between treatment with ceftriaxone or Penicillin G for neurosyphilis in adults. The outcomes evaluated could change when trials with a better design become available. Additionally, we did not identify any evidence related to the effectiveness and safety of other drugs proposed to manage this condition. 
