Modifications of the Epley manoeuvre for benign paroxysmal positional vertigo (BPPV)
Benign paroxsymal positional vertigo (BPPV) is caused by rapid changes in head position. The person feels they or their surroundings are moving or rotating. Common causes appear to be head trauma or types of ear infection. BPPV can be caused by particles in the semicircular canal of the inner ear that continue to move when the head has stopped moving. This causes a sensation of ongoing movement that conflicts with other sensory information. The Epley manoeuvre has been shown to improve the symptoms of BPPV. This is a procedure that moves the head and body in four different movements and is designed to remove the particles (causing the underlying problem) from the semicircular canals in the inner ear. A range of modifications of the Epley manoeuvre are now used in clinical practice, including applying vibration to the mastoid bone behind the ear during the manoeuvre, having a programme of balance exercises after the manoeuvre has been done, and placing restrictions on a patient's position (for example, not sleeping on the affected ear for a few days). There are also a number of different ways to do the manoeuvre. 
We included 11 studies in this review, with a total of 855 participants. Nine studies looked at post‐treatment postural restrictions (using a neck brace/head movement restrictions/instructions to sleep upright) following the Epley manoeuvre. There was a statistically significant difference found when these restrictions were compared to a control treatment of the Epley manoeuvre alone. Although there was a difference between the groups, adding postural restrictions conferred only a small additional benefit since the Epley manoeuvre was effective alone in just under 80% of patients. Four of the studies reported minor complications such as neck stiffness, horizontal BPPV (a subtype of BPPV which is similar to posterior canal BPPV, but has some distinct differences in terms of the signs and symptoms), dizziness and disequilibrium (the feeling of unsteadiness on ones feet) in some patients. 
