Rutosides for treatment of post‐thrombotic syndrome 
Background 
Blood clots in the veins of the leg are a common problem and are termed deep vein thrombosis (DVT). One in three patients with a DVT develops a complication known as post‐thrombotic syndrome (PTS). This syndrome involves ongoing swelling of the affected leg, pain, cramps, burning or prickling, and itching. Darkening of the skin because of increased pigmentation and varicose veins, redness and skin irritation can also occur. At the current time the main way of treating PTS is to wear compression stockings. It is known however that patients frequently find the stocking uncomfortable and so they may prefer to take an oral medication to treat the problem. Rutosides are a herbal remedy which has been shown to be effective in other conditions affecting the veins (chronic venous insufficiency). 
Study characteristics and key results 
This review aimed to evaluate the existing literature to see if rutosides were useful for treating PTS. We also investigated whether there were any side effects from the treatment. We searched all existing databases for trials relating to the use of rutosides for the treatment of PTS following DVT (current until 21 August 2018). Two review authors independently assessed the trials for inclusion and extracted results in line with our prescribed criteria. We found three suitable trials, with a total of 233 patients, and six unsuitable trials that were not included in the review. 
The studies were small and undertaken very differently meaning they could not be combined. The studies used different comparisons with rutosides (placebo (inactive product), compression stockings alone or combined with rutosides, or hidrosmina (a venoactive drug, which acts on the vascular system). They also used different doses of rutosides (900 mg/day to 2000 mg/day). We found no clear evidence from any of the trials that treatment with rutosides improved symptoms and signs of PTS; or that there was any difference in side effects. Occurrence of leg ulceration was not reported in any of the included studies. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall quality of evidence, using the GRADE approach, was low mainly due to the lack of both participant and researcher blinding. This means both investigators and participants knew what drug they were getting and this can effect the results. The quality of the evidence was further limited as only three small studies contributed to the review findings. A subjective scoring system was used to obtain the symptoms of PTS so it was important that the assessors were blinded to the intervention. 
