The use of regular vitamin A or vitamin A‐like preparations for children and adults with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence regarding the effect of regular vitamin A or vitamin A‐like (carotenes or other retinoids) supplements in children and adults with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
In people with cystic fibrosis only a small proportion of some vitamins, such as vitamin A, may be absorbed by the body and lead to problems caused by vitamin deficiency. A lack of vitamin A (vitamin A deficiency) can cause eye and skin problems and is associated with poorer general and respiratory health. Therefore, people with cystic fibrosis are usually supplemented with regular vitamin A preparations from a very young age. However, too much vitamin A can cause bone and liver problems. Excessive carotene levels are known to cause carotenaemia, a harmless, reversible yellowing of the skin, whilst a lack of carotene is not known to cause adverse manifestations in individuals with normal vitamin A levels. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 01 June 2018.
Study characteristics 
No studies comparing vitamin A or other retinoid supplements to placebo (dummy drug containing no vitamin A) were included, but we did find one study comparing beta‐carotene supplementation (a precursor of vitamin A) to placebo. A total of 24 people with cystic fibrosis (aged 6.7 to 27.7 years) were put into groups at random and treated either with β‐carotene capsules (at a high dose for three months followed by a low dose for a further three months) or with placebo (for six months). 
Key results 
No studies on vitamin A supplementation were included in this review.
The single included study revealed that high‐dose beta‐carotene supplementation for three months led to fewer days on which people with CF required antibiotics compared to placebo, but this was not the case in the following three‐month section of the study when low‐dose beta‐carotene supplementation was compared to placebo. Other clinical outcome measures (growth, nutritional status and lung function) showed no statistical significant differences between treatment and placebo groups. No side effects were observed. The other outcomes in this review, such as vitamin A deficiency symptoms, mortality, toxicity and quality of life, were not reported. 
