Transarterial embolisation, with or without chemotherapy, for liver metastases
Review question Can transarterial embolisation, with (TACE) or without chemotherapy (TAE) destroy cancer metastases in the liver? Metastases are new cancer sites that spread to other parts of the body from the original site of the cancer. 
We looked for randomised clinical trials (studies in which participants are allocated to groups by a play of chance) that assessed the benefits and harms of TAE or TACE, compared with no intervention or placebo, for people with liver metastases from cancer of any location. We were interested in the risk of death, survival time, recurrence rates, progression of the disease, health‐related quality of life, and adverse events (unwanted effects caused by the intervention). 
Background One of the most common sites of metastasis is the liver. Primary cancers of the liver, and metastases from colorectal cancer are the most common cancers affecting the liver. More than half of the people who have liver metastases die of complications. 
Liver metastases can be destroyed by several methods. One method is based on the concept that the blood supply to liver (hepatic) tumours comes mainly from the hepatic artery. Transarterial chemoembolisation (TACE) of the hepatic artery involves the injection of a chemotherapeutic drug, followed by agents (small particles) that block the blood vessels. This interaction leads to death (necrosis) of the liver tumour, while leaving normal liver tissue virtually unaffected. The hepatic artery can also be blocked without chemotherapy, in which case it is called bland transarterial embolisation (TAE). 
Search results and study characteristics We last searched for evidence on 20 December 2019. We included one randomised trial from earlier searches. This trial randomly assigned people with colorectal liver metastases that could not be surgically removed, to one of three intervention groups: TAE (22 participants), TACE (19 participants), and a control group (20 participants) that received no active therapeutic intervention. 
Cancer Research Campaign, a non‐profit organisation, provided a grant for the study; Pharmacia Ltd. delivered the Port‐a‐Cath arterial delivery systems and degradable starch microspheres. 
Key results Trial participants were followed for a minimum of seven months. 
Mortality at 44 months from trial entry was 86% in the TAE group, 79% in the TACE group, and 95% in the control group. Median survival after trial entry was 7.0 months in the TAE group, 10.7 months in the TACE group, and 7.9 months in the control group. Median survival from diagnosis was 8.7 months in the TAE group, 13.0 months in the TACE group, and 9.6 months in the control group. Local recurrence was reported in 10 participants, without further details of their treatment group. 
