Surgical approach to hysterectomy for benign gynaecological diseases
Review question 
Cochrane authors evaluated which is the most effective and safe surgery for hysterectomy in women with benign gynaecological disease. 
Background 
Hysterectomy for benign gynaecological disease, mostly abnormal uterine bleeding, prolapse or uterine fibroids, is one of the most frequent gynaecological procedures (30% of women by the age of 60; 590,000 procedures annually in the USA). It can be performed through several approaches. Abdominal hysterectomy involves removal of the uterus through an incision in the lower abdomen. Vaginal hysterectomy involves removal of the uterus via the vagina, without an abdominal incision. Laparoscopic hysterectomy involves 'keyhole surgery' through small incisions in the abdomen. The uterus may be removed vaginally or, after morcellation (cutting it up), through one of the small incisions. There are various types of laparoscopic hysterectomy, depending on the extent of the surgery performed laparoscopically compared to that performed vaginally. More recently, laparoscopic hysterectomy has been performed robotically. In robotic surgery, the operation is done by a robot, while the (human) surgeon steers the robot from a chair in the corner of the operating room. It is important to be well informed about the relative benefits and harms of each approach to make best informed choices for each woman needing hysterectomy for a benign disease. 
Study characteristics 
We analysed 47 randomised controlled trials (RCTs). A RCT is a type of study in which the people being studied are randomly allocated one or other of the different treatments being investigated. This type of study is usually the best way to evaluate whether a treatment is truly effective, i.e. truly helps the patient. A systematic review systematically summarises the available RCTs on a subject. 
A total of 5102 women participated. Comparisons were vaginal versus abdominal hysterectomy (nine trials, 762 women), laparoscopic versus abdominal hysterectomy (25 trials, 2983 women), laparoscopic versus vaginal hysterectomy (16 trials, 1440 women) and laparoscopic versus robot‐assisted hysterectomy (two trials, 152 women); in addition there were studies in which three comparisons were made (four trials, 410 women). There were also studies included in which different types of laparoscopic hysterectomies were compared, including single‐port versus multi‐port (three trials, 203 women), total laparoscopic hysterectomy versus laparoscopic‐assisted vaginal hysterectomy (one trial, 101 women) and mini‐laparoscopic versus conventional laparoscopic hysterectomy (one trial, 76 women). The main outcomes were return to normal activities, satisfaction, quality of life and surgical complications. 
Key results 
We found that vaginal hysterectomy resulted in a quicker return to normal activities than abdominal hysterectomy. There was no evidence of a difference between them for our other main outcomes. 
Laparoscopic hysterectomy also resulted in a quicker return to normal activities than abdominal hysterectomy. However, laparoscopic hysterectomies had a greater risk of damaging the bladder or ureter. There was no evidence of a difference between laparoscopic and vaginal hysterectomy or between laparoscopic and robot‐assisted hysterectomy for our main outcomes. 
We conclude that vaginal hysterectomy should be performed whenever possible. Where vaginal hysterectomy is not possible, both a laparoscopic approach and abdominal hysterectomy have their pros and cons and these should be incorporated in the decision‐making process. 
