Golimumab for rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of biologics on rheumatoid arthritis (RA).   The review shows that in people with rheumatoid arthritis; 
‐ Golimumab improves the number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability (ACR 50). 
‐ Golimumab increases the number of people in remission.
‐ Slightly more people who take Golimumab will have minor side effects (such as a minor infection), but this may be the result of chance. There is no difference in the number of people who will have a serious adverse event, compared to people who took a placebo.  
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include a serious infection or upper respiratory infection. Rare complications may include certain types of cancer. 
What is rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and what are is golimumab? 
When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints making them inflamed. This inflammation causes your joints to be hot, swollen, stiff, and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first.  If the inflammation goes on without treatment, it can lead to damaged joints.  Once the joint is damaged it cannot be repaired, so treating rheumatoid arthritis early is important. 
Golimumab is an anti‐tumor necrosis factor (TNF)‐alpha biologic drug.  Biologics are a group of medications that suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation in the joints.  Even though suppressing the immune system can make it slightly harder to fight off infections, it also helps to stabilize an overactive immune system. By reducing the inflammation, the aim is to help prevent damage to the joints.  Golimumab is an injection given once a month. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take golimumab: 
ACR 50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability) 
‐ 23 more people out of 100 experienced improvement in the symptoms of their rheumatoid arthritis after 14‐24 weeks with golimumab (23% absolute improvement). 
‐ 38 people out of 100 who took golimumab experienced improvement.
‐ 15 people out of 100 who took a placebo experienced improvement.
Disease Remission 
‐ 18 more people out of 100 were considered to be in remission after 14‐24 weeks with golimumab (18% absolute improvement). 
‐ 22 people out of 100 were considered to be in remission with golimumab.
‐ 4 people out of 100 were considered to be in remission with placebo.
 People who dropped out of the studies due to any reason 
‐ 5 fewer people out of 100 who took golimumab dropped out of the studies for any reason.  (2% absolute difference) 
‐ 5 people out of 100 who took golimumab dropped out of the studies for any reason.
‐ 10 people out of 100 who used a placebo dropped out of the studies for any reason.
