Interventions to change diet in a dental care environment
Unhealthy sugar consumption habits are known to be associated with high rates of dental decay, and fizzy drink consumption habits associated with tooth enamel being dissolved (dental erosion). Members of the dental team routinely assess patients' diets, highlighting areas where this could be improved to reduce disease. This advice might extend to dietary issues affecting general as well as oral health. Although we know that certain dietary habits contribute to disease, whether patients take note of advice given to them and change their diet as a result, is less certain. The aim of this review was to determine whether efforts by dentists and other dental staff members are successful in changing patients' diets. We limited the review to looking at studies where diet advice was given in a dental surgery or similar place, and where the advice was given by one member of staff to an individual patient. 
We identified five studies. Two of these were concerned with diet advice given concerning general health (one was about alcohol and one was about fruit and vegetable consumption). In both these studies there was a change to healthier behaviour following the advice. 
We also identified three studies which attempted to change sugar consumption habits in order to reduce dental decay. However, in two out of these three studies there were also other types and forms of advice given at the same time, for example about toothbrushing. It was therefore impossible to say whether changes in diet came about because of the diet advice given or because they were subtly influenced by the other messages. For example: advice on toothbrushing might make patients more aware of their oral health resulting in changes to their diet. Most of the studies concerning sugar consumption are of relatively weak quality. The evidence for dietary advice aiming to change sugar consumption is poor. Further studies in this area should be considered. 
