Preconception care for women with diabetes to improve maternal and infant health
What is the issue? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if giving women with diabetes specialised care before they become pregnant has an impact on their health, and on the health of their future babies. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question (date of search: January 2017). 
Why is this important? 
If a woman has type 1 or type 2 diabetes, and she becomes pregnant, she is at a greater risk of high blood pressure, and her baby has a greater risk of being born early (preterm ‐ before 37 weeks). In addition, her pregnancy makes it more likely she will develop one or more of the known complications of diabetes, such as heart disease, problems with the nervous system and eyesight problems. Babies born to mothers with type 1 or type 2 diabetes may be larger, and they have a higher risk of death and abnormality of the spinal column or brain. They are also at risk of developing type 2 diabetes in the long term. 
Effective control of blood sugar level (glycaemic control) is part of diabetes care. The relationship between glycaemic control and better health outcomes for mothers and their babies indicates that specialist care before pregnancy (preconception care) could be of benefit. This involves education and support, and help with self‐monitoring of blood sugar levels, and self‐care. 
We searched for studies which looked at preconception care in diabetes clinics.
What evidence did we find? 
We found three randomised controlled trials, conducted at diabetes clinics in the USA. The total number of participants in the studies was 254. The participants were all adolescent girls involved in the programme READY‐Girls (Reproductive‐health Education and Awareness of Diabetes in Youth for Girls). Their care was compared with standard care. 
None of these three trials gave us the information on the health outcomes we needed. In one trial, there were no pregnancies among the participants during the period of the study, and the other two trials’ reporting of pregnancy was not sufficient. There were no data about short and long term outcomes for the mothers and their babies, or about the use of the health service and related costs. 
What does this mean? 
Because the information is lacking, we have no evidence from this Cochrane review to guide practice on this topic. Further large, well‐designed, randomised controlled trials are required. Three trials are ongoing and will be considered in the next update of this review. 
