Percutaneous ethanol injection for liver metastases
Is local destruction of the cancer that spread to the liver with percutaneous ethanol injection beneficial? 
Review question 
What is the effect of using percutaneous ethanol injection (PEI) to destroy any cancer metastases in the liver? Metastases are new cancer sites that are found in parts of the body other than the site of the original cancer. We were looking for any randomised trial (a study in which patients are allocated to groups by a play of chance) assessing effects of PEI in people with metastases in the liver from cancer of any location compared with no PEI with or without co‐interventions. We looked at effects of PEI on risk of death, progression of disease, health‐related quality of life, and adverse events (unwanted effects caused by the intervention). 
Background 
When cancer spreads in the body (metastasis), one of the most common sites of metastasis is the liver. Besides cancers of the liver (primary liver cancer), liver metastases from colorectal cancer are the most common cancers affecting the liver. More than half of people who have cancer spread to the liver die of complications. Metastases in the liver can be destroyed by several different methods, one of them being PEI. This procedure is performed under ultrasound or computed tomography guidance; a special needle is placed at the cancer site and is subsequently used to inject alcohol with the goal of killing cancer tissues. Ultrasound and computed tomography are imaging procedures. Alcohol induces tumour destruction by drawing water out of tumour cells (dehydrating them), thereby altering (denaturing) the structure of the cellular proteins. 
Search results and study characteristics 
We last searched for evidence on 10 September 2019. We included only one randomised trial comparing percutaneous intratumour ethanol injection in combination with transcatheter arterial chemoembolisation (TACE; a liver‐directed treatment whereby chemotherapy is administered through the catheter directly to blood vessels supplying the tumour) to TACE alone. Forty‐eight people with liver metastases were included; 25 received PEI with TACE, and 23 received TACE alone. Primary tumours were colon, stomach, pancreas, lung, breast, and ovary cancers. 
