High‐frequency oscillation for the treatment of acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) 
Background 
Acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) is a life‐threatening condition. It is characterized by acute lung inflammation, stiff lungs that increase the work of breathing, and reduced ability of the lungs to adequately oxygenate the blood. Survivors can have a reduced quality of life. People with ARDS usually require an artificial respirator in order to prevent death. High‐frequency oscillation (HFO) ventilation differs from conventional ventilation in that very small breaths are delivered very rapidly (180 to 900 breaths per minute). HFO helps with the opening of collapsed lung tissue by providing constant positive pressure in a person's airway. We performed a systematic review to determine whether HFO improves clinical outcomes (including preventing deaths) when compared to conventional breathing machines for adults and children with ARDS. 
Study characteristics 
We included 10 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) enrolling 1850 participants in this updated review. One large trial was stopped early because of increased deaths among participants who were randomized to HFO. Four trials reported at least some funding from manufacturers of HFO ventilators. 
Key results 
HFO did not reduce the risk of death in hospital in eight trials enrolling 1779 participants. The ability of the lungs to oxygenate blood, measured at 24 to 72 hours of ventilation after randomization, was 18% to 26% better in participants receiving HFO. HFO had no effect on the length of time an artificial breathing machine was required. The risk of unwanted side effects, including low blood pressure or further injury to the lung due to high airway pressure, was not increased. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found substantial inconsistency among clinical trials which reported the effect of HFO on the risk of death in participants with ARDS. The quality of evidence is very low for outcomes that would be most important to patients. This is because of a lack of precision and consistency, and because in many cases the methods used by investigators during clinical trials were not of the highest standard. This indicates that there is considerable uncertainty regarding the effect of HFO on death. Additional randomized trials could change these findings. 
