How accurate are magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) scans for detecting liver cancer?
Key messages 
In people with chronic liver disease, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI: cross‐sectional scans inside the body) probably misses liver cancer in 16% of people, who would not receive timely or appropriate treatment, and incorrectly finds liver cancer in 6% of people, who would receive unnecessary treatment. 
MRI probably misses liver cancer in 16% of people with liver cancer who could have surgery to remove part of their liver, and incorrectly finds liver cancer in 7% of people who undergo inappropriate surgery. 
The studies were at high risk of bias and too different from each other to allow us to draw firm conclusions based on the evidence. 
Why is it important to diagnose liver cancer accurately? 
Liver cancer, or 'hepatocellular carcinoma', occurs mostly in people with chronic liver disease, regardless of the cause. It is the sixth most common cancer in the world and the third most common cause of deaths due to cancer. It is difficult to diagnose because early symptoms are similar to those of liver disease. People with blood test or ultrasound results that suggest liver cancer may go on to have further tests, such as scans that produce images of the liver, or biopsy where a small piece of the liver is removed and examined. If liver cancer is detected early, people may be treated with surgery to remove part of the liver (called a liver resection) or with a liver transplant. If the liver cancer is more advanced, they may need chemotherapy. If liver cancer is missed at the diagnostic test, people will not receive appropriate treatment. However, incorrectly diagnosing liver cancer when it is not present means that people may undergo unnecessary testing or treatment. 
What is magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and how might it diagnose liver cancer? 
MRI produces images that show a cross‐section or 'slice' of the bones, blood vessels, and tissues inside the body. The images are a series of signal intensities that are directed and combined by a computer. MRI scans can detect the presence of abnormalities in the liver that might be cancer. Current guidelines recommend using either MRI or another type of imaging, computed tomography, or a combination to confirm the presence of liver cancer in people who might have liver cancer. 
