Self‐management interventions including action plans for patients with Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD) 
Review question 
We looked at the evidence on the effects of self‐management interventions that include action plans for when COPD symptoms get worse. In particular, we looked at the effects on health‐related quality of life and hospital admissions related to lung diseases in people with COPD. 
Background 
People with COPD, a chronic lung disease, have symptoms that get worse over time leading to loss of well‐being (also known as reduction in health‐related quality of life, HRQoL). In self‐management interventions people with COPD learn what to do in different disease situations, such as when symptoms get worse and to develop skills and change health behaviour to successfully manage their disease. Action plans describe what can be done by people with COPD when symptoms get worse. 
The effectiveness of action plans for when COPD gets worse is not completely clear. Action plans have become a central part of COPD management and are very often included in COPD self‐management programmes. 
Search date 
We searched up to May 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We included 22 studies, involving a total of 3,854 participants, that evaluated the effects of self‐management interventions that include an action plan. All studies had control groups who received usual care. Follow‐up was from two to 24 months. 
Key results 
Self‐management interventions including an action plan for worsening COPD symptoms improved health‐related quality of life compared with usual care (high‐quality evidence). The number of people who had at least one hospital admission related to lung disease was reduced among those who participated in a self‐management intervention (moderate‐quality evidence). There was a very small but significant increase in respiratory‐related deaths for self‐management interventions (very low‐quality evidence). 
The included studies looked at different content of self‐management interventions and action plans. Study populations also differed. 
Although we were unable to identify the most effective components, we found that including a smoking cessation programme seemed to be effective to further improve health‐related quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence in this review is reliable, and the evidence for the main findings is moderate to high. 
