Perioperative enhanced recovery after surgery programmes for women with gynaecological cancers 
BackgroundGynaecological cancers lead to a significant amount of morbidity and mortality. Surgery, either by laparoscopic (key‐hole surgery) or open surgical techniques, is one of the most important approaches in the treatment of gynaecological cancer. Well‐planned perioperative care (care at or around the time of surgery) is vital for recovery following surgery. 
In recent years, researchers and doctors have suggested that many aspects of traditional perioperative care practice may be unnecessary or even harmful. For example, the use of oral laxative and enema could result in preoperative abnormalities in the levels of sodium, potassium or calcium, along with dehydration. The enhanced recovery after surgery (ERAS) programme aims to reduce surgical stress and avoid harmful aspects of traditional perioperative care. It has been introduced gradually to various surgical fields, particularly bowel surgery. ERAS programmes may help recovery after surgery, shorten time in hospital, and save hospital costs without putting the person at greater risk. However, less is known about the effects of ERAS programmes in women with gynaecological cancer. This review aims to evaluate the benefits and harms of perioperative ERAS programmes in gynaecological cancer care. 
Study characteristics 
We searched both Chinese and English databases (up to October 2020) and found seven trials of 747 women with gynaecological cancer, including cervical cancer, uterine cancer, ovarian cancer, and endometrial cancer. Five studies only recruited women with suspected or confirmed gynaecological cancer and two studies also included a small group of women with a benign or borderline tumour. Three studies recruited women who underwent laparotomy (where a surgeon makes one large incision in the abdomen) and two studies included those who underwent laparoscopic surgery (a minimally invasive procedure that requires only small incisions). Two of the studies used both types of surgery. Women then received either perioperative ERAS programmes or traditional care. 
Key results 
ERAS programmes may reduce time in hospital after the operation and readmission rates within 30 days of surgery. ERAS programmes may speed up recovery of bowel functions following surgery, measured by time to when the woman first breaks wind or opens her bowels. There may be no increase in complications within 30 days of operation using ERAS programmes. Due to limited evidence, we are very uncertain about the effects of ERAS programmes on death from any cause within 30 days of operation, or on how satisfied women were with their care. We did not find any evidence about their quality of life. ERAS might not increase hospital costs, but the evidence was very uncertain. 
Conclusions 
ERAS programmes may shorten time in hospital after the operation, reduce postoperative readmission rates, and facilitate bowel function recovery without compromising the safety of women with gynaecological cancer, although we have limited confidence in the findings due to the quality of the studies. Future well‐conducted studies may increase the certainty of these findings. 
