Which dressings or topical agents are the most effective for healing pressure ulcers?
Dressings and topical agents for treating pressure ulcers 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of dressings and topical agents (such as ointments, creams and gels) on pressure ulcer healing. There are many different dressings and topical agents available, and we wanted to find out which were the most effective. 
Background 
Pressure ulcers, also known as bedsores, decubitus ulcers and pressure injuries, are wounds involving the skin and sometimes the tissue that lies underneath. Pressure ulcers can be painful, may become infected and affect people's quality of life. People at risk of developing pressure ulcers include those with limited mobility ‐ such as older people and people with short‐term or long‐term medical conditions ‐ and people with spinal cord injuries. In 2004 the total yearly cost of treating pressure ulcers in the UK was estimated as being GBP 1.4 to 2.1 billion, which was equivalent to 4% of the total National Health Service expenditure. 
Topical agents such as ointments, creams or gels are applied to unhealed pressure ulcers and left in place to treat the wound; they may be covered with a dressing. Some of these treatments have been compared with each other in trials, usually comparing two treatments at a time. We used a method called 'network meta‐analysis' to bring together all the trial results of different treatments in a reliable way. We hoped that this method, which compares all treatment options, would help us find out which was the best treatment for healing pressure ulcers. 
Study characteristics 
In July 2016 we searched for randomised controlled trials looking at dressings and topical agents for treating pressure ulcers and that gave results for complete wound healing. We found 51 studies involving a total of 2947 people. Thirty‐nine of these studies, involving 2127 people, gave results we could bring together in a network meta‐analysis comparing 21 different treatments. Most participants in the trials were older people; three of the 39 trials involved participants with spinal cord injuries. 
Key results 
Generally, the studies we found did not have many participants and results were often inconclusive. This problem carried over into the network meta‐analysis and made the findings unclear. As a result, it was unclear whether one topical agent or dressing was better than another. Some findings for individual comparisons may be slightly more reliable. Protease‐modulating dressings, foam dressings or collagenase ointment may be better at healing than gauze; but even this evidence is not certain enough to be an adequate guide for treatment choices. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We judged the certainty of the evidence to be very low or low. The next step might be to do more research of better quality to see which dressings or topical agents could best heal pressure ulcers. 
