What treatments can be used to prevent and treat alveolar osteitis (dry socket)?
Dry socket is a condition that sometimes arises when teeth have been extracted and is more likely to occur following extraction of wisdom teeth in the lower jaw. It is thought to be linked to the loss of some or all of the blood clot that forms at the bottom of a socket after a tooth is taken out, although other factors are probably also involved. Dry socket can be very painful for several days after an extraction and people with this condition can also experience bad breath. The condition can result in more visits to the dentist or dental hospital and other inconveniences such as time lost from work. 
This review looked at existing research with the aim of assessing what treatments can be used to prevent and to treat alveolar osteitis (dry socket). The search for existing studies was done on 29 October 2012. 
The review team identified 21 trials which met the inclusion criteria for this review: 18 trials (2376 participants) looking at different ways to prevent dry socket and three trials (194) on the treatment of dry socket. 
The studies looked at adults over 18 years of age and included (amongst others) people who smoked and took oral contraceptives (both possible risk factors). However, studies involving people who were extremely ill or who had compromised immune systems were not included. Studies which looked at the use of antibiotics to manage dry socket were also not included. 
Prevention 
It was found that there is some evidence to show that rinsing both before and after tooth extraction with chlorhexidine gluconate rinse (at 0.12% and 0.2% strength) reduced the risk of having a dry socket. Placing chlorhexidine gel (0.2% strength) in the socket of an extracted tooth also reduced the risk of having dry socket. 
The risk of developing dry socket depends on many factors, some of which are unknown. Your dentist or dental care professional (DCP) should be able to advise you of your own risk status. 
To illustrate the effectiveness of chlorhexidine treatment as a preventive measure: if the risk of contracting alveolar osteitis (dry socket) was 1% (one in a hundred) then 232 people undergoing tooth extractions would need to be treated to prevent one case of dry socket; if the risk was 5%, then the number needed to be treated to prevent one case of dry socket would be 47; if the risk rises to 30%, the number needed to be treated to prevent one case of dry socket would be 8. 
In these trials no serious side effects or reactions by patients due to chlorhexidine were reported. However, two serious events associated with the use of chlorhexidine mouthwash for irrigation of dry socket have been reported in the UK. If people have a history of allergies or have had adverse reactions previously to the use of chlorhexidine mouthwashes they should tell their dentist or DCP before using chlorhexidine. They should also tell their dentist or DCP if they experience any unusual symptoms such as rashes, itching or swelling of the lips whilst using chlorhexidine. 
It is recommended that all members of the dental team prescribing chlorhexidine products are aware of the potential for both minor and serious side effects, are competent to manage a medical emergency associated with anaphylaxis (toxic shock) and warn patients of the potential for adverse events. 
