Active mind‐body movement therapies for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Background 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a major cause of ill health and is currently the fourth leading cause of death worldwide. COPD describes a chronic lung condition in which shortness of breath, tiredness, and exercise intolerance are typical symptoms. Active mind‐body movement therapies (AMBMTs) consist of mind‐body therapies such as controlled breathing and/or focused meditation/attention interventions whereby participants must actively move their joints and muscles (e.g. yoga, tai chi, qigong). Although different forms of AMBMT may differ in origin, they usually share similar principles: movement/posture, controlled breathing, and focused attention/meditation. AMBMT strategies applied to people with COPD have been found to be more effective than usual care. However the effect of AMBMT as an adjunct to or in direct comparison with pulmonary rehabilitation (PR), the cornerstone of COPD management, remains to be determined; this is the objective of the current review. 
Study characteristics 
We included 10 studies involving 762 participants who were randomly assigned to receive AMBMT alone or in combination with PR or PR alone (mainly unstructured walking training). The quality of included studies was generally poor. 
Key results 
Given the quality of available evidence, effects of AMBMT in comparison with PR or of AMBMT added to PR in comparison with PR alone remain inconclusive. One key reason for this is that PR programmes used as comparators had major design flaws, for example, the term 'PR' was uncritically used in the vast majority of studies, and PR was often considered equal to unstructured walking training. This, together with the poor quality of evidence, limits our confidence in the observed effects. Available evidence suggests that when AMBMT was compared to PR alone, larger improvements in disease‐specific quality of life were observed with AMBMT, although AMBMT was not superior to PR with regard to dyspnoea (breathlessness). AMBMT added to PR resulted in large improvement in generic quality of life when compared with PR alone, although the addition of AMBMT to PR did not lead to further improvements in disease‐specific quality of life. However, before definitive conclusions can be drawn, future research studies comparing AMBMT to PR are needed, and these should follow current PR guidelines for designing comparator interventions, preferably delivered by properly trained professionals with a comprehensive understanding of respiratory physiology, exercise science, and the pathology of COPD. 
