What evidence is there that care bundles improve outcomes for patients with COVID‐19 in the intensive care setting? 
What are care bundles? 
Care bundles are a set of care practices that are carried out together (as a bundle) when delivering care to patients with the same condition or in the same healthcare setting. There are usually three to five practices in a bundle. Practices could include any aspect of patient care. For example, a bundle might include guidance on inserting breathing tubes, ventilator settings and care of ventilated patients. All the practices are ‘evidence‐based’, that is, they are based on evidence that shows they are useful. 
Why might care bundles help? 
Some people with COVID‐19 can become seriously ill and need intensive care. They will require respiratory (breathing) support and may need to be placed on a ventilator. Recent information suggests that around 26% of people with COVID‐19 around the world have been admitted to an intensive care unit (ICU), and of these people, almost one‐third have died. 
For people with COVID‐19 and related conditions (such as viral pneumonia, which also causes serious breathing difficulties), using care bundles will mean that practitioners carry out each care practice in the bundle, each time. Implementing the practices together, rather than individually, should result in better outcomes for patients. Use of care bundles should also reduce variation in how care is delivered and can improve the teamwork needed to provide high‐quality health care, which also results in better patient outcomes. 
Purpose of the review 
The World Health Organization (WHO) commissioned this 'scoping' review to identify how much and what type of evidence is available on the use of care bundles for patients in the ICU setting suffering from COVID‐19, acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS) or viral pneumonia. We wanted to identify and describe the studies that have been done and what they assessed, but not to appraise their quality or analyse their findings as we would usually do in a standard review. The WHO wanted to use this review to help develop their guidelines, so we prepared it quickly, over a three‐week period from 26 October to 18 November 2020. 
How did we identify and map the evidence? 
We searched for all types of studies that reported on patients who were seriously ill with COVID‐19, ARDS or viral pneumonia in the ICU setting, where a care bundle was used. Study participants could be any age. The care bundles could include any practices, but there had to be at least three in a bundle, they had to be evidence‐based, and delivered together in the same way each time. 
We grouped the studies according to their participants' health condition: confirmed or suspected COVID‐19; ARDS; viral pneumonia; severe respiratory failure; and patients with a variety of these conditions. 
What did we find? 
We included 21 studies and identified three ongoing studies. The studies were conducted in eight countries, most commonly China and the USA, and were published between 1999 and 2020. Over 2000 participants in total were involved in the studies. Seven studies included patients with COVID‐19, seven with ARDS, five with viral pneumonia, one with severe respiratory failure and one with a mixture of conditions. 
