Treatment of dental and orthodontic problems in thalassaemia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about how best to treat dental and orthodontic problems in people with thalassaemia. 
Background 
Red blood cells make an oxygen‐carrying pigment known as haemoglobin. In thalassaemia the haemoglobin is not normal, due to defects (mutations) in two specific types of genes, leading to the classification of alpha (α) or beta (β) thalassaemias. About 5% of the world population are carriers of the mutation that causes the α‐globin gene to only function partially or not at all, for the β‐globin gene the carrier rate is about 1.5%, and millions more are being identified each year. Both forms of thalassaemia are mainly found in the belt of countries stretching from sub‐Saharan Africa, through the Mediterranean region and the Middle East, to South and South‐East Asia. Currently, due to people moving from country to country, these disorders are now also found in many other parts of the world. 
When people inherit two copies of the mutated gene, the defective haemoglobin in the red blood cells does not release oxygen normally into the body, resulting in the symptoms of thalassaemia. These defective cells build up in the body's organs and bone marrow cells, causing both tissue damage and cell death. This leads to anaemia, which is a decrease in red blood cells. The lack of oxygen due to anaemia can stop organs from working normally, so, depending on severity of the condition, blood transfusions are often needed to correct the drop in red blood cells. The body tries to compensate for this anaemia naturally by increasing the number of formative red blood cells which causes expansion of the bone marrow spaces. In the skull, cheekbones and jawbones, this expanding bone marrow leads to abnormal bony swellings, which results in jaw deformity and teeth not being in their correct position (known as malocclusion). Difficulties with speech, eating and appearance result from severe changes to the face and jaw. These visible features can cause distress in people with thalassaemia and have a negative impact on their quality of life. 
Since people with thalassaemia inevitably have to focus on dealing with the serious impact of anaemia on their general health to survive and on managing complications related to its long‐term treatment, they may neglect other dental problems like tooth decay, gum disease, infections, etc. As a result ordinary dental infections can become more severe and require advanced treatment. Before starting any kind of dental treatment in people with thalassaemia, practitioners need to consider both the underlying condition and the effects of the resulting anaemia or its treatment. Dental treatment may be particularly risky in people with thalassaemia who have had their spleen removed, which can make them more prone to infections. 
Given the significant effects of dental and orthodontic problems on the lives of people with thalassaemia, it is important to find the best way to treat them effectively. However, due to a lack of information in scientific literature, there are no guidelines to suggest the best treatment plan. Therefore, we aimed to search for any evidence for treating dental and orthodontic complications in people with thalassaemia and make it available to healthcare providers as well as people with this condition. 
