Benzodiazepines for panic disorder in adults
Why is this review important? 
Panic disorder is common in the general population and is characterised by recurrent unexpected panic attacks consisting of a wave of intense fear that reaches a peak within a few minutes. Agoraphobia often develops after one or more panic attacks and is a fear of being in situations where escape may be difficult or help would not be available if needed. Panic disorder is treated with psychological interventions and medication, often used in combination. Although not usually recommended as first‐line treatment, benzodiazepines are frequently used in the treatment of panic disorder. Benzodiazepines show a rapid onset of action, but they also have a high risk of dependency and withdrawal symptoms. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Patients and general practitioners.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
How effective is treatment with benzodiazepine compared to placebo (a sham treatment) in treating panic disorder with or without agoraphobia? 
How acceptable are benzodiazepines compared to placebo in treating panic disorder with or without agoraphobia? 
How many people with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia who are treated with benzodiazepines experience side effects compared to placebo? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched electronic databases and study registers to find all relevant studies. We only included randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to a treatment group using a random method) that compared treatment with benzodiazepine and placebo in adults with a diagnosis of panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. We only included studies in which patients and the clinicians did not know which treatment they received. We included 24 studies with a total of 4233 participants in our review. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We found consistent evidence for a possible advantage of benzodiazepines in the improvement of panic symptoms and in the number of participants dropping out of treatment. Furthermore, benzodiazepines may improve social functioning more than placebo. However, there may be more dropouts due to side effects and more participants who experience at least one side effect when treated with benzodiazepines. We found several severe limitations in the design of the included studies. For example, it seems that at least in some studies participants and physicians were able to guess to which treatment arm the participants were allocated, thus it is possible that some trials were not really blinded. These limitations may have led to an overestimation of the treatment effect. Another major limitation is that our included studies were only short‐term studies and did not reflect the risks of dependency and withdrawal symptoms. Furthermore, it is unclear if the effect is maintained after the end of treatment. 
What should happen next? 
High‐quality long‐term studies should be carried out to establish whether the benefits of treatment can be maintained and to put the benefits in context of withdrawal effects and the risk of dependency. However, it is unlikely that the general conclusions regarding the short‐term efficacy and the dependency potential of benzodiazepines will change. Comparisons with other active treatment including psychotherapy, for example in multiple‐treatment meta‐analyses, may thus be more suitable to inform clinical practise. 
