Audio‐visual presentation of information used in the informed consent process for people considering entering clinical trials 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of audio‐visual presentation of information used in the informed consent process for people considering entering a clinical trial. We compared this with the usual informed consent information (either written and/or verbal) and placebo (sham) audio‐visual information. 
Background 
Before taking part in a clinical trial, potential participants must be provided with detailed information, such as what they will be asked to do and any possible benefits or harms. Once they understand what is involved, and if they are happy to take part, they usually sign a consent form. This process is known as 'informed consent'. The problem is that consent forms use technical language that can be hard to for the average person to understand. Sometimes people agree to take part in a clinical trial even though they are unsure what is involved. Presenting the consent form information in an audio‐visual format (for example, on a computer or DVD) might improve the informed consent process. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies of audio‐visual informed consent interventions which allocated people to an experimental or control group by a random or quasi‐random process, published up until June 2012. We found 16 studies, involving a total of 1884 people. Nine studies included people considering real clinical trials, eight included people asked to imagine participating in a clinical trial (a hypothetical trial), with one including both. Most of the studies were conducted in the United States. 
People were considering (or imagined considering) participation in a range of different clinical trials, including those testing cancer treatments and drugs for mental health problems. The audio‐visual informed consent information was presented on computers, DVDs, videos and CD‐ROMs. They included voice overs by professional actors, real patients talking about their experiences and a combination of words, pictures and audio to explain the technical concepts. In some studies, people also received the usual written informed consent forms and/or a face‐to‐face explanation by the study staff. 
