Traditional suburethral sling operations for urinary incontinence in women
Review question 
How do traditional slings compare with other surgical or conservative treatments for women with stress urinary incontinence (SUI)? 
Background 
A traditional suburethral sling operation is one of the surgical options for treating women with SUI. Stress urinary incontinence is loss (leakage) of urine when coughing, laughing, sneezing, or exercising. It may be due to damage to the muscles that hold up the bladder neck or damage to their nerves, which often occurs during childbirth. When stress urinary incontinence occurs together with an urge to empty the bladder that is difficult to defer (urgency urinary incontinence (UUI)), this is known as mixed urinary incontinence (MUI). The traditional suburethral sling operation aims to hold up the bladder neck with a strip of material that may be biological (made from human or animal tissue) or made of non‐absorbable synthetic plastic (mesh/tape). 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence is current to 27 February 2017. A further search on 23 January 2019 was not fully incorporated into the review. 
Study characteristics 
We found 34 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving 3244 women that compared traditional slings with drugs or other types of surgery (colposuspension, mid‐urethral slings, bladder neck needle suspension, single‐incision slings (mini‐slings); one type of traditional sling with another; and traditional slings with injectables. All trials included women with SUI, but some also involved women with UUI, who are said to have MUI. 
We did not find any studies comparing suburethral slings with no treatment or sham treatment, conservative management such as pelvic floor exercises, anterior repair, or laparoscopic colposuspension. 
Study funding sources 
Few trialists reported who had funded their work.
Key results 
Surgery appears to work better than drugs for treating urinary incontinence. Some evidence suggests that women had less leakage with traditional slings in the medium term (one to five years) compared with those undergoing colposuspension (a major abdominal operation), and fewer needed repeat surgery in one trial. However, information about adverse effects is lacking. It is not clear whether traditional slings were better or worse than mid‐urethral slings (synthetic tape) in the medium term, but one small trial showed that women who had a traditional sling might have less leakage 10 years later. It is not clear whether traditional slings were better or worse than injectable treatment, bladder neck needle suspension, or mini‐slings. We found insufficient information about different types of slings compared with each other, except that slings made of porcine dermis (Pelvicol) were more likely to fail than other materials. Slings made of non‐absorbable synthetic Goretex involved more complications. 
Quality of the evidence 
Many trials were small and used different ways of measuring success, which made combining information difficult. The quality of evidence for most outcomes was judged to be low or very low. This means that most of our conclusions about traditional slings are uncertain. 
