Psychosocial interventions for self‐harm in adults
Why is this review important? 
Self harm (SH), which includes non‐fatal intentional self‐poisoning/overdose and self‐injury, is a major problem in many countries and is linked to risk of future suicide. It is distressing for both patients and their families and friends, and places large demands on clinical services. It is therefore important to assess the evidence on treatments for SH patients. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Clinicians working with people who engage in SH, policy makers, people who themselves have engaged in SH or may be at risk of doing so, and their families and relatives. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review is an update of a previous Cochrane review from 1999, which found little evidence of beneficial effects of psychosocial treatments on repetition of SH. This update aims to further evaluate the evidence for the effectiveness of psychosocial treatments for patients with SH with a broader range of outcomes. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
To be included in the review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials of psychosocial interventions for adults who had recently engaged in SH. We searched electronic databases to find all such trials published up until 29 April 2015, and found 55 that met our inclusion criteria. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There have now been a number of investigations of psychosocial treatments for SH in adults, with greater representation in recent years of low‐ and middle‐income countries such as China, Iran, Pakistan, and Sri Lanka. 
Some moderate quality evidence shows that cognitive‐behavioural‐based (CBT‐based) psychotherapy (a psychotherapy intended to change unhelpful thinking, emotions and behaviour) may help prevent repetition of SH, although it did not reduce overall frequency of SH. There were encouraging results (from small trials of moderate to very low quality) for other interventions aimed at reducing the frequency of SH in people with probable personality disorder, including group‐based emotion‐regulation psychotherapy, mentalisation (a psychosocial therapy intended to increase a person’s understanding of their own and others' mental state), and dialectical behaviour therapies (DBT; psychosocial therapies intended to assist with identification of triggers that lead to reactive behaviours and to provide individuals with emotional coping skills to avoid these reactions). Whilst DBT was not associated with a significant reduction in repetition of SH at final follow‐up as compared to usual treatment, there was evidence of low quality suggesting a reduction in frequency of SH. 
There was no clear evidence supporting the effectiveness of prolonged exposure to DBT, case management, approaches to improve treatment adherence, mixed multimodal interventions (comprising both psychological therapy and remote contact‐based interventions), remote contact interventions (postcards, emergency cards, and telephone contact), interpersonal problem‐solving skills training, behaviour therapy, provision of information and support, treatment for alcohol misuse, home‐based problem‐solving therapy, intensive inpatient and community treatment, general hospital admission, intensive outpatient treatment, or long‐term psychotherapy. 
We had only limited evidence from a subset of the studies relating to whether the intervention had different effects in men and women. The trials did not report on side effects other than suicidal behaviour. 
What should happen next? 
The promising results for CBT‐based psychological therapy and dialectical behaviour therapy warrant further investigation to understand which patients benefit from these types of interventions. There were only a few, generally small trials on most other types of psychosocial therapies, providing little evidence of beneficial effects; however, these cannot be ruled out. There is a need for more information about whether psychosocial interventions might work differently between men and women. 
