The use of hormonal treatment in relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer
Background 
Epithelial ovarian cancer (EOC) arises from the cells covering the surface of the ovary. The majority of women with this type of cancer present with advanced stage disease at diagnosis. The initial treatment involves surgery (removal of as much disease as possible) followed by chemotherapy. In some cases chemotherapy is given to shrink the cancer before surgery is undertaken. Irrespective of the type of treatment received, cancer will return at some point in some women. Treatment following relapse, usually involves chemotherapy. The choice of chemotherapy depends on the cancer‐free period from the initial chemotherapy (platinum drugs). If relapse occurs after six months from finishing initial treatment with chemotherapy, women are treated with platinum drugs. However if the cancer recurs within six months, women are treated with non‐platinum drugs, since platinum drugs would be unlikely to work again. Eventually, the majority of women develop resistance to any chemotherapeutic drug. Some women also suffer from drug‐related side effects and poor quality of life (QoL) as a result of treatment. Therefore, there is a need for newer drug treatments with fewer side effects. In this context, hormone therapy have been tried. Luteinising hormone releasing hormone (LHRH) agonist are hormones that work by telling the pituitary gland located in the brain to stop producing this hormone and as a result the tumour cells in the ovary, which may be dependent on this hormone, cannot be stimulated. LHRH agonists have been used in relapsed EOC and some studies have shown low toxicity with these hormones. 
Review question 
We conducted this review to assess whether hormonal therapy (LHRH agonist) was effective and safe compared with chemotherapy or placebo in women with relapsed EOC. 
Main findings 
We searched electronic databases and other resources for randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing LHRH agonists with chemotherapy or placebo in women with relapsed EOC.Two RCTs were identified. Since the comparisons differed, they were reported separately. Available evidence did not show improvement in overall survival and progression‐free survival at six and12 months with hormonal (LHRH) therapy. Also, major side effects (haematological and neurological) did not statistically differ between the two treatment groups, but were incompletely reported. Quality of life data were not reported in either study. 
