Can the public release of performance data in health care influence the behaviour of consumers, healthcare providers, and organisations? 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim was to find out if publicly releasing information about the performance of healthcare providers (e.g. hospitals and individual professionals) has a measurable influence on changing the behaviour of consumers, providers, and purchasers of care. We also sought to determine whether this affected the performance of healthcare providers, patient outcomes, and staff morale. 
Key messages 
Public release of performance data may lead to little or no difference in healthcare choices (made by either consumers or providers), or provider performance. However, it may slightly improve outcomes for patients. 
What was studied in the review? 
Healthcare providers are increasingly expected to inform the public on how well they are performing. However, it is not yet known whether public release of performance data has a measurable influence on patients' choice of healthcare services, or whether it can truly drive improvements in the quality of health care. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The authors searched the literature for studies evaluating the effects of publicly releasing healthcare performance information, and found 12 relevant studies that analysed data from more than 7570 providers, and a further 3,333,386 clinical encounters, e.g. individual patients. 
There was low‐certainty evidence that public release of performance data may lead to little or no difference in the services that patients choose to access, the decisions taken by healthcare providers, or overall provider performance. There was low‐certainty evidence suggesting that some patient outcomes may slightly improve following public release of performance data, but that this might have less of an effect on the behaviour of disadvantaged populations. There was no evidence relating to healthcare utilisation decisions by purchasers, or adverse effects. 
Although a number of the studies were individually well conducted, there were limitations: in particular, the evidence base varied substantially in terms of setting (e.g. United States or Korea), health condition (e.g. heart attack or hip replacement), type of performance data (e.g. process or patient outcome), and the mode of data publication (e.g. mail shot or poster). Their findings were also inconsistent, with some reporting changes attributed to public release of information, and others reporting no such changes. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to June 2017.
