Ketamine and other glutamate receptor modulators for depression in adults
Why is this review important? 
Depression is one of the most common mental disorders, estimated to affect 350 million people worldwide. Antidepressant medication tends to be given as a first treatment for people with major depression. These drugs are however only effective in about one in four people at one year. Effective alternative medications to treat depression are needed, especially for rapid treatment. A new group of medications is called ‘glutamate receptor modulators’, which act on the glutamergic system. This group includes the medicine ketamine. In this review we examined the evidence for glutamate receptor modulators, including ketamine, as a treatment for depression. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
‐ People with depression, their friends and families.
‐ General practitioners, psychiatrists, psychologists and pharmacists.
‐ Professionals working in adult mental health services.
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
1. Is treatment with ketamine and other glutamate receptor modulators more effective than treatment with placebo (dummy pill) or other drugs? 
2. Is treatment with ketamine and other glutamate receptor modulators more acceptable than placebo or other drugs? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched medical databases to find all relevant studies (specifically randomised controlled trials) completed up to 30 July 2020. To be included in the review, studies had to compare ketamine or other glutamate receptor modulators with placebo, other medicines or electroconvulsive therapy (ECT) for depression in adults (aged 18 and over). The studies also had to be single‐blind (the participant does not know which treatment they are receiving) or double‐blind (neither the participant or researcher know which treatment the participant is receiving), to attempt to reduce bias. We included 64 studies in the review, involving a total of 5299 people. The studies investigated16 different glutamate receptor modulator medications. The majority of participants had treatment‐resistant depression (depression which had not responded to two or more medications) at the start of the studies. Most studies were two‐armed, where the glutamate receptor modulator was compared with one other intervention. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
Among the 16 drugs included in this review, only ketamine and esketamine were more effective than placebo at reducing symptoms of depression. The effects of ketamine lasted no more than one week after treatment and clearly disappeared after two weeks. Ketamine did, however, cause more side effects than placebo. The effects of esketamine were seen at 24 hours and could last up to four weeks with repeated doses. Esketamine caused a lot more side effects than placebo. The certainty of evidence varied considerably. 
There was no evidence of a difference between the other glutamate receptor modulators included in this review and placebo or other medications. 
What should happen next? 
Ketamine and esketamine appear to reduce the symptoms of depression. However, the trials were all short term so we do not know about the long‐term effects. It is important to note that in some trials attempts to prevent participants and investigators from knowing what medicine was being given were not successful and this may have inflated the positive effects of the active drugs. 
Future studies should examine what happens when people are repeatedly given the drug, with the aim to mimic the real‐world practice and assess longer‐term effects. More non‐inferiority trials should be conducted, where glutamate receptor modulators are compared with other active medications rather than placebo to find out whether they are better than alternative treatments. 
In most of the ketamine trials in this review, participants were given the drug by injection into a vein. This restricts the wide‐scale application of ketamine in clinical settings, so trials of ketamine by other routes are needed. Esketamine trials usually used nasal sprays, which are easier to use and could potentially be taken at home if further monitoring and trials found that it was safe to do so. Further studies assessing administration are needed in order to draw more reliable and firm conclusions. 
