Group‐based parent training programmes for improving emotional and behavioural adjustment in young children 
Review question 
We wanted to know if group‐based parent training programmes are helpful in improving emotional and behavioural adjustment in young children. 
Background 
Emotional and behavioural problems are common among infants and toddlers and, for many children, these problems continue into their early school and teenage years as well. Parenting practices play an important role in how emotional and behavioural problems in children develop. Parent training programmes aimed at parents of infants and toddlers might help to prevent such problems before they start, as well as treat them after they are established. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific literature for all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs published up to July 2015. RCTs are studies in which people are randomly allocated to treatment groups. Quasi‐RCTs are studies in which people receive treatment based on methods that are not strictly random such as date of birth, or their hospital record number, and the results of quasi‐RCTs are generally considered less trustworthy than those of RCTs. 
We found 24 trials (22 RCTs and two quasi‐RCTs) to include in our review. These studies included, in total, information from 3161 parents and their young children. Eight studies had been carried out in the USA, five in the UK, four in Canada, five in Australia, one in Mexico, and one in Peru. 
All of the studies looked at behavioural, cognitive‐behavioural or videotape modelling parenting programmes. Behavioural programmes are aimed at helping parents develop methods that will reduce bad behaviour, usually with the use of techniques such as praise or rewards. It also aims to help parents set limits that make sense. Cognitive‐behavioral skills allow parents think about behaviour patterns and focus on solutions. Programmes can use a variety of techniques; for example, videotape modelling programmes enable parents to learn by watching videotaped films of other parents implementing some of the techniques described above. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Some of the studies we found included people chosen specially because they were ‘at risk’ of behavioural problems, while others included parents and children without any specific risks. When we put all of the studies together, overall, we found that group‐based parenting programmes can improve the emotional and behavioural development of young children, although the quality of the evidence was, on the whole, low. Furthermore, our findings were not convincing when we removed two studies that used quasi‐randomised methods. 
Our findings also showed evidence of an improvement in externalising problems (these might include negative behaviours in children or young people that are directed towards the external environment such as anger, aggression or conflict with the law). However, the evidence for this, once again, came from studies that we rated as being of only moderate quality, and was only found for some parts of the outcome measure (known as a subscale). 
Results from single studies that could not be combined with other studies and that were of poor quality, on the whole, showed no impact on children’s internalising problems (e.g. depression and anxiety). However, there was some improvement on one subscale of a measure that focused on children’s hyperactivity‐inattention and another subscale that focused on social skills. 
There was moderate‐quality evidence that group‐based parenting programmes also improve the way in which parents and children interact, as measured by fewer negative behaviours. 
Our reasons for rating the quality of the evidence as low or moderate included: inconsistency in the findings from different studies (different studies yielded different results); unclear risk of bias (where it was not possible for us to assess the ways in which the included studies might be biased due to inadequate information); and small numbers of parents in the included studies. 
