Ultrasound and shockwave treatment for recently broken bones in adults
Broken bones (fractures) are a major cause of disability in adults. The time taken for a bone to heal (achieve "union") is an important factor in determining recovery after an injury. A minority of fractures fail to heal at all or their healing takes considerably longer than expected. This review set out to find out whether treatment with ultrasound, in a variety of forms, accelerates fracture healing and reduces complications associated with new (acute) fractures. A related intervention, shockwave therapy, was also examined. Typically, ultrasound treatment involves placing a special device in contact with the skin overlying the fracture site for around 20 minutes on a daily basis. 
This is an update of a review previously published in February 2012. We did a new literature search up till 2 June 2014 but did not find any new studies. There are 12 studies, involving 622 participants with 648 fractures, included in this review. In all the studies we included, participants were assigned randomly to one of two groups, one group receiving treatment by ultrasound and the other group receiving no treatment or sham treatment. Most participants had a recent complete fracture of a single bone. The participants of two trials had 110 incomplete or stress fractures that resulted from heavy exercise. Four trials tested the effects of ultrasound on healing of 203 upper limb fractures and the other trials, on 130 lower limb fractures. The most commonly investigated bone was the tibia (shin bone). Eleven trials tested low‐intensity pulsed ultrasound and one trial with 59 fractures tested shockwave therapy. 
Most trials compared a working ultrasound device with a sham device and thus protected against placebo effects. The placebo effect is a phenomenon whereby patients experience a treatment effect that is not objectively attributable to the treatment itself. However, studies varied substantially in terms of quality and risk of having biased results. In many cases the quality of reporting was poor, which made it difficult to determine which biases might have affected each study. The risk of bias across many domains therefore had to be judged as 'unclear'. The results of many trials were probably biased because of missing data from several trial participants. Additionally, the trials were very different from each other; for example, they varied in the bone that was broken and whether or not the fractures were also treated surgically. Based on analyses that adjusted for these missing data, the available evidence did not confirm that ultrasound improved the time taken for bone healing or prevented the problem of the bone failing to heal at all (eight trials with 333 fractures). The results from one low quality trial (with 59 fractures) testing shockwave therapy were inconclusive. 
