Chemotherapy and supportive care versus supportive care alone for advanced non‐small cell lung cancer 
Non‐small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is the most common type of lung cancer. If the tumour has spread from the lung to other parts of the body (advanced) it cannot usually be cured. Doctors use different treatments to prevent or relieve symptoms and keep patients well for longer. This sort of treatment is sometimes called best supportive care. 
In 1995, we did a systematic review and meta‐analysis of individual patient data looking at adding chemotherapy (drug treatment) to best supportive care. It gathered together information from all patients who took part in similar trials. These trials compared what happened to people with NSCLC who were given chemotherapy and best supportive care with those who only had best supportive care. We found that giving chemotherapy helped patients with advanced NSCLC to live longer. 
Since this study was published, many new trials have been done. Therefore, we did a new systematic review and meta‐analysis of individual patient data that included all trials, old and new. This study aimed to find out how much better chemotherapy as well as best supportive care was at helping patients to live longer. It also looked to see if new drugs were better or worse than older drugs, and if chemotherapy helps all types of patients. 
We found that people with advanced NSCLC that had chemotherapy and best supportive care lived longer than those who had best supportive care. After 12 months, 29 out of every 100 who were given chemotherapy and best supportive care were alive compared to 20 out of every 100 who just had best supportive care. 
Some patients and doctors may be concerned that the side effects of chemotherapy outweigh the benefits of receiving it. In this project we were unable to look at this in detail. However, three of the trials included in this project reported that for those patients who received chemotherapy, quality of life was either the same or better than those that did not receive chemotherapy. 
This study showed that chemotherapy in addition to supportive care helped some patients to live longer, even the elderly and less fit. 
