Do beds, mattresses and mattress toppers that apply constant pressure to the skin and are not air‐filled or made of foam prevent pressure ulcers? 
Key messages 
Due to a lack of robust evidence, it is unclear whether most types of surface that apply constant pressure to the skin and are not air‐filled or made of foam prevent pressure ulcers. 
Lying surgery patients on an operating table with a gel surface that applies constant pressure to the skin and then a hospital bed with a foam surface, rather than using air‐filled surfaces, may increase the risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
Future studies should focus on options and effects that are important to decision‐makers, such as: 
‐ gel surfaces that apply constant pressure to the skin, compared to air‐filled or foam surfaces; and 
‐ whether and when pressure ulcers develop, unwanted effects and costs.
What are pressure ulcers? 
Pressure ulcers are also known as pressure sores or bed sores. They are wounds to the skin and underlying tissue caused by prolonged pressure or rubbing. They often occur on bony parts of the body, such as heels, elbows, hips and the bottom of the spine. People who have mobility problems or who lie in bed for long periods are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
What did we want to find out? 
There are beds, mattresses and mattress toppers specifically designed for people at risk of pressure ulcers. These can be made of a range of materials (such as foam, air cells or water bags) and are divided into two groups: 
‐ reactive (static) surfaces that apply a constant pressure to the skin, unless a person moves or is repositioned; and 
‐ active (alternating pressure) surfaces that regularly redistribute the pressure under the body. 
We wanted to find out if reactive surfaces that are not air‐filled or made of foam:
‐ prevent pressure ulcers;
‐ are comfortable and improve people’s quality of life;
‐ have health benefits that outweigh their costs; and
‐ have any unwanted effects.
What did we do? 
We searched the medical literature for studies that evaluated the effects of beds, mattresses and mattress toppers with a reactive surface that was not air‐filled or made of foam. We compared and summarised the results of these studies, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 20 studies (4653 people, average age: 73 years) that lasted between seven days and six months (average: four weeks). The studies compared reactive surfaces filled with water or gel, or made of fibre, against other active or reactive surfaces. 
In general, the studies did not provide sufficiently robust evidence for us to determine if reactive surfaces that are not air‐filled or made of foam prevent pressure ulcers. 
Evidence from two studies suggests that people who undergo surgery may be more likely to develop pressure ulcers when they lie on an operating table with a reactive gel surface and then a hospital bed with a foam surface, rather than on active air‐filled surfaces. 
The other benefits and risks of gel and other reactive surfaces are unclear. No studies reported information about quality of life and cost. 
What limited our confidence in the evidence? 
Most studies were small (198 people on average) and used methods likely to introduce errors in their results. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to November 2019.
