Comparing different types of scan (CT, MRI, bone scan) for diagnosis of clinically suspected scaphoid fractures, when initial radiographs are negative 
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the accuracy of imaging tests to detect true scaphoid fractures among suspected fractures. 
When a patient presents to the emergency department with wrist injury and clinical signs of a scaphoid fracture, normal initial radiographs do not exclude a fracture. Approximately 20% of them do have a true scaphoid fracture and need additional imaging to establish a definitive diagnosis. Because of the low healing potential of the scaphoid bone, adequate diagnosis and treatment is vital to prevent complications such as non‐union. If a patient is clinically suspected for a scaphoid fracture, their wrist will be immobilised in a cast until definitive diagnosis is obtained. This fear of under‐treatment results in a large amount of over‐treated wrist injuries. Computed tomography (CT), magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and bone scintigraphy (BS; bone scan) are all imaging modalities that can be chosen at this stage. The aim of this systematic review was to establish which is the superior technique for identifying a true fracture and preventing unnecessary treatment. A high sensitivity reduces the risk of missing fractures; a low specificity increases the number of unnecessary treatments. 
We conducted a thorough search of electronic databases, trial registers and conference proceedings up to July 2012. We included 11 studies in our analysis. The studies were moderate to good quality. Four studies (277 suspected fractures) looked at CT, five studies (221 suspected fractures) looked at MRI and six studies (543 suspected fractures) looked at BS. Four of these studies directly compared two modalities, such as both CT and MRI. When we compared the pooled data for the different imaging tests from all studies, we found that BS has the highest sensitivity, but specificity was lower than CT and MRI. All three imaging tests were found to be highly accurate for definitive diagnosis. CT and MRI were comparable in diagnostic accuracy (the correct diagnosis is made). Although BS had significantly better accuracy than CT and MRI, it could lead to more people receiving unnecessary treatment. Moreover, BS is an invasive technique and is believed to be inappropriate for use in some populations, especially children. 
Future studies should focus on improving clinical evaluation to raise the prevalence of true fractures. In addition, more direct comparison studies could add valuable data to determine which modality is superior in diagnosis of suspected scaphoid fractures. 
