Probiotics for the treatment of active Crohn's disease
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether probiotics can induce remission in people with Crohn's disease. We analysed information from two studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
It is unclear whether probiotics are better than placebo (dummy pill). No serious adverse events occurred in either study. 
What was studied in the review? 
Crohn's disease is a medical condition that causes inflammation of the bowels and can lead to symptoms of ulcers in the mouth, abdominal pain, diarrhoea, obstruction, fistulisation (tunnels between the bowels and nearby organs), abscesses, malnutrition, low haemoglobin (blood) levels, and fatigue. There is some evidence to suggest that an imbalance in the bacteria of the gut is a cause of the disease. Probiotics, which are live microorganisms, could alter the bacteria of the gut and possibly reduce inflammation. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly placed into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing probiotics with placebo. There were two RCTs, with information on 46 people. The trials looked at adults. It is unclear whether probiotics are different to placebo for inducing remission of Crohn's disease. It is unclear whether probiotics lead to a difference in adverse events (minor and serious) when compared with placebo. 
Conclusion 
This review found two studies that examined and showed no benefit of probiotics for the treatment of active Crohn's disease. Since the studies were very small, no definite conclusions can be made at this time. Probiotics were generally well tolerated; there was just one side effect leading to the stopping of treatment with probiotics, but details of this were not given. With the evidence presented in these studies, we are unable to make conclusions as to the effectiveness of probiotics. Better designed studies, with more participants, are needed. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
This review is up‐to‐date as of 6 July 2020.
