Advance care planning for adults with heart failure
Review question 
To investigate how strategies of advance care planning (ACP) affect people with heart failure. 
Background 
People with heart failure present with various symptoms, such as breathlessness and fatigue, and symptoms are often complicated with periodic exacerbations and recoveries. Current clinical guidelines emphasise the importance of discussing future care with people with heart failure as well as their families. Advance care planning (ACP) is the process of discussing an individual's future care plan (e.g. the type of care/treatment that the individual prefers to receive, the environment or setting where the care/treatment takes place) according to their values and preferences. This interaction involves the individual, the responsible healthcare providers, family members, and other immediate carers/supporters. ACP may improve discussion about a patient's future care and documentation of an individual's preferences regarding care. However, it is unclear whether ACP is beneficial in improving quality of life, depression, and overall satisfaction with care among people with heart failure. 
Study characteristics 
In October 2019, we searched for studies assessing the effects of ACP in people with heart failure. We included studies that delivered ACP, which included different methods such as discussion and consideration of individuals' values and preferences on future care and medical treatment compared to usual care strategies. 
Key results 
This review included nine studies involving 1242 participants and 426 families/carers. Data from seven studies (876 participants) showed that ACP may increase completion of documentation by medical staff regarding discussions with participants about ACP processes and may improve depression of participants. All‐cause mortality might be increased in participants receiving ACP. The effects of ACP on quality of life remained uncertain due to the inclusion of small studies in our meta‐analysis. This is further illustrated by the fact that only one study reported whether the received end‐of‐life care met participants' preferences. Similarly, only one study reported the quality of communication during ACP between participants and healthcare providers. Therefore, the effects of ACP on whether end‐of‐life care met participants' preferences and on quality of communication were uncertain. None of the studies evaluated satisfaction with care. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was low/very low. Since the number of studies and patients in this review was small, the effects of ACP were limited. There is clearly a need for high‐quality evidence from large studies to fully explore the effects of ACP for people with heart failure, in particular their quality of life and whether end‐of‐life care received after ACP actually meet their preferences. 
