Ustekinumab and briakinumab for the treatment of active Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease?  Crohn's disease is a long‐term (chronic) inflammatory bowel disease that can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from mouth to anus. Symptoms include abdominal pain, non‐bloody diarrhoea, and weight loss. 
What are ustekinumab and briakinumab?  Ustekinumab and briakinumab are biologic medications. These medications can be injected under the skin using a syringe or directly infused into a vein (intravenous). Biologic therapies suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation associated with Crohn's disease. When people with Crohn's disease are experiencing symptoms of the disease it is said to be ‘active’; periods when the symptoms stop are called ‘remission’. 
What did the researchers investigate?  The researchers investigated whether ustekinumab or briakinumab produce remission in people with active Crohn's disease; and whether these medications cause any harms (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to 12 September 2016. 
What did the researchers find?  The researchers identified six studies that included a total of 2324 participants. Two studies compared briakinumab to placebo (a fake medicine) and four studies compared ustekinumab to placebo. All of the studies were high quality. 
There was no difference in the proportion of briakinumab and placebo participants who achieved remission. An increase in side effects or severe side effects were not seen with briakinumab compared to placebo. The most common side effects in briakinumab participants were reactions at the site of injection and infections. Based on the results of these two studies the manufacturers of briakinumab stopped production of this medication. 
High quality evidence suggests that ustekinumab is better than placebo for helping participants achieve remission and for reducing symptoms of active Crohn's disease. Different doses of ustekinumab were investigated and moderate to high quality suggests that 6.0 mg/kg is the most effective dose. An increase in side effects or serious side effects was not seen with ustekinumab compared to placebo. Infections were the most common adverse event in ustekinumab patients. Worsening of Crohn's disease and serious infections were the most common serious side effects in the ustekinumab studies. Ustekinumab is a promising as a therapy for inducing remission and improving symptoms in people with Crohn's disease. Further studies are required to determine the long‐term effectiveness and safety of ustekinumab in patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease. The ideal dose of ustekinumab also needs to be determined. 
