Do competitions help smokers to quit in the medium to long term?
Background 
In competitions designed to help people to quit smoking, participants are encouraged to quit while also having the chance to win a reward if they are successful in doing so. Some contests allow groups of smokers to compete against each other directly, with the group in which the most smokers quit winning a prize. Alternatively, a person who quits smoking might be entered into a lottery to win a prize, such as cash payments, vouchers, salary bonuses, promotional items (t‐shirts, pens or bags), holidays, or luxury goods (cars or boats). A particular type of stop smoking competition called the ‘Quit & Win' contest took place internationally until 2006. 
Study characteristics 
This review has merged studies from two previous reviews. One of the reviews was of competitions and incentives for quitting smoking. The studies that investigated incentives are now in a separate review. Here we include the studies which investigated competitions, alongside the studies originally included in our review of Quit & Win contests. We also searched for more recent relevant studies that were published up to June 2018. We include 20 studies of more than 11,000 participants that investigated competitions to encourage people to quit smoking. In five of these studies, groups of smokers recruited from workplaces competed directly against each other. In the other 15 studies, successful quitters were entered into prize draws. 
Key results and the quality of the evidence 
None of the studies in which groups of smokers competed against each other directly found that more people quit than in similar groups of smokers who were not entered into a competition. Combining the results of randomized controlled trials of lottery‐type competitions, which provide the best evidence, did not show evidence that competitions increase rates of quitting smoking. Three Quit & Win contests did find that people who were in the contest had higher quit rates than people in a comparison community, who did not take part. However, these studies were of low quality and appeared to have very little effect on the overall smoking rates in the community, as fewer than one in 500 smokers appeared to quit because of the Quit & Win contest. 
