Use of vitamin A and fish oils for retinitis pigmentosa
What is the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to determine whether vitamin A and fish oils work in delaying the continued worsening of vision in people with an inherited condition of the eyes that causes loss of vision (retinitis pigmentosa) and whether these treatments are safe. 
Key messagesWe are uncertain whether giving vitamin A or fish oil, or both to people with retinitis pigmentosa delays the continued worsening of vision, as the certainty of the evidence was very low. More research is needed, in particular information about whether vitamin A and/or fish oil with or without other vitamin supplements may affect clinical outcomes. 
What was studied in the review?Retinitis pigmentosa is a group of inherited eye disorders that cause a gradual, yet progressive, loss of vision. People with this eye disorder have difficulty seeing in low‐light conditions, problems with vision out of the corner of the eye, and in most cases, gradually become visually impaired. Vitamin A or fish oils, or both have been proposed as having possible benefit in helping delay the progression of vision loss in this group of people. 
What are the main results of the review?We found four studies that were conducted in the USA and Canada, including a total of 944 participants between the ages of 4 and 55 years. The participants were given vitamin A or fish oil, or both because of their inherited eye disorder and were followed for four years. People who were given vitamin A or fish oil, or both, were compared with those who were not given vitamin A or fish oil. Participants in the vitamin A and/or fish oil group were given different doses of vitamin A or fish oil for differing lengths of time. Participants in the no‐vitamin A and/or fish oil group were given pills that did not include vitamin A or fish oil (placebo pills); other treatments thought to prevent progression of vision loss such as multivitamins with or without traces of vitamin A; or no treatment at all. 
The review shows that whether vitamin A or fish oil, or both, makes any difference in delaying the progression of visual loss is uncertain. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?We searched for studies that had been published up to 7 February 2020. 
