What surgical procedure works best to slow the progression of keratoconus (an eye disease)? 
Why is this question important?Keratoconus is a disease that affects the thin, clear outer layer of the eye, known as the cornea. Normally, the cornea is dome‐shaped. In people with keratoconus, the cornea slowly thins, and a cone‐shaped bulge develops in the center of the cornea. The disease usually begins between the ages of teens and 40, and persists throughout life. It causes blurry or distorted vision that may not be improved by wearing glasses and may result in perforation of the cornea and other visual problems. 
Treatments such as glasses and contact lenses can be used to improve the vision of people with keratoconus. However, these do not slow the progression of the disease. The only treatment known to slow disease progression is ‘corneal collagen crosslinking’ (CXL). 
CXL is a surgical procedure that aims to strengthen the cornea and prevent further thinning. It involves shining ultraviolet A (invisible) light rays onto eyes that have been treated with eye drops containing riboflavin (a vitamin). When the light rays meet the riboflavin, new links form between the fibers that make up the cornea. 
There are two types of CXL. One type requires the removal of the cells on surface of the cornea, to make it easier for the riboflavin to reach the cornea. This procedure is called ‘epithelium‐off CXL’. The other type does not require the removal of these cells. This procedure is called ‘transepithelial CXL’. Surgeons who carry out this procedure can use chemicals to help riboflavin penetrate the cells on the surface of the cornea. They can also deliver riboflavin to the cornea using a small electrical current (iontophoresis). 
Epithelium‐off CXL is the more commonly used procedure. However, transepithelial CXL could have advantages, such as faster healing and less patient discomfort. We reviewed the evidence to find out which of these two procedures is more beneficial and less risky for people with keratoconus. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?We searched the medical literature for studies that compared epithelium‐off CXL against transepithelial CXL. Then we compared the results and summarized the evidence from all the studies. We rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What did we find?We found 13 studies with a total of 567 people. The studies took place in Europe, the Middle East, India, Russia, and Turkey. The shortest studies lasted six months, and the longest study lasted more than three years. Eleven studies compared transepithelial CXL without iontophoresis against epithelium‐off CXL. Three studies compared transepithelial CXL with iontophoresis against epithelium‐off CXL. 
Transepithelial CXL without iontophoresis compared to epithelium‐off CXL 
We do not know if one procedure is better than the other for preventing progression of keratoconus or visual loss because too few robust studies have compared the effects of these two CXL methods. 
Evidence from four studies suggests that corneal hazing (clouding of the cornea) or scarring are probably more common with epithelium‐off CXL. 
Transepithelial CXL with iontophoresis compared to epithelium‐off CXL 
Evidence from two studies suggests that there may be little to no difference between the two procedures in changes to vision clarity. We do not know if one procedure is better than the other to prevent progression of keratoconus because two few robust studies have compared the two methods. 
The evidence does not suggest that one procedure leads to more unwanted events than the other. However, our confidence in this evidence is low, because it is based on three studies that did not use robust methods. 
