Clozapine dose in schizophrenia
Background: Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness that affects thinking and perception. People with schizophrenia often experience profound disruptions in their speech, emotional processes, behaviour and sense of self. Antipsychotic medication can be a helpful treatment for schizophrenia; however, taking antipsychotic medication can have unpleasant effects. Clozapine is an antipsychotic drug that can be useful in treating schizophrenia, particularly when other antipsychotic medications have not worked. It is unclear, however, what dose of clozapine is most effective with the least side effects. This review investigates the effects of receiving clozapine at four different dose levels (high dose, standard dose, low dose, very low dose). 
Searching: An electronic search for studies that randomised people with schizophrenia to receive different doses of clozapine was run in August 2011 and again on 8 December 2016. 
Results: We found five studies with 452 participants which met our inclusion criteria. Each compared the effects of clozapine at very low dose (up to 149 mg/day), low dose (150 mg/day to 300 mg/day) and standard dose (301 mg/day to 600 mg/day). None of the studies examined the effects of clozapine at higher than the standard dose. There was nothing to choose between standard, low and very low doses in terms of body mass index (BMI) measurements in the short term. However, weight gain was greater in those receiving the standard dose compared to those receiving the low dose. The incidence of unpleasant side effects (which included feeling lethargic, producing too much saliva, and feeling dizzy) was less at low dose compared to standard dose. 
Quality of evidence: For main outcomes the quality was low or very low. 
Conclusions: We found no evidence that might indicate the best dose of clozapine for patients with schizophrenia. Careful consideration has to be given to balancing the advantages and disadvantages of different doses in relation to weight gain and other side effects. Overall measurements of BMI were similar between groups; however, some side effects appear to be lower at lower doses. Overall, this review highlights the lack of evidence‐based information available for addressing the question of what dose of clozapine is most effective with the least side effects. There is a need for large, well‐designed and well‐reported randomised clinical trials to address this question. There is a particular need for such trials to look at longer‐term outcomes, and to examine the effects of clozapine when given at greater than the standard dose. 
