Hospitalisation in short‐stay units for adults with internal medicine diseases and conditions 
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out whether short stays in hospital in short‐stay units improve outcomes in adults with internal medicine diseases and conditions compared to usual care. 
Key messages 
We are unsure about the effect of short‐stay unit hospitalisation for adults with internal medicine diseases and conditions compared to usual care. The evidence was uncertain for several important reasons; including not having enough data, differences among participants and co‐interventions, and problems with the methods that the trials used that could have led to false results. We need more high‐quality trials to test the impact of short‐stay unit hospitalisation on individual patients and costs. 
What was studied in the review? 
Short‐stay units are hospital units that provide short‐term care in selected patients. Their services are often defined by the type of patient, the unit's function, and a time frame. Studies have indicated that short‐stay units may reduce the number of people admitted to hospital, the length of time they spend in hospital, the number of people who have to go back into hospital (readmission), and costs, without losing any quality of care, but a thorough evaluation of effects of short‐stay unit hospitalisation compared with usual care (mainly hospitalisation in a traditional hospital ward) was lacking before we conducted the present review. The review focused on short‐stay unit hospitalisation for internal medicine diseases and conditions, such as pneumonia or chest pain. We compared the effect of short‐stay unit hospitalisation with usual care by looking at deaths (mortality), serious problems (serious adverse events), quality of life, activities of daily living (such as managing housework or medications ), hospital readmission, non‐serious adverse events, and costs. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found 14 relevant trials with a total of 2872 participants. All trials were randomised trials, i.e. people participating in the trials had been assigned by chance alone to either hospitalisation in a short‐stay unit or a control group that received usual care. Randomised trials are considered to be the most reliable trial design to test effects of an intervention. 
