How accurate are tests (Xpert Ultra and Xpert MTB/RIF) for diagnosing tuberculosis outside the lungs (extrapulmonary tuberculosis) and rifampicin resistance? 
Why is using Xpert tests for extrapulmonary tuberculosis important? 
Tuberculosis is one of the top 10 causes of death worldwide. Tuberculosis mainly affects the lungs (pulmonary) but may occur in other parts of the body (extrapulmonary). When people receive proper and timely treatment, tuberculosis is usually curable. One problem involved in managing tuberculosis is that the bacteria become resistant to antibiotics. Not recognizing tuberculosis early may result in delayed diagnosis and treatment and increased illness and death. An incorrect tuberculosis diagnosis may result in increased anxiety and unnecessary treatment. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To update the evidence on accuracy of Xpert tests for diagnosing extrapulmonary tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance in adults. Rifampicin is an important tuberculosis drug. We included tuberculous meningitis and pleural, lymph node, bone or joint, genitourinary, peritoneal, pericardial, and disseminated tuberculosis. 
What was studied in this review? 
Xpert Ultra and Xpert MTB/RIF are rapid tests for simultaneously diagnosing tuberculosis and rifampicin resistance. We combined study results to determine:‐ sensitivity: people with tuberculosis (rifampicin resistance) correctly diagnosed as having the condition.‐ specificity: people without tuberculosis (rifampicin resistance) correctly identified as not having the condition.The closer sensitivity and specificity are to 100%, the better the test. We measured Xpert results against culture and a composite reference standard (neither is a perfect reference standard because extrapulmonary tuberculosis is paucibacillary (few bacteria)). 
What are the main results in this review? 
69 studies tested lymph node, pleural, and cerebrospinal fluid, and other specimens from people with presumptive extrapulmonary tuberculosis. Studies were conducted in 28 different countries. 
