Alternative or additional agents to platelet transfusions to prevent bleeding in people with blood cancers receiving intensive treatment 
Review question 
What is the best way to prevent bleeding for people being treated with intensive chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation for blood, or bone marrow cancers? Should we use platelet transfusions (the current standard treatment), or use other agents instead of (or as well as) platelet transfusions. 
Background 
Approximately one in eight cancers arise from the blood, bone marrow, or lymph nodes. These cancers are divided into many different types that are treated differently. Examples include acute myeloid leukaemia and lymphoma. Some of these cancers can be cured with high‐dose (intensive) chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation. These treatments destroy the cancer but can also damage the normal blood‐producing cells. One consequence of this is a reduction in the number of platelets in the blood. Platelets are essential to make the blood clot normally. Consequently, people receiving these treatments are vulnerable to bleeding until their platelets increase in number. 
Platelet transfusions (taken from a blood donor) are often given to try to prevent people with blood cancer from bleeding. We do not know how well these transfused platelets work. We know that there are risks from platelet transfusion, such as transmission of infections. It is possible that there are better ways to prevent bleeding in this setting. In this review, we examined whether other agents could be used instead of (or as well as) platelet transfusion to prevent bleeding. We also assessed the risk of serious side effects, such as forming abnormal blood clots (thromboembolic events). Potential agents include artificial platelets, platelet‐poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII, desmopressin and thrombopoietin mimetics. Terms and treatments are described in the glossary in the 'Published notes' section of this review). 
