Repeated lumbar or ventricular taps in newborns with intraventricular haemorrhage
Review question 
Cochrane researchers reviewed the evidence about the effect of removal of cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) via lumbar or ventricular puncture and draining CSF via a needle inserted into the base of the spine or into a fluid‐filled cavity in the brain on improving rates of disability, death, and the need for a permanent surgical procedure in preterm infants who have had bleeding inside the cavities of the brain (intraventricular haemorrhage (IVH)). 
Background 
Babies that are born preterm are at risk of developing IVH. IVH can cause an excess of CSF to build up on the brain. The risk of this happening might be reduced by the removal of blood in the CSF via lumbar or ventricular taps. This might reduce the need for a permanent surgical procedure called a ventriculoperitoneal shunt (VPS). VPS is problematic as it can easily become infected and often has to be replaced or repaired, which requires an operation. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for trials up to 24 March 2016 that compared removing CSF via lumbar or ventricular taps in all babies at risk of developing a build‐up of fluid on the brain against a conservative approach where this was only done if there was evidence that the build‐up of fluid was causing an excess of pressure in the brain. We included four trials that included a total of 280 preterm infants treated in neonatal intensive care units in the UK. The trials were published between 1980 and 1990. 
Key results 
We found no evidence that removal of CSF by lumbar or ventricular taps reduces the need for a permanent shunt to be inserted. There was also no evidence that it reduced the risk of major disability, multiple disability, or death. There was insufficient evidence to determine if this approach can lead to an increased risk of developing an infection in the CSF. 
Quality of the evidence 
We assessed the outcomes of major disability, multiple disability, and disability or death as high quality evidence. 
We recorded the quality of the evidence for the outcomes of shunt insertion, and death or shunt insertion as low quality evidence, as there was an issue with the random allocation method in one included trial that reported on this outcome. 
For the outcomes of death and infection of CSF presurgery, the quality of the evidence was moderate due to the previously mentioned problem with allocation. In addition these studies did not have enough patients to sufficiently answer the question. In the case of the outcome infection of CSF presurgery, the results were inconsistent between the included trials. 
