Haloperidol versus first‐generation low‐potency antipsychotic drugs for schizophrenia
Drugs called antipsychotics are the main treatment for schizophrenia. Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness where sufferers experience both positive symptoms of delusions and hallucinations and negative symptoms such as apathy, lack of drive, disorganisation of behaviour and thought. This review examined whether a high‐potency antipsychotic, haloperidol is more effective than low‐potency antipsychotics. The classification into high‐potency and low‐potency medication means that for low‐potency antipsychotic drugs, higher doses are necessary to obtain the same effect and response in patients. Haloperidol is the most frequently used antipsychotic drug in many countries and, along with other high‐potency antipsychotics is often considered more effective than low‐potency antipsychotics. Typical examples of low‐potency antipsychotic drugs are chlorpromazine, chlorprothixene, thioridazine or levomepromazine. High‐ and low‐potency antipsychotics also seem to differ in their side‐effects. Low‐potency drugs cause sedation and poor muscle strength, whereas high‐potency drugs produce side‐effects such as movement disorders (the inability to sit still, uncontrollable shaking and difficulty in walking). The review is based on results of a search run in 2010 and includes 17 studies with a total of 877 participants comparing haloperidol with low‐potency antipsychotic drugs.The results do not clearly show a superiority of haloperidol compared with low‐potency antipsychotics. However, more participants from the low‐potency drug group experienced weight gain and sedation. The experience of at least one movement disorder was significantly higher with haloperidol. The number as well as the quality of studies is low, for the main outcomes of interest the authors rated quality of evidence for as moderate quality for two of them, two as low quality and one as very low quality. So the evidence is not strong and more newer studies would be needed in order to draw a conclusion about whether or not haloperidol is superior to low‐potency antipsychotics. For people with schizophrenia it is important to know that there is moderate quality evidence that haloperidol and low‐potency antipsychotics are approximately equal in their effectiveness, but there is lower quality evidence that they clearly differ in side‐effects (such as weight gain and movement disorders). 
