Do health education interventions lead to early treatment for women with symptoms of endometrial (womb) cancer 
Background Endometrial (womb) cancer arises from the uncontrolled growth of abnormal cells in the lining of the womb. Diagnosis when the disease is still at an early stage (cancer is still within the womb, without spread into nearby tissues) is common, as most women with the disease experience abnormal vaginal bleeding and go to their doctors. However, delayed management of endometrial cancer still occurs. This is particularly a problem for women who are about to go through or are in the menopause. Providing educational information to women and healthcare providers regarding symptoms relating to endometrial cancer may raise awareness of the disease and reduce delayed treatment. We undertook this review to assess whether endometrial cancer education led to women with endometrial cancer symptoms visiting their doctors and being referred for treatment earlier than when there was no education. 
The aim of the review We undertook this review to assess whether endometrial cancer education led to women with endometrial cancer symptoms visiting their doctors and being referred for treatment earlier than when there was no educational information available. 
Main findings We planned to include randomised controlled trials (studies in which people or groups of people are allocated by chance to two or more groups, treating them differently). In the absence of randomised controlled trials, we planned to include studies where participants were not randomised but that included an assessment of the benefits of health education compared to no health education. We searched scientific databases and checked the titles and abstracts of 4880 possibly relevant articles and assessed the full text of 16 of these references. However, we found no studies that met our inclusion criteria. 
Conclusions There is currently an absence of evidence to indicate whether providing health education to healthcare providers, or individuals or both, promotes early presentation and referral for women with symptoms of endometrial cancer. 
