Acupuncture for fibromyalgia
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of acupuncture on fibromyalgia. 
The review shows that in people with fibromyalgia: 
‐ acupuncture is probably better than non‐acupuncture treatment in reducing pain and stiffness and improving overall well‐being and fatigue; 
‐ acupuncture with electrical stimulation is probably better than needling alone in reducing pain and stiffness, and improving overall well‐being, sleep and fatigue; 
‐ acupuncture without electrical stimulation probably does not reduce pain or improve fatigue, overall well‐being or sleep; and 
‐ acupuncture probably enhances the effect of drugs and exercise on pain.
What is fibromyalgia and what is acupuncture? 
When you have fibromyalgia, you experience pain in many sites of your body, with a range of other symptoms including joint stiffness, sleep disturbance, fatigue and mood disorders, which affect the quality of life. There is no cure and few treatment options for fibromyalgia at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and improve your well‐being and the ability to function. 
Acupuncture is a form of Chinese medicine and uses fine needles to stimulate certain areas of the body, called acupuncture points. Acupuncture is commonly used by people to reduce various forms of pain. It works by reducing inflammation, stimulating the release of your body's own pain killer, that is endorphins, and calming your brain. It is safe with few, short‐lasting side effects. If supported by the overall body of evidence, acupuncture will offer much needed effective symptom relief for fibromyalgia. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with fibromyalgia who use acupuncture: 
Comparing acupuncture with sham interventions 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain)
‐ People who had needle acupuncture with electrical stimulation rated their pain to be 13 points lower on a 100‐point scale (absolute improvement) after six sessions of treatment. 
