Duloxetine for treating painful neuropathy, chronic pain or fibromyalgia
Review question 
Does duloxetine work to treat pain generated by nerves when they have been damaged in disease, or the pain caused by fibromyalgia? 
Background 
Duloxetine is a drug used to treat depression and urinary urge incontinence (leakage of urine) and it can be also be useful for certain types of pain. Pain can arise spontaneously when there is damage to nerves that carry pain information to the brain (neuropathic pain). When this damage is to nerves outside the spinal cord it is called a peripheral neuropathy. Another type of pain, nociceptive pain, occurs when the nerves sense damage to another tissue (for example, a pinprick in the skin). Some pain is of unclear origin and occurs without apparent nerve or tissue damage. This sort of pain happens, for example, in fibromyalgia. The objective of this review was to assess the benefits and harms of duloxetine for treating painful neuropathy and chronic pain of all sorts. 
Study characteristics 
We looked at all the published scientific literature and found 18 trials, involving a total of 6407 participants, that were of sufficient quality to include in this review. Eight trials tested the effect of duloxetine on painful diabetic neuropathy and six on the pain of fibromyalgia. Three trials treated painful physical symptoms associated with depression and one small study investigated duloxetine for the pain from strokes or diseases of the spinal cord (central pain). 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
The usual dose of duloxetine is 60 mg. At this dose, there was moderate quality evidence that duloxetine reduced pain in both painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy and fibromyalgia. In diabetic peripheral neuropathic pain, a 50% or better improvement with duloxetine 60 mg per day was just over one and a half times more likely than with placebo. Another way of saying this is that five people with painful diabetic peripheral neuropathy had to receive duloxetine to achieve a 50% or better response in one person. The effect on fibromyalgia was similar but the number needed to treat for one person to improve by 50% or more was eight. On the basis of a single study it is not possible to determine if a dose of 20 mg is effective, and 120 mg was no more effective than 60 mg. 
We calculated that for diabetic neuropathy there have been enough trials to draw these conclusions and no more trials are needed. In fibromyalgia and the painful symptoms associated with depression, more trials are required to make convincing statements about the effectiveness of duloxetine. 
Most people taking duloxetine will have at least one side effect. These are mostly minor and the most common are feeling sick, being too awake or too sleepy, headache, dry mouth, constipation or dizziness. About one in six people stop duloxetine because of side effects. Serious problems caused by duloxetine are very rare. 
Although duloxetine is beneficial in the treatment of neuropathic pain and fibromyalgia there is little evidence from trials comparing duloxetine to other antidepressant drugs as to which is better. 
