Platinum‐containing regimens for metastatic breast cancer
What is the issue? Metastatic breast cancer occurs when the cancer has spread to areas of the body beyond the breast and nearby lymph nodes. Although metastatic breast cancer is generally not curable, it is widely accepted that women with metastatic disease should receive some form of chemotherapy to help ease the severity of disease symptoms, while hopefully extending survival time. Chemotherapy containing platinum is known to be effective for treating a number of cancer types including lung, testicular, head and neck, bladder and ovarian cancers, but it also known to cause more adverse effects (such as nausea and vomiting, hair loss, anaemia, kidney damage and leukopenia (low white blood cells)) than other chemotherapy options. The two platinum agents most commonly used for treating metastatic breast cancer are carboplatin and cisplatin. 
The original version of this review (2004) concluded that chemotherapy containing platinum did not increase survival time for women treated for metastatic breast cancer. Since then, however, researchers have discovered that there are a variety of subtypes of breast cancer which may respond differently to different types of chemotherapy. One of these subtypes — triple‐negative breast cancer (TNBC) — makes up approximately 12 to 17% of breast cancers and is associated with shorter survival and higher likelihood that the cancer returns. Some researchers have speculated that chemotherapy containing platinum might be more effective in treating metastatic TNBC (mTNBC) than other chemotherapy options. 
Why does it matter? There are at least two reasons why it is important to update the evidence on this topic. First, it is important to assess whether our 2004 conclusions — based on 12 early studies — are representative of the 24 studies who have now published or provided results through to 2015. Second, it is important to assess whether chemotherapy containing platinum increases survival for women with mTNBC more than other chemotherapy options. 
We asked whether chemotherapy treatments containing a platinum agent are more or less effective for treating women with metastatic breast cancer than chemotherapy treatments not containing a platinum agent. We also asked the same question, but with a focus on women with mTNBC. 
