Treatments for hidradenitis suppurativa
Background 
Hidradenitis suppurativa (HS) is a long‐term, distressing skin condition involving multiple painful boils in skin creases, such as the armpits, groin, and genital region, estimated to affect about 1 in 100 people. It typically begins in early adulthood and has a large impact on quality of life because of pain, scarring, and low self‐esteem. Doctors and the general public have largely ignored the condition, in part because people with HS do not wish to draw attention to their condition, so there is a relative lack of evidence to guide treatment. 
Review question 
What are the beneficial and harmful effects of treatments for hidradenitis suppurativa in terms of changes in quality of life and side effects? 
Study characteristics 
Our review included only randomised controlled trials (RCTs); we included 12 trials, containing a total of 615 people. In most cases, only a single trial that was too small to provide meaningful results investigated the treatments. There was no RCT evidence to support several quite commonly used treatments. The average duration of the trials was four months, long enough to check whether a treatment works initially but not long enough to show the duration of disease control or to detect delayed side effects. 
Key results 
The evidence from two trials for clindamycin lotion applied to the skin and oral tetracyclines was relatively weak, despite these antibiotics being standard treatments for mild to moderate HS. There were four pharmaceutical industry‐sponsored trials of anti‐TNF‐α (tumour necrosis factor‐alpha) therapies, which included etanercept, infliximab, and adalimumab. Of these, a trial of etanercept did not find benefit, whereas a small trial of infliximab reported an improvement in quality of life after eight weeks. A larger trial, including 154 participants, investigated adalimumab. There was no benefit for moderate to severe HS at standard psoriasis doses of 40 mg every other week, but 40 mg weekly did improve quality of life. The estimate of quality of life improvement ranged from a level that probably would help people with HS to a level that might not be enough to justify use of adalimumab. The trial found no increase in serious side effects, including infections, but it was not large enough to detect rare effects. There were no trials investigating when to perform surgery or what surgical procedure to consider. One trial looked at inserting an antibiotic sponge into wounds after removal of HS lesions, but found no benefit compared with surgery without the antibiotic sponge. There were three trials of laser‐type treatments, but the trial quality was too low to recommend these therapies. 
Quality of the evidence 
Our review has highlighted a need for more clinical trials to give better evidence to guide treatment choices in HS. More trials of oral treatments are required as well as surgical studies. Future trials should include patient‐reported outcomes, such as quality of life and pain. 
