Does physiotherapy improve pain and disability in adults with complex regional pain syndrome? 
Key messages 
We are very uncertain if physiotherapy treatments improve the pain and disability associated with complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS). 
We are very uncertain because the clinical trials we found:
‐ were not conducted or reported as well as they could have been (or both);
‐ included small numbers of patients with CRPS;
‐ tested a large range of different types of physiotherapy treatments; and
‐ because there were a limited number of trials that investigated any particular physiotherapy treatment. 
We are very uncertain if physiotherapy treatments cause unwanted side effects; more evidence is required to clarify this. 
Good‐quality clinical trials are required to further investigate whether or not physiotherapy treatments improve the pain and disability associated with CRPS. 
Treating pain and disability in adults with complex regional pain syndrome 
Complex regional pain syndrome is a painful and disabling condition that can occur after trauma or surgery and is associated with significant pain and disability. CRPS can be classified into two types: type I (CRPS I) in which a specific nerve injury has not been identified and type II (CRPS II) where there is an identifiable nerve injury. Guidelines recommend that physiotherapy rehabilitation should be included as part of the treatment for CRPS. Physiotherapy for CRPS could include a range of treatments and rehabilitation approaches, such as exercise, pain management, manual therapy, electrotherapy or advice and education, either used alone or in combination. Physiotherapy is recommended because it is thought that it may improve the pain and disability associated with CRPS. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if physiotherapy treatments improve pain and disability in adults (aged over 18) with CRPS. 
What did we do? 
We searched for clinical trials that involved adults with CRPS, which compared physiotherapy treatments to placebo treatments or routine care or which compared different physiotherapy treatments to each other. 
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as trial methods, size and length of follow‐up. 
What did we find? 
We found 33 clinical trials that involved 1317 people in total with CRPS type I of the upper or lower limb, or both. The trials investigated the effect of a range of physiotherapy treatments. We found only one trial involving 22 people with CRPS type II. 
Here we present the findings from comparisons between different physiotherapy treatments and placebo treatments or routine care and for comparisons of different physiotherapy treatments to each other. 
Reducing pain 
We are uncertain if any of the physiotherapy treatments investigated in the clinical trials we identified help reduce the pain associated with CRPS. 
Reducing disability 
We are uncertain if any of the physiotherapy treatments investigated in the clinical trials we identified help reduce the disability associated with CRPS. 
