Can smoking cessation interventions among adults with pulmonary tuberculosis improve their tuberculosis treatment outcomes? 
Review question 
Do treatments to help people with tuberculosis (TB) of the lungs to stop smoking also improve how they respond to treatment for their TB? 
Background 
Tuberculosis (TB) is a bacterial infection that can affect any organ of the human body. TB of the lungs can be transmitted from one person to another through the air when people who have TB cough, sneeze or spit. TB is a major cause of death in low‐ and middle‐income countries. Smokers are twice as likely to become infected with TB as nonsmokers. Smoking is a common risk behaviour among people with TB. People who breathe in secondhand smoke are also more likely to be infected with TB. When people who smoke are infected with TB, they are more likely to have a more serious form of TB. They are also more likely to refuse or to stop their treatment and are less likely to respond to drug treatment. 
Smoking can cause problems for the body's immune system (the system that protects a person from disease). However, research shows that most of these problems can be resolved after stopping smoking for six weeks. We therefore wanted to test whether quitting smoking can help people with TB by improving how they respond to treatment and reducing their infection levels. 
Review methods 
We searched various research databases that contain published and ongoing research on this topic up to the 29th of July 2015. We searched for studies written in any language, published and unpublished. We planned to include only studies that tested the success of a treatment to help someone with TB stop smoking, by comparing it to another treatment or to no treatment, using randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We considered treatments targeted at individuals (adults with TB and on TB treatment) or at whole populations. This included counselling or drug‐based interventions for quitting smoking. We were interested in studies if they measured the number of people who completed the treatment for TB or the number of people cured of TB, or both. 
