Early interventions for people at risk of developing psychosis
Review question 
Is there high‐quality evidence indicating that interventions for people at risk of developing psychosis are effective? 
Background 
Psychoses are serious mental conditions characterised by a loss of contact with reality. The first clear episode of psychosis can be preceded by a 'prodromal' period of at least six months, where a person experiences gradual non‐specific changes in thoughts, perceptions, behaviours and functioning. Although an individual is experiencing changes, they have not yet started to experience the more obvious psychotic symptoms such as delusions (fixed false beliefs) or hallucinations (perceptions without a cause). A number of services with treatment approaches that combine pharmacotherapy, psychotherapy and psychosocial treatments, developed worldwide, are now focusing on prevention of psychosis in people at risk by giving treatments during this prodromal period. This review assesses the evidence available concerning the effects of different treatment approaches for people not yet diagnosed with a non affective psychosis but who are in the prodromal stage of psychosis. 
Searching for evidence 
On 8 June 2016 and 4 August 2017 we ran electronic searches of the Cochrane Schizophrenia's specialised register of studies in order to find clinical studies that randomly allocated individuals at risk of developing psychosis to receive various treatments for preventing development of psychosis. 
Evidence found 
We were able to include 20 studies with 2151 participants. These studies analysed a wide range of treatments. All the review findings are of, at very best, low quality. There is some suggestion from one small study that people at risk of psychosis may benefit from taking omega‐3 fatty acids in terms of reduced transition to psychosis. Other studies found adding antipsychotic drugs to supportive‐care packages did not seem to make much difference in terms of transition to full illness. When cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) + supportive therapy was compared with supportive therapy alone around 8% of participants treated allocated to the combination of CBT and supportive therapy transitioned to psychosis during follow‐up by 18 months, compared with double that percentage in people who just received supportive therapy. This could be important but these data are of very low quality. All other testing of CBT and other packages of care found no clear difference between treatments for transition to psychosis. 
