Interventions for replacing missing teeth: hyperbaric oxygen therapy for irradiated patients who require dental implants 
Review question 
This review, carried out by authors of Cochrane Oral Health, was produced to compare the success of dental implant treatment carried out with and without hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBO) in patients who had previously had radiation treatment. 
Background 
Missing teeth can affect eating and speaking as well as appearance. Dental implants offer one way to replace missing teeth. Patients who have undergone radiotherapy and those who have also undergone surgery for cancer in the head and neck region may particularly benefit from reconstruction with implants. Dental implants into the bone of the jaw offer support for replacement teeth, and sometimes for replacements for parts of the mouth (prosthetics) that have been removed following surgery for cancer or as a result of damage to the bone (osteonecrosis) caused by radiation treatment. 
Hyperbaric oxygen therapy (which requires patients to breath pure oxygen under pressure in a specially designed chamber on several occasions) has been advocated to improve the success of implant treatment. It has been suggested that HBO therapy will improve the healing of the bone and tissues around dental implants in patients who have undergone radiotherapy, but this remains a controversial issue. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence on which this review is based was up‐to‐date as of 1 July 2013. One small study carried out at a head and neck cancer clinic based at a university in the Netherlands was found. The study included 26 adults who had been treated for head and neck cancer either with radiotherapy or a combination of radiotherapy and surgery. All participants were missing all their teeth in the lower jaw and were experienced problems retaining a denture. The participants were split into two groups, 13 of them were treated with HBO and the other 13 were not. 
Key results 
Only one small trial that was at high risk of bias compared treatment with HBO with treatment without HBO. The results failed to determine a benefit for HBO therapy in preventing failure of dental implants or other serious complications such as the death of bone in the jaw caused by radiotherapy treatment. More reliable studies are needed to provide the final answer to this question. 
