Anticonvulsants for alcohol dependence
Review question 
This review looked at evidence on the efficacy and acceptability of anticonvulsants alone or in combination with another medication or a psychosocial intervention for the treatment of alcohol dependence. 
Background 
Alcohol dependence is a major public health problem characterised by recidivism and a host of medical and psychosocial complications. Together with psychosocial interventions, different pharmacological interventions have been tested in trials and systematic reviews. In this review, we wanted to discover whether anticonvulsants are better than placebo or are better than other medications, psychosocial interventions or no intervention. 
Study characteristics 
In October 2013, we used electronic medical databases to find all published and unpublished medical trials that compared anticonvulsants with placebo or other interventions. We also used other sources, such as conference proceedings, likely to contain trials relevant to the review. To be included in the review, medical trials had to have a randomised design and had to include adult participants (older than 18 years of age) with a diagnosis of alcohol dependence. 
We identified 25 medical trials involving a total of 2641 participants. 80% of participants in these trials were male; mean age was 44 years. Most studies compared anticonvulsants versus placebo (17 studies), but some researchers compared anticonvulsants versus other medications (seven studies) or no medication (two studies). The mean duration of the trials was 17 weeks (range four to 52 weeks). Half of the trials took place in the USA, the other half in Spain, Brasil, Germany, Greece, Italy, India and Thailand. The anticonvulsant included in most of the trials was topiramate; other medications were gabapentin, valproate, levetiracetam, oxcarbazepine, zonisamide, carbamazepine, pregabalin and tiagabine. Included studies used 73 different rating instruments and differed in design, quality, characteristics of patients, tested medications, services provided and treatments delivered. 
Key results 
In 17 studies versus placebo, anticonvulsants were shown to be more effective than placebo in terms of number of drinks per drinking day and average heavy drinking. However, we found no clear evidence that anticonvulsants led to more participants abstaining from alcohol, fewer participants drinking heavily or fewer participants leaving treatment (dropouts). In terms of safety issues, the rate of withdrawal from treatment due to adverse effects was not lower or higher in participants treated with anticonvulsants than in those treated with placebo. Moreover, for two of 18 specific side effects (dizziness and paraesthesia), anticonvulsants were worse than placebo. Other major known side effects, such as those affecting cognitive functioning (attention, confusion, speech problems), were insufficiently explored by primary studies. For single medications, results were globally confirmed for topiramate and partially for gabapentin and valproate. 
In the five studies in which anticonvulsants were compared with naltrexone, a medication considered efficacious for the treatment of alcohol dependence, anticonvulsants were associated with a lower number of heavy drinking days, with a higher number of days before a severe relapse occurred and with a lower rate of patient withdrawal for medical reasons. However, anticonvulsants were not more or less effective than naltrexone in affecting the rate of participants who showed severe relapse, who were not drinking during the trial or who left treatment (dropouts). 
Quality of evidence 
In looking at primary outcomes (dropouts, abstinence from alcohol during the trial, number of drinks per drinking day, heavy drinking, rate of patient withdrawal for medical reasons), the quality of the included studies was considered moderate. However, moving to subgroup analysis, as in the case of single types of medications, as well as to comparisons versus other medications, the finding of the review is limited by the small number of available studies. 
Authors' conclusions 
At the current stage of research, evidence supporting the clinical use of anticonvulsants to treat alcohol dependence is insufficient. Results are conditioned by heterogeneity and by the low number and quality of studies comparing anticonvulsants versus other medications. The uncertainty associated with these results leaves to clinicians the need to balance the possible benefits/risks of treatment with anticonvulsants versus other medications as supported by evidence of efficacy. 
