Hyaluronidase for reducing perineal trauma during vaginal birth
Vaginal deliveries are associated with perineal trauma that may be unexpected tears or surgical as a result of episiotomy. Many techniques have been used to prevent perineal trauma, such as antenatal perineal massage or perineum warm compresses. Their effectiveness in reducing perineal trauma has been identified by researchers. Perineal hyaluronidase (HAase) injection was widely used in the 1950s and 1960s to reduce the occurrence of perineal trauma, pain, and the need for episiotomy. The review authors searched the medical literature for randomised controlled trials that compared perineal HAase injection during the second stage of labour with perineal placebo injection or no intervention. They identified four randomised controlled trials involving 599 women (with data available for 595 women). The methodological quality of two out of the four trials included in this review was poor. 
Two trials involving 283 women compared the effects of perineal HAase injection with placebo injection during second stage of labour and were at low risk of bias. Three trials (one three‐armed trial was analysed twice) with 373 women compared the effects of perineal HAase injection during second stage of labour with no intervention. The overall results showed that perineal HAase injection had a significantly lower incidence of perineal trauma compared with control or no intervention, but there was no difference in the incidence of episiotomy, first and second degree and more severe (third and fourth degree) perineal tears. 
There was no clear evidence that HAase injection lowered the incidence of perineal trauma, episiotomy, first and second degree and more severe (third and fourth degree) perineal tears when compared with placebo injection. No side effects were reported in the included trials. Other measures such as perineal pain and other pre‐specified secondary outcomes were not measured by the included trials. The difference in the incidence of perineal trauma may be due to bias and confounding in the non‐placebo controlled comparison, this result should be interpreted cautiously. 
