Milnacipran for fibromyalgia in adults
Fibromyalgia is characterised by persistent, widespread pain and tenderness, sleep problems, and fatigue. Common pain‐relieving medicines such as paracetamol and ibuprofen are not usually considered effective. Medicines used to treat epilepsy or depression can be effective in some people with fibromyalgia and other forms of chronic (persistent, long‐lasting) pain where there may be nerve damage. Milnacipran is an antidepressant, and antidepressants are widely recommended for treating fibromyalgia. Milnacipran is licensed to treat fibromyalgia only in some parts of the world, particularly the USA. 
This review is an update of one originally published in 2012, which examined how well milnacipran worked in both fibromyalgia and neuropathic pain conditions (pain from damage to nerves or disease affecting the nerves). Here we examine only fibromyalgia. The earlier review showed that milnacipran worked, but only in a small proportion of people with fibromyalgia. This is the same as all other fibromyalgia treatments to date, and for chronic pain conditions generally. We use a definition of 'worked' that involved both a high level of pain relief and the ability to take the tablets over a longer time without side effects being intolerable. 
We searched scientific databases for studies that looked at the effects of milnacipran in adults with fibromyalgia who had moderate or severe pain. The treatment had to last at least eight weeks. The evidence is current to May 2015. 
We identified six studies that satisfied the inclusion criteria, including one new study for this update. Over 4000 participants were treated with milnacipran 100 or 200 mg, or placebo, for 8 to 24 weeks at the target dose. Overall study quality was good, although the method of analysis for our primary outcomes of pain relief could overestimate treatment effect. 
Milnacipran at either dose provided moderate pain relief (at least 30% reduction in pain intensity) to 1 in 10 (10%) more people than did placebo (high quality evidence). This relatively modest effect may be clinically important in this difficult‐to‐treat condition. Adverse events were reported by most participants in all treatment groups, but were more common with milnacipran than placebo (high quality evidence), with nausea (feeling sick) and constipation showing the greatest differences (moderate quality evidence). Serious adverse events were uncommon, fewer than 1 in 50 (2%) participants, and did not differ between treatment groups (low quality evidence). The numbers of participants dropping out of the studies (withdrawals) because of adverse events were also more common with milnacipran than placebo, and were more common with 200 mg than 100 mg (high quality evidence), while withdrawals due to lack of effect were less common with milnacipran, with no difference between doses (moderate quality evidence). 
