Comparison of surgical techniques for the treatment of patients with lumbar stenosis
Review question 
Laminectomy is the "gold standard" surgical treatment for low back spinal stenosis. The goal of this surgical procedure is to alleviate symptoms such as pain, numbness and weakness of the legs and buttocks. 
A laminectomy is a surgery wherein the complete vertebral arch is removed at the stenotic spinal level. The vertebral arch is an area of bone in the back part of a vertebra that surrounds the nervous structures inside the vertebral canal. During a laminectomy, the vertebral arch is removed to allow spinal nerves to function unimpeded. 
More recently, however, surgical techniques have been developed that limit the amount of bone taken from the vertebra and minimise damage to back muscles and ligaments during surgical exposure. Removing less bone and preserving back muscles and ligaments during surgical treatment may help keep the spine stable and reduce back pain. This approach may also decrease the risk of complications related to surgery. 
Researchers of The Cochrane Collaboration compared three of these newer surgeries (called unilateral laminotomy, bilateral laminotomy and split‐spinous process laminotomy) with the gold standard laminectomy, which is widely used today. All patients in the studies selected for this review experienced symptoms (spinal stenosis can show up on magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), even if you don't have symptoms). These three techniques limit the extent of bone taken from the vertebra and minimise damage to back muscles and ligaments, but they achieve this through different surgical approaches. 
Researchers assigned to this review paid particular attention to the following measurements: the ability of an individual to care for himself and perform activities of daily living, whether symptoms reported before surgery have returned and recovery of leg pain. 
Study characteristics 
This review comprises published research studies current through June 2014. A total of 10 randomised controlled trials (RCTs), or studies comparing one treatment to another, were included in the final analysis. In total, the included studies looked at 733 participants. 
