Early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) for increasing functional behaviors and skills in young children with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether early intensive behavioral intervention (EIBI) can improve functional behaviors and skills, reduce the severity of autism, and improve intelligence and communication skills for young children (less than six years old) with autism spectrum disorders, also called ASD. Cochrane researchers gathered and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found five relevant studies. 
Key messages 
The evidence supports the use of EIBI for some children with ASD. However, the results should be interpreted with caution, as the quality of the evidence is weak; only a small number of children were involved in the studies, and only one study had an optimum design in which children were randomly assigned to treatment groups. 
What was studied in the review? 
We examined EIBI, which is a commonly used treatment for young children with ASD. We looked at the effect of EIBI on adaptive behavior (behaviors that increase independence and the ability to adapt to one's environment); autism symptom severity; intelligence; social skills; and communication and language skills. 
What are the main results of this review? 
We found five relevant studies, which lasted between 24 months and 36 months. Of the five studies, three were conducted in the USA and two in the UK. Only one study randomly assigned children to a treatment or comparison group, which is considered the 'gold standard' for research. The other four studies used parent preference to assign children to groups. A total of 219 children were included in the five studies; 116 children in the EIBI groups and 103 children in generic, special education services groups. All children were younger than six years of age when they started treatment; their ages ranged between 30.2 months and 42.5 months. These studies compared EIBI to generic, special education services for children with ASD in schools. 
