Modern combined oral contraceptives for treatment of pain associated with endometriosis
Review question 
The combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) is commonly used to treat pain associated with endometriosis but how well it works is unclear. 
Background 
Endometriosis is a common women's healthcare condition where the endometrium (lining of the womb) grows at sites outside the womb, such as the ovaries (which produce eggs). Endometriosis is commonly found in women with painful periods, pain with sexual intercourse, pelvic pain and infertility (difficulty in having a baby). Hormonal treatments, including COCPs and medicines called gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone analogues (for example, goserelin) are used to relieve the pain symptoms associated with endometriosis. However, many of the hormonal treatments have side effects which limit their acceptability and duration of use. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane authors searched for clinical studies on 19 October 2017. We found five trials, including 612 women, that met the inclusion criteria. The studies took place in Egypt, the US, Japan and Italy. 
Key results 
Only three of the included studies provided data in a format that could be analysed in this review. 
Combined oral contraceptive pill versus placebo 
We found two trials including 354 women that compared the COCP with a placebo (pretend treatment). The evidence was at high risk of bias. There was very low quality evidence that treatment with the COCP was associated with an improvement in self‐reported dysmenorrhoea (period pain) at the end of treatment measure on a verbal rating scale (where the woman rates her pain as (for example) "no pain," "slight pain," "moderate pain," "severe pain" and "unbearable pain") and low quality evidence for an improvement in self‐reported dysmenorrhoea pain at the end of treatment using a visual rating scale (where the woman marks her pain visually on a line) compared with placebo. There was very low quality evidence that there was a reduction in menstrual pain from the beginning to the end of treatment in the COCP group compared with women having a placebo. 
