¹⁸F‐FDG PET scan for early prediction of developing Alzheimer’s disease or other dementia in people with mild cognitive impairment (MCI) 
Background 
The numbers of people with dementia and other cognitive problems are increasing globally. A diagnosis of dementia at early stage is recommended but there is no agreement on the best approach. A range of tests have been developed which healthcare professionals can use to assess people with poor memory or cognitive impairment. In this review we have focused on the ¹⁸F‐FDG PET test. 
Aim 
We aimed to see how accurately the ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scan identified those people with MCI who would clinically convert to Alzheimer’s disease dementia or other types of dementia over a period of time. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2013. We included 16 studies covering 697 participants with MCI. The studies have been published over a 14‐year period (1999 to 2013). Study sizes were small and ranged from 19 to 94 participants. Five papers have a mean age of less than 70 years. The age range in the youngest sample was 55 to 73 years and in the oldest sample was 71 to 86 years. Participants were mainly recruited from university departments, clinics or research centres. The percentage of participants with positive ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scans at baseline ranged in the included studies from 10.5% to 74% and the percentage of those participants who converted to Alzheimer’s disease dementia over a period of time ranged from 22% to 50%. Included studies reported a range of different cut‐off values used for identifying their participants with positive ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scans. 
Quality of the evidence 
Our findings are based on studies with poor reporting. The majority of included studies had an unclear risk of bias, mainly because they did not describe in sufficient details how participants were selected and how the clinical diagnosis of Alzheimer’s disease dementia was justified. According to the assessment of the ¹⁸F‐FDG PET test domain, more than 50% of studies were of poor methodological quality. 
The main limitations of the review are poor reporting in the included studies, a lack of a widely‐accepted cut‐off value of the ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scan in people with MCI, and the marked variation in test accuracy between the included studies. 
Key findings 
In this review, we have found that the ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scan, as a single test, lacks the accuracy to identify those people with MCI who would develop Alzheimer’s disease dementia or other forms of dementia over a period of time. Assuming a typical conversion rate of MCI to Alzheimer’s disease dementia of 38%, the findings indicate that for every 1000 ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scans, 174 cases with a negative scan will progress to Alzheimer's disease dementia and 285 with a positive scan will not. Therefore, a positive ¹⁸F‐FDG PET scan in people with MCI is of no clinical value in early prediction of developing Alzheimer's disease dementia. 
