Does encouraging people to wash their hands stop them having diarrhoea?
Key messages 
Encouraging hand washing probably reduces the number of times children have diarrhoea, by around 30%, in communities in low‐ to middle‐income countries and in child‐care centres in high‐income countries. 
We did not find evidence about the long‐term effects of hand‐washing programmes.
What causes diarrhoea? 
‘Diarrhoea’ is the name for frequent bowel movements or the passing of unusually soft or watery faeces. Infections of the gut by bacteria, viruses, or parasites commonly cause diarrhoea, and are mostly spread through water contaminated with faeces. 
The symptoms of diarrhoea usually improve in a couple of days. However, in severe or long‐lasting diarrhoea, too much water, salts, and nutrients may be lost from the body. This loss can cause dehydration and even death. Diarrhoea is a leading cause of death and sickness among children under five years of age. 
Preventing diarrhoea 
Most deaths associated with diarrhoea are caused by pathogens acquired as a result of unsafe drinking water, poor sanitary conditions, and lack of hygiene. Washing hands with soap and water removes the bacteria, viruses, and parasites that cause disease. Programmes and activities encouraging people to wash their hands have been developed for use in communities and schools, including hygiene training, posters, leaflets, comic books, songs, and drama. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We know that hand washing at appropriate times can prevent diarrhoea, but we do not know how best to encourage the practice. We wanted to find out if programmes and activities that had been studied for this purpose were effective at increasing hand washing and reducing diarrhoea. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that investigated the use of programmes to encourage hand washing in communities, day‐care centres, schools, hospitals, and households. We were interested in whether taking part in the programmes affected the number of times people in the study reported having diarrhoea. 
We looked for studies in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
