The use of vibrating devices to help people with cystic fibrosis clear their airways of mucus 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of vibrating devices (e.g. Flutter, acapella, cornet, Quake®, intrapulmonary percussive ventilation, high frequency chest wall oscillators (e.g. Vest®), VibraLung®, MetaNeb®, and Aerobika® to help people with cystic fibrosis clear their airways of mucus. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Background 
People with cystic fibrosis have too much sticky mucus in their lungs which can lead to constant infection and inflammation. This damages their airways and worsens lung function over time. People with cystic fibrosis use chest physiotherapy to clear the mucus from their lungs. They can use different methods alone or in combination with others ‐ manual techniques, breathing techniques and mechanical devices. Vibrating devices (also sometimes known as oscillators) use pressure generated either inside or outside of the body to clear the mucus. 
Search date 
Evidence is current to 29 July 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review included 39 studies with 1114 people with cystic fibrosis aged between 4 and 63 years of age. Studies compared different physiotherapy treatments and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. Not many studies looked at the same types of physiotherapy over the same period of time; studies ranged in duration from two days to 13 months. 
Key results 
Given the differences in study design, it was difficult to combine the results from these studies in a useful way. 
We did not find any clear evidence that vibrating devices were better than any other form of physiotherapy which they were compared to in these studies, or that one device was better than another. One study found that people using an vibrating device needed additional antibiotics for a chest infection more often than those using positive expiratory pressure. When recommending the most suitable method of airway clearance, physiotherapists should consider the needs of the people they are treating. 
