Mental practice to improve arm function and arm movement in individuals with hemiparesis after stroke 
Review question 
Does mental practice improve the outcomes of upper extremity rehabilitation for individuals living with the effects of stroke? 
Background 
Mental practice is a process through which an individual repeatedly mentally rehearses an action or task without actually physically performing the action or task. The goal of mental practice is to improve performance of those actions or tasks. Mental practice has been proposed as a potential adjunct to physical practice that is commonly performed by survivors of stroke undergoing rehabilitation. 
Search date 
We searched 10 electronic databases and two clinical trials databases in September 2019. 
Study characteristics 
We included 25 studies with 676 study participants. Thirty‐four per cent of participants were women. In all studies, participants were randomly allocated to groups. The studies, which were reported from nine countries, measured one or more of the following outcomes: arm function for real‐life tasks appropriate to the upper limb (e.g. drinking from a cup, manipulating a doorknob), the amount and quality of movement in the arm, and activities of daily living. We sought but did not find evidence related to health‐related quality of life, economic costs, and adverse events. 
Key results 
Our review of the available literature provided moderate‐certainty evidence that mental practice, when added to other physical rehabilitation treatment, produced improved outcomes compared to use of the other rehabilitation treatment alone. Evidence to date shows improvements in arm function and arm movement. It is not clear whether (1) mental practice added to physical practice produces improvements in activities of daily living; (2) mental practice alone compared to conventional treatment is beneficial in improving motor control of the arm; (3) how much mental practice could produce the best results; (4) and whether mental practice is best used at a particular time after stroke. No adverse effects or harms were reported in any of the studies. 
