Oral aspirin for treatment of acute episodic tension‐type headache in adults
Bottom line 
This review found only very low quality evidence that people with 2 to 14 tension‐type headaches a month get good pain relief from taking aspirin 1000 mg or lower doses. There are questions about how studies of this type of headache are conducted. These questions involve the type of people chosen for the studies, and the types of outcomes reported. This limits the usefulness of the results, especially for people who just have an occasional headache. 
Background 
People with frequent episodic tension‐type headache have between 2 and 14 headaches every month. Tension‐type headache stops people concentrating and working properly, and results in much disability. When headaches do occur, they get better over time, even without treatment. Aspirin is a commonly used and widely available painkiller, available without prescription (over the counter). The usual dose is 300 mg to 650 mg taken by mouth. 
Study characteristics 
In September 2016, we searched the medical literature and found five studies involving 1812 participants looking at aspirin for frequent episodic tension‐type headache. About 1668 participants were involved in comparisons between aspirin at doses between 500 mg and 1000 mg and placebo (a dummy tablet). The International Headache Society recommends the outcome of being pain free two hours after taking a medicine, but other outcomes are also suggested. No studies reported pain free at two hours, or other recognised outcomes, so there was limited information to analyse for outcomes about how well aspirin works. 
Key results 
None of the studies reported on participants being pain free at two hours, and only one study reported an outcome we judged equivalent to being pain free or having only mild pain at two hours. For aspirin 1000 mg, about 10 participants in 100 used additional painkillers, compared with 30 in 100 with placebo (very low quality evidence). At the end of the study 55 in 100 participants were 'satisfied' with treatment compared with 37 in 100 with placebo (very low quality evidence). About 15 in 100 people taking aspirin 1000 mg reported having a side effect after one dose, which was the same as with placebo (low quality evidence). 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was low or very low for the comparisons between aspirin and placebo. Low and very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. 
