Mindfulness for improving mental well‐being in medical students and junior doctors
Why is this review important? 
The medical profession is recognised for its challenging and demanding nature. Medical students and junior doctors have been identified as having increased personal and professional stressors during their years of training. As a result, they face increased strain on their mental well‐being. It is important that this group is supported in their mental well‐being to ensure an overall balance in health, as well as to aid their responsibilities of patient care and patient safety. Furthermore, medical students and junior doctors are often time‐poor. Therefore, it is important to establish whether mindfulness is an effective intervention which justifies its time commitment. There are no previous Cochrane Reviews examining mindfulness in our target population.  
Who will be interested in this review? 
Medical students and junior doctors; other medical professionals at different levels of training and expertise; and institutions such as universities and hospitals involved in the education and training of medical students.  
What question does this review aim to answer? 
What effects do mindfulness‐based psychological interventions have on the mental well‐being of medical students and junior doctors? 
Which studies were included in this review? 
We searched databases to find all studies of mindfulness in medical students and junior doctors published up to October 2021. In order to be included in this review, studies had to be randomised controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to groups using a random method). Studies needed to include medical students from any year level or junior doctors in postgraduate years one, two or three. We did not exclude any studies based on participants' age, nationality or pre‐existing health conditions. We included 10 studies with a total of 731 participants in the analysis.  
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
Overall, we did not identify any evidence of an effect of mindfulness‐based interventions on anxiety or depression symptoms. However, mindfulness‐based interventions appeared to have a small positive effect on stress and a borderline positive effect on burnout. We were unable to report if mindfulness‐based interventions had any effect on deliberate self‐harm, suicidal ideation or suicidal behaviour as no studies examined these outcomes. Lastly, as many studies lacked longer‐term follow‐up of participants, it is not possible to comment on the long‐term effects of mindfulness in medical students and junior doctors.  
