Drugs to treat fibroids
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on effectiveness and safety of a new class of medications called selective progesterone receptor modulators (SPRMs) for treating premenopausal women with uterine fibroids. 
Background 
Fibroids (non‐cancerous masses within the muscle layer of the womb) are a common condition. Fibroids can negatively impact a woman's health by causing heavy periods, creating symptoms related to their size (such as pressing on the bladder or rectum) and/or making it difficult to conceive. 
A new class of medication called SPRMs has shown promise for treatment of women with fibroids. The class of SPRMs includes various drugs such as mifepristone, ulipristal acetate and asoprisnil. SPRMs can cause benign changes to the endometrium that are not related to cancer and are not precancerous. 
Search date 
We searched the literature up to May 2016.
Study characteristics 
Review authors included 14 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (1215 women) but could not obtain data from three studies. In addition, several completed registered trials had not yet reported findings. This review evaluated results of 11 RCTs that included 1021 women with fibroids. Investigators treated women with mifepristone (five studies), ulipristal acetate (four studies) or asoprisnil (two studies) and compared SPRMs with either placebo or leuprolide acetate. More than half of these studies were at low risk of bias in all domains. The most common limitation of the other studies was poor reporting of methods. 
Key results 
The main outcomes studied were changes in symptoms (fibroid‐related symptom severity, quality of life, menstrual bleeding, pelvic pain). When compared with placebo (identical "dummy" tablet that contains no active medication), SPRMs improved fibroid‐related symptoms (by an average effect of 20 points on a 100‐point scale), improved women's quality of life (by an average effect of 22 points on a 100‐point scale) and resulted in a small decrease in menstrual bleeding. Between 24% and 96% of women treated with SPRMs had no period at all (compared with 3% taking placebo). Review authors could draw no conclusions about changes in pelvic pain, as this was not consistently evaluated. Two studies compared SPRMs versus a gonadotropin‐releasing hormone agonist (leuprolide) and found that both drugs (SPRMs and leuprolide) were effective in improving symptoms related to fibroids (improving quality of life, reducing menstrual bleeding, causing cessation of periods, decreasing pelvic pain). However, we are not sure if researchers noted a difference in effectiveness between SPRMs and leuprolide. 
