Compulsory community and involuntary outpatient treatment for people with severe mental disorders 
Background 
Many countries use compulsory community treatment (CCT) for people with severe mental health problems, including Australia, Canada, Israel, New Zealand, the UK, and the US. Supporters of this approach suggest that CCT is necessary due to the shift to community care of people with severe mental illness and that it is less restrictive to compulsorily treat someone in the community than to subject them to repeated hospital admissions. They also argue that it is effective in bringing stability to the lives of people with severe mental illness. Opponents of CCT fear treatment and support will be replaced by a greater emphasis on control, restraint and threat. There is also a fear that CCT may undermine the relationship between healthcare professionals and patients, leading to feelings of mistrust and being controlled, which may drive people with severe mental illnesses away from care services. 
Given the widespread use of such powers, which compel people to follow‐up with mental health services and undergo treatment while living in the community, it is important to assess the benefits, effectiveness or possible hazards of compulsory treatment. 
Searches 
This review is based on searches run in 2012 and 2013, and updated in 2016.
Study characteristics 
This review now includes three trials with 749 people, with follow‐up in one study extending to 36 months. Two of these trials compared forms of CCT versus standard care or voluntary care and the third trial compared a form of CCT called 'community treatment order' to supervised discharge. 
Results 
Results from the trials showed overall CCT was no more likely to result in better service use, social functioning, mental state or quality of life compared with standard 'voluntary' care. People in the trial receiving CCT were less likely to be victims of violent or non‐violent crime. Short periods of conditional leave may be as effective (or non‐effective) as compulsory treatment in the community. 
Conclusions 
There was very limited information available, all results were based on three relatively small trials of low to medium quality, making it difficult to draw firm conclusions, so further research into the effects of different types of CCT is much needed. 
