Indomethacin for treatment of symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in preterm infants 
Review question 
We wanted to see how safe and effective indomethacin is when compared with no treatment or placebo (a substance with no therapeutic effect) in treating symptomatic patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) in a preterm infant. 
Background 
PDA is a common complication among preterm and low birth weight infants. PDA is an open vascular channel between the lungs and the heart, which usually closes shortly after birth. In preterm infants, the PDA remains open and may contribute to life‐threatening complications. We wanted to see if a medicine commonly used to close PDA, indomethacin, was better or worse than no treatment or placebo for preterm infants who were experiencing symptoms from their PDA. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) in preterm (born at less than 37 weeks into pregnancy) or low birth weight (weighing less than 2500 grams) infants with a symptomatic PDA diagnosed by a combination of specific clinical features and/or ultrasound of the heart. Included studies compared indomethacin versus no treatment or placebo. We searched for studies that had been published up to 31 July 2020. 
Key results 
This review of 14 clinical trials (880 infants) found that indomethacin is very effective in closing a PDA, reducing the risk of PDA being open at one week by 70%, when compared to no treatment or placebo. Of the 14 total studies, eight reported on death, which was not different between groups. Only one study reported on the number of infants needing oxygen at 28 days of life, and only one study reported on the number of infants using oxygen at 36 weeks' postmenstrual age (how many weeks pregnancy plus how long the infant has been alive). Data are not adequate to permit conclusions on these outcomes. Both studies showed no difference between those who received indomethacin or no treatment or placebo. Medication side effects or other adverse effects (such as gut bleeding, kidney injury, and bowel infection/lack of blood flow called necrotizing enterocolitis) were not different between groups. 
