Aripiprazole alone or in combination with other drugs for treating the acute mania phase of bipolar disorder 
Bipolar disorder is a mental disorder that is seen as periods of high mood called mania, or hypomania if less severe, and periods of low mood (depression). 
Medication is the main treatment for mania, with the first aim to decrease agitation, aggression and dangerous behaviour. 
Antipsychotics and other antimanic medicines are included in guidelines for treating mania. This review considers the antipsychotic, aripiprazole, and assesses how effective it is in the treatment of acute mania. It also examines the side effects of aripiprazole and discusses whether people find aripiprazole to be an acceptable treatment for themselves. 
Ten studies are included (3340 participants). Most studies compared aripiprazole versus placebo, but some researchers compared aripiprazole versus haloperidol (two studies) and versus lithium (one study). Two studies examined the effect of adding aripiprazole to another treatment (valproate or lithium) and compared this combination versus placebo combined with these other treatments. We assessed the overall risk of bias in the ten studies as unclear. 
The main measure of effect was the mean change on the Young Mania Rating Scale from the start to the end of the trial; this tool is used by clinicians to assess the severity of mania. After three weeks of treatment, aripiprazole was better than placebo at reducing the severity of mania when used on its own or when added to other mood stabilisers. The effect was modest. However, aripiprazole caused more inner restlessness (akathisia), nausea, and constipation than placebo. Aripiprazole was similarly effective in reducing the symptoms of mania when compared with other drug treatments (haloperidol and lithium). Aripiprazole caused fewer movement disorders and less raised prolactin (a hormone secreted by the pituitary gland) than haloperidol. People taking aripiprazole were more likely to remain on treatment than those taking haloperidol but were no more or less likely than those taking placebo or lithium. The main reason for the difference in dropouts between aripiprazole and haloperidol groups was the adverse effects associated with haloperidol. 
In summary, aripiprazole is an effective treatment for mania when compared with placebo. This finding is based on studies that included mixed populations (i.e. children, adolescents and adults). For the adult population, studies have directly compared aripiprazole versus haloperidol, lithium and placebo, but evidence obtained for treatment of the child and adolescent population is available only from placebo‐controlled studies. Given the lack of evidence obtained by comparing aripiprazole versus other drugs, its exact place in therapy is unclear. Further studies focused on particular populations are needed to determine whether this treatment is equally effective in different age groups. 
