S‐adenosyl methionine for depression in adults
Description of the illness 
Depression is a common, recurrent mood disorder. Usually, affected people experience symptoms such as low mood and a loss of interest or pleasure. People with depression also often experience some of the following symptoms: weight loss or gain; a decrease or increase in appetite, insomnia or hypersomnia; restlessness or fatigue as well as excessive guilt; feelings of worthlessness, poor concentration and indecisiveness; recurrent thoughts of death and suicidal thoughts. The medicines most often used in the treatment of depression are antidepressants. 
Description of the medicine 
S‐adenosyl methionine (often referred to as SAMe) is naturally present in the human body and there is evidence that it is effective as an antidepressant. SAMe has been marketed in some European countries since the mid‐1980s for the treatment of depression and for other medical conditions such as osteoarthritis (joint disease that causes joint pain and stiffness), fibromyalgia (widespread pain and stiffness), liver disease and migraine headaches. However, SAMe is not formally approved in the UK for the treatment of depression, and in the USA it is classified only as a dietary supplement. 
Aim of the review 
Given the extent of the burden of depression, the high rates of chronicity and the high number of people who do not respond to the conventional treatments, there is an urgent need to examine alternative medications. In this review, we investigated the effectiveness of SAMe in the treatment of depression. 
Results 
We searched scientific databases for all randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) in adults with a diagnosis of major depression, where SAMe was compared to either placebo (a pretend treatment) or other antidepressant medicines (e.g. imipramine and escitalopram) carried out before February 2016. 
We included eight studies involving 934 people in this review. There was no strong evidence of a difference in effectiveness between SAMe and imipramine or escitalopram when used alone. It was superior to placebo when used in combination with selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor antidepressants, but this evidence was of low quality. There was no significant difference in terms of effectiveness between SAMe and placebo alone, but again this evidence was of very low quality. The acceptability of SAMe did not differ from that of antidepressants or placebo. The exception was that fewer participants experienced side effects when treated with SAMe compared with imipramine. Though, the quality of the evidence for acceptability of SAMe was of low quality. 
Limitations of this review were that not all the relevant data could be obtained despite efforts to contact the authors and some of the included studies were of low quality. 
What should happen next 
It is not possible to draw any firm conclusions from this review and the evidence included is of limited quality. There is a need to investigate the efficacy and acceptability of SAMe for the treatment of depression in adults further in larger and better planned trials. 
