Interventions for treating gas gangrene
Background 
Gas gangrene is a serious and intense infection that may lead to amputation of a limb and even death; it is a medical emergency. It usually occurs when an injury caused by trauma or accident becomes infected, or as the result of a postoperative infection, although it can also arise without obvious injury. Gas gangrene is caused by bacteria (especially Clostridium species), which can live and grow in wounds where there is a low concentration of oxygen. The bacteria release toxins that cause substantial damage to the tissue around the wound, and can cause fatal deterioration of the whole body. Successful management of the infection requires early diagnosis and effective treatments. 
A variety of treatments are used to treat gas gangrene. The main ones are debridement (removal of dead and foreign matter, and collections of blood, from the wound) and antibiotics to kill the bacteria. Other treatments that can be added to these essential treatments include hyperbaric oxygen therapy (in which oxygen is supplied at a high pressure), and Chinese herbal medicine, as well as other interventions that address the symptoms of gas gangrene. 
Review question 
We investigated which interventions are effective and safe for the treatment of gas gangrene. 
What we found 
In March 2015 we searched a wide range of medical databases and registers of medical trials to identify randomized controlled trials (RCTs; these produce the most reliable results) that compared one treatment of gas gangrene with another treatment, or with no treatment. We identified two relevant RCTs with a total of 90 participants with gas gangrene. 
One RCT (46 participants) compared standard treatment plus treatment with Chinese herbs to standard treatment alone (debridement and antibiotics). This RCT showed a higher cure rate in the group of participants treated with the Chinese herbs than in the group that had standard treatment alone (21/26 versus 9/20 participants respectively). The definition of 'cure' used in the trial was the proportion of participants who were cured or improved. When we restricted the definition of 'cure' to those participants who were cured (and left out those who were 'improved'), the difference in cure rate between the Chinese herb group (12/26 participants) and the standard treatment group (3/20 participants) was slightly smaller. 
The other RCT (44 participants) compared standard treatment plus topical hyperbaric oxygen therapy (HBOT; applied at the wound surface) against standard treatment plus systemic HBOT that was given to the whole body. The cure rate was higher in the group of participants who had topical HBOT than in the group that had systemic HBOT (19/21 versus 11/23 participants respectively). The definition of 'cure' used in the trial was the proportion of participants who were cured or significantly improved. When we restricted the definition of 'cure' to those participants who were cured (and left out those who were 'significantly improved'), there was little difference between the topical HBOT group (3/21 participants) and the systemic HBOT group (3/23 participants). 
The quality of the evidence for both comparisons on the outcome of cure rate was very low. Neither trial reported on quality of life, amputation or death attributable to gas gangrene or harmful effects of treatment. We did not find trials that investigated any other treatments for gas gangrene. 
