Intermittent catheter techniques, strategies and catheter designs for managing long‐term bladder conditions 
Review question 
There are different catheterisation techniques, strategies and catheter designs which may affect symptomatic urinary tract infection (UTI; a bladder infection detected through urine testing where the person has symptoms of infection), other complications and user preference.  
In this review, we focussed on these outcomes in people who used aseptic or clean catheterisation techniques, single or multiple‐use catheters and different designs of catheter (e.g. coated or uncoated, standard or compact length) to determine if one approach or design is better than another. 
Background 
Intermittent catheterisation is a common strategy used by people who have bladder emptying problems. A hollow tube (catheter) is passed through the channel to the bladder (urethra) or through a surgically made channel to the skin surface. The catheter is emptied regularly, usually several times every day. Intermittent catheterisation can be done by a healthcare professional or by the person (or carer) themselves. There are various approaches to intermittent catheterisation which could impact on infection, other complications and user experience. 
There are four main types of intervention considered in this review which might make a difference to users or to costs. 
Techniques: Aseptic versus clean   
An ‘aseptic technique’ is used in healthcare settings, with specially packaged sterile equipment (gloves, lubricant and catheter) and a technique that avoids the catheter coming into contact with anything non‐sterile (including hands, equipment and surfaces) before it is inserted. 
People inserting their own catheters use a ‘clean’ technique, where the environment is kept as clean as possible and a sterile or clean (multiple‐use) catheter is used without the need for gloves. 
Strategies: Single‐use versus multiple‐use    
There are two types of catheter use: single‐use and multiple‐use. Re‐use of catheters means that the catheter is cleaned and re‐used a varying number of times (e.g. for up to 24 hours or for one week/month). 
Design: Uncoated versus hydrophilic‐coated  
Uncoated catheters are typically clear PVC and packed individually in sterile packaging. They may be supplied pre‐lubricated, or used with a separate lubricant or water to aid insertion. 
Hydrophilic‐coated catheters have a slippery coating and either are supplied ready to use, or require the addition of water. 
Design: Shorter versus standard length   
Catheters come in varying sizes and lengths to suit men, women and children, and people's different needs.  
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for evidence that had been published up to 12 April 2021.
Study characteristics 
We found 23 trials (involving a total of 1339 children and adults using intermittent catheterisation for bladder emptying) comparing different catheterisation techniques and catheter designs. 
Key results 
Aseptic versus clean techniques  
We are uncertain if there is any difference between aseptic and clean techniques in the risk of symptomatic UTI. We identified no data relating to the risk of adverse events. 
Single‐use (sterile) catheter versus multiple‐use (clean)  
We are uncertain if there is any difference between single‐use and multiple‐use catheters in the risk of symptomatic UTI because the certainty of evidence is low. One study comparing these interventions reported zero adverse events in either group and no other adverse event data were reported. 
Hydrophilic‐coated catheters versus uncoated catheters  
We are uncertain if there is any difference between hydrophilic and uncoated catheters in the number of people with symptomatic UTI. Uncoated catheters probably slightly reduce the risk of urethral trauma and bleeding compared to hydrophilic‐coated catheters. We are uncertain if there is any difference in patient satisfaction or preference. 
