Chlorpromazine versus placebo for schizophrenia
For previous plain language summary please see Appendix 3. 
People with schizophrenia often hear voices or see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). The main treatment for these symptoms of schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. Chlorpromazine was one of the first drugs discovered to be effective in the treatment of schizophrenia during the 1950s. It remains one of the most commonly used and inexpensive treatments even today. However, being an older drug (‘typical’ or first generation) it also has serious side effects, such as blurred vision, a dry mouth, tremors or uncontrollable shaking, depression, muscle stiffness and restlessness. 
An update search was carried out in 2012 and the review now includes 55 studies that assess the effects of chlorpromazine in treating schizophrenia compared with no active treatment (‘dummy’ treatment or placebo). Evidence was, in the main, rated by the review authors as low quality. There is some evidence to suggest that chlorpromazine reduces relapse and improves people’s mental health, symptoms and functioning. However, the side effects of chlorpromazine are severe and debilitating. Chlorpromazine causes sleepiness and sedation. It also causes movement disorders (such as tremors and uncontrollable shaking), considerable weight gain and lowering of blood pressure with accompanying dizziness. 
Chlorpromazine is low‐cost and widely available. Despite its many side effects, chlorpromazine is likely to remain a benchmark drug and one of the most widely used treatments for schizophrenia worldwide. 
It should be noted that the quality of evidence from the 55 included studies was low and in addition to this, 315 studies were excluded because of flaws in the reporting of information or data and in research design and methods. Larger, better conducted and reported trials should focus on important outcomes such as quality of life, levels of satisfaction, relapse, hospital discharge or admission and number of violent incidents. 
