Is voriconazole better than amphotericin B or fluconazole to prevent and treat fungal infections in cancer patients with poor immune defence systems 
Background 
Patients with cancer who are treated with chemotherapy or receive a bone marrow transplant have an increased risk of fungal infections. Such infections can be life‐threatening. Antifungal drugs are therefore often given to prevent fungal infections in such patients, either when these patients are known to have a fungal infection or when such an infection is suspected. We reviewed the evidence about the effect of voriconazole compared to amphotericin B or fluconazole to prevent or treat fungal infections in cancer patients with a poor immune system to provide defence. 
Study characteristics 
We identified three studies. Our most recent search for studies was done in January 2014. 
One trial compared voriconazole to liposomal amphotericin B in 849 men and women (58 deaths) with cancer and a poor immune system. Treatment was most often given for seven days. The treatment was provided in patients where a fungal infection was suspected because they had a fever that could not otherwise be explained. 
The second trial compared voriconazole to amphotericin B deoxycholate in 391 men and women (98 deaths) with cancer and a poor immune system. Voriconazole was given for 77 days on average whereas liposomal amphotericin B deoxycholate was given for 10 days on average. The treatment was given when patients were known or suspected to have a specific fungal infection (Aspergillus). 
The third trial compared voriconazole to fluconazole in 600 men and women (the number of deaths was not stated) with cancer who had undergone a transplantation of their bone marrow after high‐dose chemotherapy that suppresses their immune system. The treatment was given to prevent fungal infections. 
All studies were sponsored by the manufacturer of the study drug, voriconazole.
Key results 
This review found that voriconazole was inferior to liposomal amphotericin B for treatment of suspected fungal infections. More patients treated with voriconazole died and a claimed benefit in terms of fewer new fungal infections disappeared when we included patients that had been excluded without good reason from the analyses presented in the published article. We also found that voriconazole has not been compared with amphotericin B when given under optimal conditions for the treatment of invasive aspergillosis, and that voriconazole was no better than fluconazole in patients undergoing a bone marrow transplantation for preventing invasive fungal infections or for extending the time patients survive without a fungal infection. 
