Antibiotics for people with peptic ulcers caused by Helicobacter pylori infection
Review question 
Are antibiotics useful for the treatment of peptic ulcer (ulcers in the stomach or upper small intestine) in people with Helicobacter pylori (H. pylori) infection? 
Background 
Peptic ulcers are caused by acidic stomach juices damaging the lining of the stomach (gastric ulcer) or upper small intestine (duodenal ulcer). This causes pain, indigestion and sometimes, bleeding. Ulcers can return after being healed, especially if the person is infected with Helicobacter pylori (a lifelong infection unless treated). H. pylori causes most peptic ulcers. It is not clear whether eradicating H.pylori by treating with antibiotics as part of a combination of drugs (H.pylori eradication therapy) is helpful in the treatment of people with peptic ulcers compared to no treatment or other medical treatments. This is an update of a previous Cochrane review published in 2006. 
Study characteristics 
Fifty‐five studies provided information for the review. Thirty‐four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of duodenal ulcer. Two studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of duodenal ulcer. Fifteen studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of gastric ulcer. Three studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). One study compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). Four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against ulcer‐healing drug in preventing the recurrence of duodenal ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed. Twenty‐seven studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of duodenal ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed. Twelve studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of gastric ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed, while one study compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer) after initial ulcer had been healed. Four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug versus comparison regimen in the relief of symptoms from peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). There were no studies comparing H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of gastric ulcer, H. pylori eradication therapy against ulcer‐healing drug as maintenance therapy in preventing the recurrence of gastric ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed, or H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against no treatment or ulcer‐healing drug in the relief of symptoms in people with peptic ulcer. Some trials provided information for more than one comparison. The evidence is current until March 2016. 
Key results 
Adding a one to two‐week course of H. pylori eradication therapy speeds up ulcer healing for people with H. pylori‐positive duodenal ulcer when compared to ulcer‐healing drugs alone and no treatment. H. pylori eradication therapy is also effective in preventing recurrence of duodenal and gastric ulcer (ulcer returning after initial healing) compared to no treatment. There is currently no evidence that H. pylori eradication therapy is an effective treatment in people with gastric ulcer or that it is effective in preventing recurrence of duodenal ulcer compared to ulcer‐healing drugs. However, because of the small number of studies included for the last two comparisons, significant benefits or harms of H. pylori eradication therapy in acute ulcer healing of gastric ulcers compared to no treatment and in preventing recurrence of duodenal ulcers compared to ulcer healing drugs cannot be ruled out. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was low or very low because most of the studies had errors in study design. As a result, there is a lot of uncertainty regarding the results. 
