Vasectomy methods for birth control in men
Vasectomy is a surgical method used in men to cut or tie the vas deferens. The vas is a tube that delivers sperm from the testicles. The purpose of vasectomy is to provide permanent birth control. Vasectomy methods include different ways to close the vas. Variations to a vasectomy may be irrigation (flushing fluid through the vas) and fascial interposition (placing a layer of body tissue between the cut ends of the vas). Ideally, the choice of vasectomy method should be based on the best evidence from controlled trials. This review looked at how well the vasectomy methods work, how safe they were, the costs, and whether the men liked the method. 
In February 2014, we updated the computer searches for studies of vasectomy methods. For the initial review, we also looked at reference lists of articles and book chapters. We included randomized controlled trials in any language. 
We found six studies. One trial compared closing the vas with clips versus the usual cutting of the vas. The groups did not differ in reaching a low sperm count or in side effects. Three trials looked at flushing fluids through the vas: two compared vasectomy with water flushing versus vasectomy alone, and one compared using water versus euflavine (which kills sperm). None found a difference between the groups in time to low sperm count. However, one trial found that the usual number of ejaculations before low sperm count was lower with euflavine than with water. One trial that compared vasectomy with and without fascial interposition was a high‐quality large study. The fascial interposition group was less likely to have vasectomy failure. However, the surgery was more difficult. Side effects were about the same in the two groups. Lastly, one trial looked at a device placed into the vas versus vasectomy without a scalpel. The intra‐vas device did not work as well for reaching a low sperm count but more men liked the method. 
Most of the studies that looked at vasectomy methods were small, not done well, or had poor reports. Therefore, we cannot say if the methods work well, are safe or are liked by men. Vasectomy with fascial interposition worked better than simply cutting and tying the vas, but the surgery was more difficult. More and better research is needed on vasectomy methods. 
