Mechanical and surgical interventions for treating women with severe bleeding after childbirth 
This review considers evidence from randomised controlled trials on using mechanical and surgical interventions for stopping severe bleeding after giving birth. Other Cochrane Reviews consider the use of drugs that promote blood clotting or contractions of the uterus. 
What is the issue? 
Primary postpartum haemorrhage (PPH) occurs when a mother has excessive vaginal bleeding within 24 hours of giving birth (typically > 500 mL or > 1000 mL). The most common cause of primary PPH is failure of the uterus to contract after birth, and usual care is based on using drugs to reverse this. Other causes include retained placenta, vaginal or cervical tears, and failure of the blood to clot. Surgical and mechanical methods apply direct pressure on blood vessels to reduce uterine blood flow. Pressure can be applied from inside the uterus by inflating a balloon within the uterus. Alternatively, pressure can be applied on the outside surface of the uterus. This can be directly (using a hand), or by passing a stitch through the front and back walls of the uterus to compress the uterine walls together. Blood flow can also be stopped by tying off or blocking the blood vessels that feed the uterus. 
Why is this important? 
PPH is a common cause of maternal death and illness worldwide. Nearly 300,000 pregnant women die annually across the world with approximately 25% of those deaths caused by haemorrhage. It can also lead to the mother having significant long‐term medical and psychological problems. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (July 2019) and included nine small randomised controlled trials (944 women). The studies were conducted in hospital settings in Pakistan, Turkey, Thailand, Egypt (four studies) and Saudi Arabia, and health facilities in Benin and Mali. Overall, the studies were very different, with various interventions being compared. The small number of women in each study, few or zero events, lack of data on important outcomes, and wide variation in results meant that few clear findings were obtained. It was not possible to pool the results from the studies. Our certainty assessments for the trials ranged from low to very low, with the majority rated as very low certainty. This means that we cannot be confident about the results. 
Two studies (356 women) compared internal pressure using non‐commercial balloons (a water‐filled condom  and a sterilised, air‐filled 'party' balloon) and normal care. The condom catheter may result in increased blood loss, but no other important effects were seen in either study. A third study found that the condom catheter may reduce postpartum fever compared to packing of the uterus with gauze, but no other effects. 
Three studies used a commercially available balloon (Bakri). This was compared to external pressure with stitches in one study (13 women) and it was found that Bakri balloon may reduce blood loss but no other effects were seen. Another study (66 women) compared the Bakri balloon to a condom system and found little to no differences between groups. The third study (50 women) looked to see if using a stitch to tether the upper end of the balloon to the top of the uterus had any benefit, but found little to no effect. 
