Calcium channel blockers for antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia
Review question 
Are a group of medicines called calcium channel blockers (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil, flunarizine) useful for the treatment of an unpleasant side effect, tardive dyskinesia, in people with schizophrenia or similar mental health problems? 
Background 
People with schizophrenia often hear voices and see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). These symptoms are usually treated with antipsychotic medicines. However, these drugs can have debilitating side effects. Tardive dyskinesia is an involuntary movement that causes the face, mouth, tongue and jaw to convulse, spasm and grimace. It is caused by long‐term or high‐dose of antipsychotic medicines, is difficult to treat and can be incurable. A group of medicines called calcium channel blockers (diltiazem, nifedipine, nimodipine, verapamil, flunarizine) have been used as experimental treatments for tardive dyskinesia. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for clinical trials (up to April 2017) using Cochrane Schizophrenia's specialised register of trials. The review includes three small, short trials published in the 1990s. The trials randomised 47 people with schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses who had also developed tardive dyskinesia because they were taking antipsychotic medicines. The treatments the participants received were the calcium channel blockers, flunarizine, nifedipine or diltiazem hydrochloride or placebo (dummy treatment). 
Key results 
A small set of very low quality data were available from three small and poorly reported trials. Currently, it is uncertain whether calcium channel blockers are helpful in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia that is caused by taking antipsychotic medicines. Therefore, the use of calcium channel blockers for this purpose remains experimental. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence was limited and small scale. It is not possible to recommend these drugs as a treatment for antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia. To fully investigate whether calcium channel blockers have any positive effects, there would have to be more well‐designed, conducted and reported clinical trials. 
