Treatment for amblyopia caused by obstructed vision
What was the aim of the review? We examined the available evidence regarding occlusion treatment for stimulus deprivation amblyopia (SDA) with respect to vision at the end of treatment. 
Key messages There is a lack of evidence from randomized controlled trials (trials in which participants are randomly assigned to one treatment group or another) regarding the effects of occlusion treatment for SDA. 
What was studied in the review? Amblyopia or 'lazy eye' occurs when vision does not develop normally in early childhood. SDA is a type of amblyopia that occurs due to blockage of vision in the eye (for example, by a cloudy lens or droopy eyelid). Eye doctors consider this type of amblyopia to be the most difficult to treat. Although about 1% to 5% of people have some type of amblyopia, SDA is much less common, affecting about 3% of all people with any type of amblyopia. Usually SDA is diagnosed after parents observe a whitish pupil or a droopy eyelid before a baby's first birthday. SDA is often diagnosed after the cause has been treated and refractive correction (for example, wearing spectacles) is prescribed. 
The goal of treatment of SDA is to improve vision in the affected eye and to provide stereopsis, that is, 'three‐dimensional' vision and depth perception. Treatment may last for several months in order to assure that the affected eye gains as much vision as possible. Also, participation in sports and future employment may be affected by poor vision in one eye or loss of three‐dimensional vision. A common treatment is to occlude or cover the unaffected eye, often with an adhesive patch, in order to force the amblyopic eye to be used. Because young children find occlusion confusing or uncomfortable, occlusion therapy may be difficult for their parents to implement. 
What are the main results of the review? We found no randomized controlled trials that evaluated the effectiveness of occlusion therapy for SDA. Thus, well‐designed research studies of SDA are needed before we have the information we need to make treatment decisions. 
