Vitamin and mineral supplementation for preventing cognitive deterioration in cognitively healthy people in mid and late life 
Review question 
This review aimed to find out whether people aged 40 years or older could maintain their mental abilities or reduce their risk of dementia by taking vitamin or mineral supplements. 
Background 
There is great interest in anything people might do to keep themselves mentally healthy as they age and, especially, to reduce their risk of developing dementia. Various vitamin and mineral supplements have been suggested as ways to do this. Vitamins and minerals have many functions in the body and the ways they might affect brain health are not well understood. Therefore, we were interested in the effects of any vitamins or minerals, either alone or in combination. 
What we did 
We searched up to January 2018 for all trials which had studied the effect on cognition (thinking and remembering) of any vitamin or mineral supplements in people aged 40 years or more who had no cognitive problems at the beginning of the study. The studies had to include a comparison group which had not taken the supplement being studied and, to be sure the comparison was fair, it should have been decided at random whether people got the supplement or not. 
What we found 
We grouped the 28 included trials according to the kind of supplement they used and how it might work. 
Most of the trials were not originally designed to study cognition or dementia and used only simple measures of cognition. Very few studies investigated whether participants developed dementia. Long‐term studies are probably needed to find effects on the risk of dementia or cognitive decline but only 10 studies had an average length of follow‐up longer than five years. The studies were generally well‐conducted although the longer trials had difficulty following up all of the participants and this could have biased some of the longer‐term results. 
There were 14 trials of B vitamins (folic acid, vitamin B6, vitamin B12) with nearly 28,000 participants, mainly in their 60s and 70s. Most of these trials were quite short (less than two years). We found no evidence that B vitamins had any effect on cognition. 
There were 8 trials of antioxidant vitamins (beta‐carotene/vitamin A, vitamin C, vitamin E) with approximately 47,000 participants. These trials tended to be longer than the B vitamin trials so may have had more chance of detecting effects on dementia and cognitive decline. The results were mixed. We found low‐certainty evidence of better overall cognitive function after an average of 18 years taking beta‐carotene and after five years to 10 years taking vitamin C, but no effects after shorter periods of treatment. There were also small benefits of beta‐carotene, vitamin C, and antioxidant combinations on memory at some time points but not others. There was no evidence of any benefits from vitamin E alone. Two studies examined the risk of developing dementia. One found no effect of a combination of antioxidant vitamins and the other found no effect of vitamin E, either alone or combined with the mineral selenium. Most of the studies did not report any information about harmful effects. One included trial was designed to look for an effect on the risk of prostate cancer; it found a higher risk among the men taking vitamin E. 
There was a small trial of vitamin D supplements which found they probably had no effect on cognition over six months. There were longer trials of vitamin D with calcium (one trial), zinc and copper (one trial), and complex multivitamins (three trials). All lasted between five and 10 years, but none of them found any evidence of beneficial effects on cognition. One trial found no effect of selenium taken for approximately five years on the risk of developing dementia. 
Conclusions 
We found no good evidence to suggest that middle‐aged or older people can preserve cognitive function or prevent dementia by taking vitamin or mineral supplements. There were a few positive results associated with long‐term use of antioxidant vitamins, particularly beta‐carotene and vitamin C, although the effects were small. Further research into the effects of these vitamins may be worthwhile. 
