Using a structured questionnaire (the IQCODE) to detect individuals who may go on to develop dementia 
Background 
Accurately identifying people with dementia is an area of public and professional concern. Dementia is often not diagnosed until late in the disease, and this may limit timely access to appropriate health and social support. There is a growing interest in tests that detect dementia at an early stage, before symptoms have become problematic or noticeable. One way to do this is to test a person and then re‐assess them over time to see if they have developed dementia. 
Our review focused on the accuracy of a questionnaire‐based assessment for dementia, called the IQCODE (Informant Questionnaire for Cognitive Decline in the Elderly). We described whether the initial IQCODE score can identify people who will develop dementia months or years after their first IQCODE assessment. 
We searched electronic databases of published research studies, looking for all studies that looked at IQCODE and a later diagnosis of dementia. We searched from the first available papers in scientific databases up to and including January 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We found three relevant studies, all of which were carried out in specific hospital settings. Two papers only included patients with acute stroke, and the other included those who had sustained a hip fracture. The papers differed in many other ways, so we we were unable to estimate a summary of their combined results. In general, a 'positive' IQCODE picked up patients who would go on to develop dementia (good sensitivity), but mislabelled a number who did not develop dementia (poor specificity). We cannot make recommendations for current practice, based on the studies we reviewed. 
Quality of the evidence 
The included studies demonstrated some of the challenges of research that follows people at risk of dementia over time. Not all the studies had a robust method of ensuring that none of the included participants had dementia at the start of the study, and that only new cases were identified. Similarly, many of the participants included at the start of the study were not available for re‐assessment, due to death or other illness. 
