What is the best way to ensure people with epilepsy take their medication as prescribed?
Why is this question important?Epilepsy is a very common condition that affects the brain. People with epilepsy experience seizures ‐ or fits ‐ that can affect their daily lives. They are often prescribed medicines to control or prevent seizures. People with epilepsy can find it difficult to take their medicines as prescribed, and this is thought to be a reason for poor control of seizures. This review of studies reports on ways of improving how they take their antiepileptic medication. 
What we didWe searched medical databases for clinical studies looking at ways of improving adherence to medication in people with epilepsy. We limited our search to randomised controlled trials (RCTs) involving people with a clinical diagnosis of epilepsy of any age and treated with antiepileptic drugs in a primary care (for example, doctor's surgery), outpatient or other community setting. RCTs are medical studies where people are chosen at random to receive a treatment (called the intervention group) or to receive a different treatment or no treatment (called the control group). This type of study provides the most reliable evidence about whether different approaches to health care make a difference. 
The results are up to date to February 2020.
What we foundWe identified 20 studies (2832 participants). The studies were conducted in different countries with the majority from the USA. The studies examined three main types of interventions: 
1. education and counselling of participants about topics such as epilepsy and medication used to control epilepsy (4 studies); 
2. behavioural interventions, such as asking people with epilepsy to link the intention of taking their medication with a particular time, place and other routine activity (13 studies); and 
3. mixed interventions, which is the use of more than one intervention (4 studies).
One study is counted twice because it compared a behavioural intervention with a mixed intervention. 
Studies measured adherence to medication in various ways, for example, with questionnaires, blood samples or electronic bottle tops. Studies also measured reduction in frequency or severity of seizures to see if taking medication as prescribed made a difference. The studies were all very different from each other, so we could not combine their results. 
Key results and reliability of the evidenceEducation and counselling interventions may improve medication adherence. Two studies showed improvement, one study showed a small improvement and one no improvement. 
Behavioural and mixed interventions probably improve adherence to medication. People in the intervention groups showed improved adherence compared to the control groups. 
