Chest physiotherapy for acute bronchiolitis in children younger than two years of age 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of chest physiotherapy in infants younger than two years of age with acute bronchiolitis. 
Background 
Acute bronchiolitis is a frequent viral respiratory infection in children younger than two years of age. Most children have a mild disease and do not require hospitalisation. Those who do need to be hospitalised sometimes have difficulty clearing phlegm (thick mucous respiratory secretions caused by the infection). It has been proposed that chest physiotherapy may assist in the clearance of respiratory secretions and improve breathing. There are three different types of chest physiotherapy available: vibration and percussion, forced expiratory techniques and slow flow techniques that avoid blockage of the airway. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to July 2015. This review has included 12 trials with a total of 1249 participants. By type of chest physiotherapy, five trials tested vibration and percussion techniques in 246 participants, three trials tested forced expiratory techniques in 624 participants, and four trials tested slow flow techniques in 375 participants. 
Key results 
Vibration and percussion techniques produce a thorax (chest) oscillation by fast compression or percussion with the physiotherapist's hands. Neither manoeuvre was shown to improve the clinical scores of patients with acute bronchiolitis in the trials. These techniques did not show improvements in respiratory measurements, time on oxygen therapy or length of hospital stay. There were no data on time to recovery from acute bronchiolitis, use of bronchodilators or steroids, or parents' assessment of physiotherapy benefit. The trials included in this review did not present data on adverse effects related to the intervention, but the literature cites cases of relevant adverse effects such as rib fractures related to these techniques. 
Forced expiratory techniques consist of suddenly increasing the expiratory flow by compressing the thorax or the abdomen. In participants with severe bronchiolitis, such techniques failed to reduce time to recovery or time to clinical stability when compared to no physiotherapy. They also failed to improve clinical scores, oxygen saturation or respiratory rates except in mild to moderate bronchiolitis patients. There were no data on secondary outcomes such as duration of oxygen supplementation, length of hospital stay, or use of bronchodilators and steroids. Two studies reported no significant differences in parents' impression of the benefit of physiotherapy compared to controls. One of the trials reported a higher number of transient episodes of vomiting and respiratory instability after forced expiratory physiotherapy. This trial found no differences for bradycardias (decreases in heart rate), with and without desaturation (reduced oxygen levels in blood). 
Slow flow techniques consist of compressing the rib cage and the abdominal cavity gradually and gently from the mid‐expiratory phase up to the end of exhalation. Slow flow techniques showed an overall lack of benefit on clinical scores of severity of the disease. However, in two trials they provided either a short‐lived relief in terms of clinical scores or a decrease in the need for oxygen support in children with moderate bronchiolitis. There were no changes in length of hospital stay, use of bronchodilators or steroids. There were no data on changes in time to recovery, change in respiratory measurements, or parents' impression of physiotherapy benefit. No severe adverse events were reported in the trials. 
