Interventions to improve the care of adolescents with long term health conditions as they transfer from child to adult health services. 
Background 
‘Transition’ describes the process of planning and moving from children’s to adults’ services. If this process is not well managed, adolescents with long‐term health conditions sometimes fall into a gap in services, which can lead to deterioration in their health. 
Research question 
This review assessed the effectiveness of interventions to improve the transition of care for adolescents with chronic conditions and ongoing healthcare needs, as they transferred from child to adult health services. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up to 19 June 2015 and found four studies (N = 238 participants) for this review. The studies evaluated four different types of educational interventions, all targeting adolescents with different clinical conditions. All sought to improve knowledge and self‐management skills of adolescents in preparation for transition to adult care. 
Key Results 
Three of the transitional‐care programmes found that the intervention may slightly improve transitional readiness in young people, enabling them to better self‐manage and adjust to using adult health services. One transitional‐care programme that evaluated a two‐day workshop for young people with spina bifida found little or no difference in measures of transitional readiness. Transitional‐care programmes may slightly improve a young persons knowledge of their condition and their own appropriate use of health services. Transitional‐care programmes led to little or no difference in health status, quality of life or well‐being, or rates of transfer from child to adult health services. 
Certainty of the evidence 
While there is a wide range of transition programmes that are being developed in different countries, often within particular clinical specialties, this review only identified four small studies that provided low certainty evidence about educational interventions targeting participating adolescents, and no studies of interventions that targeted the organisation of care (for example, joint clinics or provision of a key worker). Other limitations with the evidence are the small number of adolescents recruited, the limited number of clinical conditions studied, the short follow up (12 months or less), and the fact that only two of the included studies reported on the primary outcome (that is, condition‐specific clinical outcomes). Despite the challenges in designing studies that can test these types of interventions, such as evaluating a complex intervention, a stronger evidence base is needed to inform the development of these services. 
