Remotely delivered information, training and support for informal caregivers of people with dementia 
Review questions 
We were interested in remotely delivered interventions involving information, training and support for family caregivers of people with dementia. By remotely delivered, we meant that they were provided over the telephone or on a computer or mobile electronic device. We asked whether these kinds of intervention helped caregivers more than doing nothing, and also whether interventions that included elements of training and support worked better than simple provision of information about dementia. 
Background 
Caring for a family member or friend with dementia can offer positive experiences, but often also has negative consequences for the caregiver. These negative consequences may be emotional, physical, social and financial, and are sometimes described as caregiver 'burden.' Many interventions have been developed to try to help caregivers in their caring role. Often, these interventions involve several components. In this review we divided the intervention components into information (increasing caregivers' knowledge about dementia), training (helping them to practice important skills for successful caring) and support (providing an opportunity to share experiences and feelings with other people). We chose to review only interventions delivered remotely, in part because we were writing during the COVID‐19 pandemic, when many countries required people to remain in their homes. However, remotely delivered interventions may also be useful in many other kinds of situations when it is difficult for caregivers to access services in person. 
Study characteristics 
We searched up to April 2020 for randomised controlled trials that addressed our review questions. We found 12 studies with 944 participants that compared groups of caregivers receiving usual care, or some non‐specific contact with researchers, with other groups receiving remotely delivered interventions that involved information with training, support or both. We found another 14 studies with 1423 participants that compared simple information provision with more complex interventions that involved training or support. The interventions lasted an average of 16 weeks. Three studies took place in China; all the others were from North America or Europe. About half used the telephone and about half used the Internet to deliver the interventions. 
What are the main results of our review? 
Compared with the usual services provided for caregivers where the studies took place, or with non‐specific contact with the researchers, we found that the information, training and support interventions probably had no important effect on caregivers' overall burden, depressive symptoms, or quality of life. Caregivers in both groups may have been equally likely to drop out of the studies for any reason. Compared to information only, interventions which included training and support may result in a slight reduction of caregiver burden, probably reduce depressive symptoms, may have little or no effect on quality of life, and probably make it more likely that caregivers drop out of the studies. We did not find any obvious effects of different intervention components, but we were not able to draw any firm conclusions about this. There was no evidence on whether the interventions improved the quality of life of the people with dementia who were being cared for. We did not find any studies that reported harmful effects of the interventions or the additional burden they might add to the caregiver's life. We do not know how the interventions would perform in countries where few health and social care services are available for people with dementia and their families, or in situations where caregivers are unable to access usual services. 
How reliable are these results? 
We found that most studies were well‐conducted, but because most outcomes were subjective, there was a risk that the expectations of the caregivers and researchers could have influenced results. For some outcomes, there were inconsistent results among studies. Overall, our confidence in our findings was moderate or low so the results could be affected by further research. 
