Opioids for treating breathlessness at the end of life
Background 
People with lung disease may experience breathlessness. Initial treatments should focus on the underlying causes of breathlessness. However, as the disease progresses, it may be better to focus on treating the symptoms. As well as standard care, opioids (e.g. morphine, given either by mouth, by nebuliser, or injected) may help relieve these symptoms. However, opioids also have side effects, such as drowsiness, constipation, nausea (feeling sick), and vomiting. 
Review question 
We wanted to know if opioid drugs reduced breathlessness in people with lung disease. We also looked at whether opioids improved their ability to exercise, and what side effects people had. We also wanted to know if opioid drugs improved their quality of life. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies up to 19 October 2015, and we included 26 studies with 526 people. These people had breathlessness from different types of lung disease. Some were given opioid drugs and some were given other drugs or a placebo, and studies compared the reporting of breathlessness to see if there was any difference. Some studies also looked at the amount of time people could exercise to see if there were any differences. Some people came from home, and some came from the hospital setting. 
Key findings 
There was some low quality evidence that showed a benefit of using oral or injectable opioid drugs for the treatment of the symptoms of breathlessness. There was no evidence for opioids by nebuliser. Some people experienced drowsiness, nausea, and vomiting. More research is needed using more people, and looking at effects on quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence using one of the following grades: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low quality evidence means we are uncertain about the results. High quality evidence means we are very certain about the results. For this Cochrane review, we found that the evidence was of low to very low quality. We included randomised controlled trials which were blinded, which means that participants and those people that assessed the results did not know whether the participants had received the opioid drug or a placebo. However, the trials were of small size, and some studies did not give enough information to allow us to assess whether they were of good quality. 
