Vigabatrin add‐on for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder affecting approximately 1 in 100 people. Around 30% of these people cannot control their epilepsy with currently available antiepileptic medication and are said to have drug‐resistant epilepsy. Most often, drug‐resistant epilepsy is focal in nature, meaning that the seizures start in one specific area of the brain. Vigabatrin is an antiepileptic medication that can be used as an add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant focal epilepsy, meaning that it is taken in addition to other antiepileptic medications. 
Main results 
We found 11 clinical trials, involving 756 people, which investigated vigabatrin as an add‐on for people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. The people in the trials were aged between 10 to 64 years and were given doses of 1 g/day to 6 g/day vigabatrin. 
We found that people given vigabatrin may be two to three times more likely to experience a 50% or greater reduction in seizure frequency than people given placebo (a non‐active treatment). We also suggest that people given vigabatrin may be up to three times more likely to stop treatment than people given placebo. People given vigabatrin were more likely to experience side effects: dizziness/light‐headedness, fatigue, drowsiness and depression, than people given placebo. However, the evidence suggested that they should not be more likely to experience: ataxia (disorders that affect co‐ordination, balance and speech), feeling sick (nausea), abnormal vision, headache, seeing double (diplopia), or involuntary movement of the eyes (nystagmus) than people given placebo. 
Reliability of the evidence 
We judged that all studies had significant risk of bias. The studies did not explain how people were allocated to treatment groups and did not say whether investigators knew which treatment people were receiving. Alongside other reasons, this reduced our confidence (certainty) in the results. Overall, we are uncertain to very uncertain whether the results we have reported are reliable. The true effect of vigabatrin could be significantly different to that reported here. 
