Parent‐only interventions for childhood overweight or obesity in children aged 5 to 11 years 
Review question 
How effective are diet, physical activity and behavioural interventions delivered to parents only in reducing the weight of overweight and obese children? 
Background 
Across the world more children are becoming overweight and obese. These children are more likely to suffer from health problems as children and in later life. Parents can play an important role in determining what their children eat. More information is needed about whether helping parents to make changes to their family's diet and lifestyle will treat this problem. 
Study characteristics 
We found 20 randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing diet, physical activity and behavioural (where habits are changed or improved) treatments (interventions) to a variety of control groups (who did not receive treatment) delivered to parents only of 3057 children aged 5 to 11 years. There were few similarities between the trials in the nature and types of interventions used. We grouped the trials by the type of comparisons. Our systematic review reported on the effects of the parent‐only interventions compared with parent and child interventions, waiting list controls (where the intervention was delayed until the end of the trial), other interventions with only minimal information or contact and other types of parent‐only interventions. The children in the included trials were monitored (called follow‐up) for between six months and two years. This evidence is up to date as of March 2015. 
Key results 
The most reported outcome was the body mass index (BMI). This is a measure of body fat and is calculated by dividing weight (in kilograms) by the square of the body height measured in metres (kg/m2). The studies measured BMI in ways that took account of gender, weight and height as the children grew older (such as the BMI z score and the BMI percentile). 
When compared with a waiting list control, there was limited evidence that parental interventions helped to reduce BMI. In looking at the longest follow‐up periods of the included trials, we did not find firm evidence of an advantage or disadvantage of parent‐only interventions when compared with either parent and child interventions, or when compared with limited information. Our review found very little information about how different types of parental interventions compared. No trial reported on death from any cause, illness or socioeconomic effects (such as whether parent‐only interventions are lower in costs compared with parent and child interventions). Two trials reported no serious side effects and the rest of the trials did not report whether side effects occurred or not. Information on parent‐child relationships and health‐related quality of life was rarely reported. 
