Benefits and risks of combining antibiotics and steroids as drops, sprays, ointments or creams to treat chronic suppurative otitis media (persistent or recurring ear infection with discharge) 
Why this is important 
Chronic suppurative otitis media (CSOM) is an inflammation and infection of the middle ear that lasts for two weeks or more. People with CSOM usually experience recurrent or persistent ear discharge – pus that leaks out from a hole in the eardrum – and hearing loss. 
CSOM is commonly treated with a combination of antibiotics (medicines that fight bacterial infections) and steroids (anti‐inflammation medicines) as a topical treatment (that is, in the form of drops, sprays, ointments or creams put directly into the ear). To find out how effective this combination is, and whether it causes unwanted effects, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. 
How we identified and assessed the evidence 
We searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature, compared the results and summarised the evidence from all the studies. We also assessed how certain the evidence was, considering factors such as study size and the way studies were conducted. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What we found 
We found 17 studies on over 1901 people with CSOM. People were followed for between 10 days and 20 weeks after treatment was completed. 
The studies covered a range of antibiotic plus steroid combinations, and compared them with either no treatment, a fake treatment (placebo), the same antibiotic without steroids or different antibiotics without steroids. Here we report findings from the three main comparisons: 
Topical antibiotics plus steroids compared against placebo (fake treatment) or no treatment (three studies, 210 people) 
We do not know whether antibiotics plus steroids are better or worse than placebo or no treatment for: 
‐ stopping ear discharge at three time points (one to two weeks; two to four weeks; or after four weeks); or 
‐ hearing; or
‐ causing unwanted effects (such as ear pain or serious complications).
This is because either no studies considered these outcomes or the evidence was of very low certainty. 
Topical antibiotics plus steroids compared against the same topical antibiotic used alone (four studies, 475 people) 
Topical antibiotics plus steroids may make little or no difference to stopping ear discharge after one to two weeks (low‐certainty evidence). 
We do not know whether antibiotics plus steroids are better or worse than the same topical antibiotic used alone for: 
‐ stopping ear discharge at three time points (one to two weeks; two to four weeks; or after four weeks); or 
‐ hearing; or
‐ causing unwanted effects (such as ear pain or serious complications).
This is because either no studies considered these outcomes or the evidence was of very low certainty. 
Topical antibiotics other than quinolones (a family of antibiotics) plus steroids compared to topical quinolone antibiotics used alone (nine studies, at least 981 people plus an additional 40 ears) 
