Non‐opioid drugs for managing pain in labour
Women's experience of pain during labour varies greatly. Some women feel little pain whilst others find the pain extremely distressing.  A woman’s position in labour, mobility, and levels of fear and anxiety or, conversely, confidence may influence her experience of pain. Several drug and non‐drug interventions are available for managing pain during labour. In this review we have assessed the evidence on the effectiveness and safety of non‐opioid drugs in the management of pain in labour. Non‐opioid drugs are used to control mild to moderate pain and include non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs, paracetamol, antispasmodics, sedatives and antihistamines. In the past, these drugs were used to help reduce women's anxiety and thus aid pain relief. Currently, they are not commonly used for pain relief in labour. However, they may still however be offered during the early stages of labour in some countries. 
A total of 19 studies (involving 2863 women) were identified which made three main comparisons: non‐opioid drugs versus placebo or no treatment; non‐opioid drugs versus opioids; and one type of non‐opioid drug versus a different type or dose of non‐opioid drug. 
There was little evidence on the effectiveness and safety of most non‐opioid drugs. However, evidence from single trials or at most two trials, suggests that some non‐opioid drugs may work in providing pain relief. Non‐opioid drugs were found to offer better pain relief (sedatives: one trial, 50 women), better satisfaction with pain relief (sedatives and antihistamines: two trials, 204 women; one trial, 223 women respectively) and better satisfaction with the childbirth experience (sedatives: one trial, 40 women) when compared with placebo. Women taking non‐opioid drugs (NSAIDs or antihistamines) were less likely to be satisfied with pain relief when compared with women receiving opioids (one trial, 76 women; one trial 223 women). Women having the antihistamine hydroxyzine were more satisfied with their pain relief than those taking the antihistamine promethazine (one trial, 289 women) and women having sedatives were more satisfied with their pain relief than those having antihistamines. There were little data and no evidence of a significant difference for any of the comparisons of non‐opioids for safety outcomes.  
The majority of studies were conducted over 30 years ago and the quality of all studies was questionable. No study used paracetamol. 
