How accurate is bedside ultrasound for the diagnosis of injuries to the abdomen or chest in patients with blunt injuries? 
Background and aims 
People who sustain a road traffic crash or fall from a height are at risk for blunt body trauma (i.e. non‐penetrating trauma) and multiple injuries. Medical professionals caring for these patients in hospital need to know if vital organs or vessels are damaged, and whether there is any major bleeding that requires immediate intervention. Point‐of‐care sonography (POCS), a form of ultrasound, is a non‐invasive, radiation‐free, portable imaging technique that can be used at the patient's bedside. It is frequently used to help diagnose injuries in the emergency department. We reviewed the best scientific evidence about the accuracy of POCS, that is its ability to identify or exclude injuries correctly, compared to other diagnostic tests. We considered computed tomography, laparotomy, and autopsy to be good comparative tests against which to measure the accuracy of POCS. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies from the year in which the first paper about using ultrasound to diagnose trauma patients was published until 15 July 2017. We considered 2296 records and included 34 relevant studies that involved 8635 participants in this review. All 34 studies were published between 1992 and 2017, with the number of participants in each study ranging from 51 to 3181. Ten studies included only children, two studies only adults, and the remaining 22 studies included both children and adults. 
Quality of the evidence 
In many studies, important information about the selection of participants and choice of the diagnostic tests against which to compare POCS was not reported. We therefore rated the methodological quality of the available evidence mostly as unclear. 
Key results 
Point‐of‐care sonography had a sensitivity (i.e. the ability to detect a person with the disease) of 74% and a specificity (i.e. the ability to exclude a person without the disease) of 96%. Sensitivity and specificity varied considerably across studies, which was due in part to variation in study, participant, and injury characteristics. In children, both the sensitivity and specificity of POCS were lower than in an adult or mixed population, meaning that POCS was less able to identify or rule out an injury. Based on our results, we would expect that amongst 1000 patients of a mixed‐age population with suspected blunt trauma to the abdomen or chest, POCS would miss 73 patients with injuries, and would falsely suggest the presence of injuries in 29 patients who were unaffected. This result emphasises the need for additional imaging in trauma patients for whom POCS shows no injuries (i.e. a negative result), to check whether they are really injury‐free. 
