Treatment for bleeding from enlarged veins in the oesophagus (food pipe) in people with advanced scarring of the liver 
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review?To find out the best available treatment for bleeding from oesophageal varices (enlarged veins in the oesophagus) in people with advanced scarring of the liver (liver cirrhosis, or late‐stage scarring of the liver with complications). Bleeding from oesophageal varices in people with cirrhosis is a life‐threatening event. Therefore, it is important to treat people when this happens, but the benefits and harms of different treatments available are currently unclear. The review authors collected and analysed all relevant randomised clinical trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two or more treatment groups) with the aim of finding out what the best treatment is. They found 52 randomised clinical trials. During analysis of data, the review authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow the comparison of only two treatments at a time. The authors also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature search17 December 2019 
What was studied in the review?This review looked at adults of any sex, age, and ethnic origin, with advanced liver disease due to various causes and bleeding oesophageal varices. Participants were given different treatments for bleeding oesophageal varices. The authors excluded studies in people who had bleeding from the stomach, failed treatment by another method before study entry, those in whom bleeding was controlled by another method before taking part in the study, and those who previously had liver transplantation. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 39 to 62 years. The treatments used in the trials included endoscopic sclerotherapy (injecting a scar‐forming liquid into the enlarged veins (the scarring blocks the veins thereby shrinking the veins) by looking through a tube inserted through the mouth), variceal band ligation (inserting bands around the dilated veins by seeing through a tube inserted through the mouth), somatostatin analogues (drugs that resemble gut hormones and narrow blood vessels), vasopressin analogues (drugs that resemble brain hormones and narrow blood vessels), and balloon tamponade (inserting a tube through the nose or mouth and inflating a balloon around the tube with the hope of pressing on the bleeding veins). The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death (percentage of participants who died within six weeks of receiving treatment), quality of life, serious adverse events and non‐serious adverse events (i.e. serious and non‐serious complications), recurrence of bleeding, and development of other complications of advanced liver disease. 
What were the main results of the review?The 52 trials included a small number of participants (4580 participants). Forty‐eight trials with 4042 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of the trial participants ranged from less than one week to six weeks. The funding source for the research was unclear in 31 studies; commercial organisations funded 11 studies. There were no concerns regarding the source of funding for the remaining 10 studies. The review shows the following. 
