Extended versus standard lymph node dissection in patients with bladder cancer undergoing total bladder removal 
Review question 
When removing the whole bladder for bladder cancer, how does removing the lymph nodes from a large area (extended lymph node dissection) compare to only from a smaller area (standard lymph node dissection)? 
Background 
People with advanced cancer of the bladder that has spread into the deep muscle layers (but not outside the bladder) often have an operation to remove the whole bladder. As part of this operation, surgeons remove lymph nodes in that part of the body, which is an important part of the immune system. Traditionally, only the lymph nodes close to the bladder and its major blood vessels were removed. This is called a standard lymph node dissection which removes lymph nodes as high up as to where the main blood vessels for the pelvis and the leg split up. Some people think that also removing lymph nodes further away from the bladder is better in getting rid of cancer. This is called an extended lymph node dissection. It removes lymph nodes as high up as the blood vessels that supply the lower part of the intestines. We don't know whether this indeed helps people live longer and not die from bladder cancer and how the unwanted effects compare. 
Study characteristics 
We included only studies in which chance determined whether people got a standard or extended lymph node dissection that was reported in literature up to April 29, 2019. 
Key results 
We found only one such study that answered our review question. This study was done at 16 large hospitals in Germany and included 401 men and women with bladder cancer. 
We found that having an extended node dissection may make people less likely to die for any reason or to die from bladder cancer over time, although our confidence in this result is limited. 
We are uncertain whether an extended node dissection causes more serious unwanted effects than a standard lymph node dissection. 
We are also uncertain whether an extended node dissection makes cancer less likely to come back over time and causes a similar risk of not‐so‐serious unwanted effects compared to a standard lymph node dissection. 
