Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus other medicines or herbs for chronic hepatitis B 
Review question 
To assess the benefits and harms of Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus other medicines or herbs in people with chronic hepatitis B. 
Background 
Chronic hepatitis B virus (HBV) infection is a common liver disease, associated with high morbidity (illness) and death. It causes psychological stress and is a burden to people with chronic hepatitis B and their families. Radix Sophorae flavescentis is for treating people with chronic hepatitis B as it is believed that it decreases discomfort and prevents the replication of the virus in people with chronic hepatitis B. However, the benefits and harms are still unclear. 
Search date 
We searched scientific databases in December 2018.
Study characteristics 
We included 10 randomised clinical trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 898 participants. All the trials were at high risk of bias. The trials covered oral capsules, intravenous (into a vein) infusion, intramuscular (into a muscle) injection, and acupoint (a specifically chosen site of acupuncture) injection of Radix Sophorae flavescentis with treatment duration from 1 month to 12 months. Radix Sophorae flavescentis was compared with lamivudine, adefovir, interferon, tiopronin, thymosin, and other Chinese herbs. Two trials included children up to 14 years old. Participants in one trial had cirrhosis (late stage of scarring of the liver) in chronic hepatitis B. 
Study funding sources 
Two of the 10 trials were not funded, and one received governmental funding. The remaining seven trials provided no information on funding. Undisclosed funding may have influence on trial results and lead to poor design of the trial. 
Key results 
None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life (a measure of a person's satisfaction with their life and health), or followed people who have died from any reason or died from hepatitis B, or who were at risk of dying because of hepatitis B. Side effects considered 'not to be serious' was an outcome in two trials. We could not say if Radix Sophorae flavescentis versus other medicines or herbs was better or worse regarding the occurrence of side effects considered 'not to be serious'. We were uncertain whether Radix Sophorae flavescentis had a positive, neutral, or negative effect on the proportion of participants with detectable HBV‐DNA (the genetic blueprint of the virus). Radix Sophorae flavescentis may have reduced the proportion of participants with detectable hepatitis B virus e‐antigen (HBeAg; produced by the immune system). However, caution is needed with these findings as the trials providing data on them were small, at high risk of bias, and these outcomes have not yet been proven relevant to people with HBV infection. We identified 109 trials that not be included because of lack of information required for the conduct of this review. Accordingly, more information from properly designed randomised clinical trials is needed before one can determine the benefits or harms of Radix Sophorae flavescentis for people with chronic hepatitis B. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Certainty of evidence means 'the extent of one's confidence that review results are correct in supporting or rejecting a finding.' The certainty of the evidence on the use of Radix Sophorae flavescentis in people with chronic HBV in terms of its beneficial or harmful effects on death, health‐related quality of life, risk of dying due to HBV infection, and serious side effects cannot be determined as none of the trials reported patient‐relevant outcomes. Our certainty in the evidence that Radix Sophorae flavescentis, when compared with other medicines or herbs, would decrease or increase side effects considered 'not to be serious' and number of people with detectable HBV‐DNA is very low. Our certainty in the evidence that Radix Sophorae flavescentis decreases the number of people with detectable HBeAg is also very low. These assessments of certainty of evidence are due to the poor design and reporting of the included trials. 
