Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin‐norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) for preventing migraine 
Migraine is a common condition that can significantly impair people's quality of life. Individuals who experience frequent or severe migraine may benefit from preventive medications taken prior to an attack and before the pain starts. Studies have suggested the potential role of neurotransmitters in the genesis of headache. Accordingly, drugs that inhibit the passage of neurotransmitters in brain cells and, therefore, increase their levels, have been examined for their potential benefit in preventing migraine. Two classes of inhibitors, the selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and serotonin‐norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs), typically used to treat depression, are evaluated in this review. 
This is an update of a previous review that included studies on migraine and tension‐type headache. This original review has been split in two separate reviews: this update addresses only studies on migraine, while a second focuses on tension‐type headache. In November 2014, we identified three new studies. Eight studies were already included in the previous version of the review. Overall, we analysed a total of 585 participants. All the studies had a small number of participants and were conducted over a period of two to three months. Only a few were of high quality. 
The results suggest that SSRIs and SNRIs are no better than placebo (sugar pill) for reducing the number of migraine attacks. There were no differences in minor side effects between participants treated with SSRIs or SNRIs versus those treated with placebo. SSRIs and SNRIs seem not to offer advantages when compared to other active treatments, specifically the tricyclic antidepressant amitriptyline. The participants treated with SSRIs or SNRIs suffered fewer minor side effects than those who took amitriptyline, however the number of people who stopped taking one drug or the other due to side effects was approximately equal. These results are based on short‐term trials (no more than three months), which are not properly sized and feature serious methodological deficiencies. We did not find studies comparing SSRIs or SNRIs with pharmacological treatments other than antidepressants (e.g. antiepileptics and anti‐hypertensives). 
