Probiotics for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the use of probiotics in people with cystic fibrosis.
Background 
Cystic fibrosis leads to thick mucus which affects the lungs, gut and other organs. People with cystic fibrosis often have altered gut bacteria and inflammation. Gut inflammation may be linked to growth, with worse inflammation linked to worse growth measures. This is relevant as optimal nutrition and growth is important for lung function and survival in CF. 
Probiotics are live bacteria which will provide a health benefit to the individual. Probiotics are available over‐the‐counter, commonly used by people with cystic fibrosis and may improve gut inflammation and overall health. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 20 January 2020.
Study characteristics 
The review included 12 randomised controlled trials (11 completed and one trial protocol (plan) ‐ this trial was terminated early but reported some results on side effects) with 464 people with cystic fibrosis. Eight trials included only children, whilst four trials included both children and adults. The trials lasted between one and 12 months. Eight trials used a probiotic with a single type of bacteria and four trials used a probiotic with two or more types of bacteria. Only one trial compared different bacteria and the others compared probiotics to a placebo (dummy treatment with no active medication). 
Key results 
Probiotics may reduce the rate of pulmonary exacerbations, however, this is not definite; pulmonary exacerbations are events where breathing symptoms are worsened (e.g. increased cough, sputum or shortness of breath) and lung function declines. Probiotics may reduce a marker of gut inflammation called calprotectin, however, the benefit of this to an individual is unknown. There were no differences between probiotics and placebo for height, weight or body mass index (BMI). Results did not show that probiotics affect lung function, need for admission to hospital or abdominal symptoms. One small trial measured quality of life and the parents questionnaire favoured probiotics, but the children's self report did not show a difference between probiotics and placebo. Probiotics may cause vomiting, diarrhoea and allergic reactions. We estimate 52 people need to take probiotics for one person to have an adverse event. 
We could not analyse the results of the trial comparing different probiotics because of its design. 
Future trials should look into the use of probiotics for at least 12 months and assess measures of lung and gut health, growth, abdominal symptoms, quality of life and adverse events. Given the wide range or probiotics (single and multi‐strain combinations), doses used and degree of effectiveness, determining the best regimen(s) to investigate further will be challenging. 
Certainty of the evidence 
There were several issues with the overall certainty of the evidence which affects our confidence in the results from these trials. We think the fact that some participants did not complete their treatment or were not included in the reports may affect the results on weight. We think the fact that not all planned outcomes were reported in four trials may affect the results of intestinal inflammation, growth and abdominal symptoms. We think the fact that the pharmaceutical industry sponsored at least four of the trials should be considered when looking at the results of this review. As most trials only included children we are not certain that the results would also apply to adults and there were also some issues related to whether people taking part in the trial knew which treatment they were receiving. 
