Oral water soluble contrast for cancer‐related bowel obstruction
Background 
Intra‐abdominal cancer is where the cancer has either started elsewhere in the body and spread into the stomach area or started in the bowel itself. It can commonly grow and block the movement of food or faeces through the bowel. A blockage of the bowel caused by cancer is known as malignant bowel obstruction (MBO). Some patients with MBO benefit from surgery to reverse the blockage. In others it is not possible to reverse the MBO and it either resolves or becomes permanent (limiting prognosis to days or weeks). 
Scar tissue around the bowel (called adhesions) can also cause a blockage, this is known as adhesive small bowel obstruction. Adhesive obstructions often resolve with conservative management in hospital (allowing the bowel to "rest" and recover). However in some, the obstruction requires surgery to remove the scar tissue and fix the blockage. 
Oral water soluble contrast (OWSC) is often prepared in liquid form and when swallowed before an x‐ray or computed tomography (CT) scan will show up clearly in the bowel. It can predict which people with adhesive small bowel obstruction will require surgery. In some patients it may also speed recovery leading to reduced hospital stay. 
It is not clear whether the benefits of OWSC in adhesive small bowel obstruction are also seen in MBO. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for evidence that OWSC could be used to identify which patients with inoperable MBO would recover with conservative management. We also wanted to know if OWSC increased the likelihood of recovery from MBO, reduced hospital stay or improved prognosis. Finally, we wished to know what side effects OWSC might cause for patients with MBO. We conducted the search in June 2017 and found one study. It only recruited nine participants and did not fully report on the outcomes of using OWSC in MBO. 
Key Findings 
We found insufficient evidence that OWSC can identify which patients with MBO will recover with conservative management. We found insufficient evidence that patients with MBO benefit from OWSC in terms of length of hospital stay, recovery time or survival. No conclusions could be made about side effects from OWSC. 
Quality of Evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low‐quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High‐quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. We rated the quality of the evidence as very low due to the lack of studies reporting on the benefits of using OWSC in MBO and the only study we found reporting on side effects recruited very few participants (nine). The low quality of the evidence means that we are very uncertain about the use of OWSC in the management of MBO and cannot confirm its benefits or harms in patients with this condition. 
