Interventions to reduce neuromuscular complications acquired during the acute phase of critical illness 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of treatments to prevent or reduce complications affecting the nerves or muscles during the severe, early phase of critical illness. These complications are called critical illness polyneuropathy or myopathy (CIP/CIM) and can affect nerves, muscles or both. 
Background 
CIP/CIM is a frequent complication of critical care. CIP/CIM causes weakness of limbs and of muscles used for breathing. These difficulties can make it difficult for the person to come off a ventilator and start rehabilitation. CIP/CIM can also mean a longer stay in the intensive care unit (ICU) and increases the risk of death. Recovery takes weeks or months and in severe cases it may be incomplete or absent. Prevention and treatment of CIP/CIM is therefore very important. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that looked at the effects of any treatment to prevent CIP/CIM in adults admitted to an ICU. We identified and analysed five trials that were suitable for inclusion in our review. These trials studied four treatments: intensive insulin therapy (IIT), corticosteroid therapy, early rehabilitation, and electrical muscle stimulation. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Two trials, with a total of 825 adults staying in ICU for one week or more, studied the effect of IIT versus conventional insulin therapy (CIT) on the incidence of CIP/CIM. IIT aimed to produce normal blood sugar levels (80 to 110 mg/dL) and CIT aimed to avoid high blood sugar (blood sugar over 215 mg/dL). Combining the results of both trials showed moderate quality evidence that IIT reduces CIP/CIM. There was high quality evidence that it reduced time spent on a ventilator, ICU stay and 180‐day mortality but not 30‐day mortality. There were more episodes of low blood sugar with IIT. Although there was not an increase in deaths within 24 hours of episodes of low blood sugar, low blood sugar remains a concern as it can damage the brain. Neither trial reported the degree of limb weakness or on physical rehabilitation. The results came from a subgroup of people who were in the ICU for a long time, which may also limit the conclusions. 
The third trial compared corticosteroid therapy with a placebo in 180 people with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). Moderate quality evidence suggested no effect of corticosteroids on CIP/CIM (in 92 participants evaluated). High quality evidence showed no effect on 180‐day mortality, new serious infections, blood glucose levels on day seven or episodes of suspected or probable pneumonia. There were fewer episodes of shock (a life‐threatening condition where there is a lack of blood flow to vital organs). 
The fourth trial was of on early rehabilitation in 104 participants in a medical ICU. There was moderate quality evidence of a reduction in CIP/CIM in the 82 participants who could be evaluated in the ICU. This effect was not significant when imputation to intention‐to‐treat analysis was performed. Early rehabilitation reduced the duration of mechanical ventilation but did not affect ICU stay or deaths. The trial reported no serious adverse events. 
