Communicating to pregnant woman and parents through their mobile devices to improve maternal, neonatal, and child health 
Aim of this review 
We assessed the effect of sending targeted messages by mobile devices to pregnant women and parents of young children about health and healthcare services. 
Key messages 
There are gaps in the evidence regarding the effects of targeted messages by mobile devices to pregnant women and parents of young children about health and healthcare services. Some of these messages may improve some people's health and their use of health services, but others may make little or no difference. The existing evidence is mostly of low or very low certainty. 
What was studied in the review? 
Targeted client communication (TCC) is an intervention in which the health system sends information to particular people, based on their health status or other factors specific to that population group. Common types of TCC are text messages reminding people to attend appointments or that offer healthcare information and support. Our review assessed whether TCC can change pregnant women's and parents' behaviour, health service use, health, and well‐being. 
What happens when pregnant women receive targeted messages by mobile device? 
Compared to women who get no messages 
Women may breastfeed more in settings where exclusive breastfeeding is not common. They may also go to more antenatal care appointments. They may use skilled birth attendants more where this is less common. We do not know if the messages affect women's or babies' health because the certainty of the evidence is very low. 
Compared to women who get messages sent in other ways 
Women and newborns may have fewer health problems during the first 10 days after birth. The messages may make little or no difference to the number of women who breastfeed. We do not know if they make women use more health services. 
Compared to women who get untargeted messages 
The messages may make little or no difference to whether women get influenza vaccines during pregnancy. We do not know if the messages affect women's or babies' health or lead women to use skilled birth attendants more because the evidence is lacking or of very low certainty. 
What happens when pregnant women living with HIV receive targeted messages by mobile device? 
Compared to women who get no messages 
Women may go to slightly more antenatal care appointments. We do not know whether the messages lead more women to give birth in a health facility or improve babies' health because the evidence is of very low certainty. The messages may make little or no difference to whether pregnant women and babies follow antiretroviral (ARV) treatment (used to treat HIV) according to plan. We do not know if the messages affect women's health because the evidence is missing. 
Compared to women who get messages sent in other ways 
We do not know what the effect of these messages is because we lack evidence.
Compared to women who get untargeted messages 
More parents may follow their babies' ARV treatment according to plan. We do not know if the messages improve women's or babies' health or their use of services because the evidence is missing. 
What happens when parents of young children receive targeted messages by mobile device? 
Compared to parents who get no messages 
More parents may take their children to healthcare services such as vaccination appointments. But we do not know if the messages improve children's health or their health behaviour because the evidence is missing. 
Compared to parents who get messages sent in other ways 
Slightly more parents may take their children to vaccination appointments. The messages may make little or no difference to children's toothbrushing habits. We do not know if the messages affect children's health because the evidence is missing. 
Compared to parents who get untargeted messages 
Fewer parents may take their children to vaccination appointments, but this evidence is mixed. We do not know if the messages affect children's health due to lack of evidence. 
