Beginning reading interventions for children and adolescents with intellectual disability
What was the aim of the review? 
Children and adolescents with an intellectual disability have below average cognitive abilities and everyday skills. In the past, no‐one expected them to learn to read, but that has now changed. This review aimed to find out if specialized reading instruction (for example, small group instruction on letter‐sound awareness) could help children and adolescents who have an intellectual disability learn to read. 
What did the review study? 
We examined beginning reading interventions (methods) provided in schools to children and adolescents with intellectual disabilities. We examined the effects of the intervention on beginning reading skills, including phonologic awareness (blending sounds into words), reading words, decoding (correctly pronouncing written words), and language skills such as vocabulary. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We located seven studies that examined beginning reading interventions for children and adolescents with intellectual disability. Four studies were conducted in the USA, one in Canada, and two in the UK. These studies compared beginning reading interventions to standard reading instruction. The studies included 352 children and adolescents with intellectual disabilities. All studies provided the intervention in school settings. The findings of the review suggest that beginning reading interventions probably improve phonologic awareness, word reading, and language skills (moderate‐quality evidence) and may improve decoding skills and oral reading fluency (low‐quality evidence). Three studies were funded by grants from the US Department of Education, Institute of Education Sciences; one study by the Canadian Language and Literacy Research Network and the Nova Scotia Health Research Foundation; and three studies did not indicate a funding source. 
Key messages 
The results of this review show that beginning reading interventions are moderately effective for improving phonologic awareness, word reading, decoding skills, oral reading fluency, and language skills in children and adolescents with intellectual disability. The quality of the evidence was low and moderate across the five outcomes we analyzed. No study reported side effects of treatment. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We included studies published up to October 2019.
