Stopping or continuing long‐term antipsychotic drug use for behavioural and psychological symptoms in older people with dementia 
Review question 
We investigated the effects of stopping antipsychotic drugs in older people with dementia who had been taking them for three months or longer. 
Background 
People with dementia may have symptoms and behavioural problems that can be distressing and difficult for carers to manage. Such symptoms (often described as neuropsychiatric symptoms, or NPS) include anxiety, apathy, depression, psychosis (hallucinations and delusions), wandering, repeating words or sounds, shouting, and behaving in agitated or aggressive ways, or both. 
Antipsychotic drugs are often prescribed with the aim of controlling these symptoms and behaviours, although most current guidance suggests these drugs should only be used for short periods of time for the most challenging behaviours. This is largely because these drugs are thought to have risks of side effects (including some that are serious), and because many behavioural problems improve without treatment. However, many people with dementia continue to take antipsychotic drugs over long periods of time. 
This review investigated whether it is feasible for older people with dementia and NPS to stop antipsychotic drugs which they have been taking for at least three months. This is an update of a Cochrane Review published in 2013. 
Methods 
We searched up to 11 January 2018 for any study that randomly allocated some people with dementia who were taking antipsychotic drugs to continue this treatment and others to stop taking antipsychotic drugs. Study participants were followed up over a period of time to see what happened. 
Results 
We included 10 studies with a total of 632 participants in our review. We added one new study with 19 participants for this update. Most participants lived in nursing homes. The studies varied considerably with regard to the people they included, the methods they used and the outcomes they measured. 
Because the studies were so diverse, it was not possible to combine all the data numerically. We found low‐quality evidence that older people with dementia may be able to stop long‐term antipsychotics without their behavioural problems getting worse. However, in some people who had psychosis, agitation or aggression and who had improved significantly when they first started antipsychotic treatment, we found that stopping the drugs may increase the risk of the behavioural problems getting worse again. On the other hand, agitation decreased after stopping the drugs in some participants whose NPS at the beginning of the studies was relatively mild. 
We did not find enough evidence to know whether stopping antipsychotics has beneficial effects on quality of life, thinking and remembering, or the ability to carry out daily tasks, nor if the risk of harmful events ‐ such as falls ‐ is reduced. We are uncertain whether stopping antipsychotics leads to people living longer. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, evidence was low‐ or very low‐quality. This means we have limited or little confidence in the results, and that it is possible that other similar research could find something different. The main reasons for this assessment were that there were few studies that included few people, and a risk that results were not fully reported. All included studies had problems recruiting enough participants, making it more difficult for them to detect effects of stopping antipsychotics. 
