Do mattresses and mattress toppers made of foam prevent pressure ulcers?
Key messages 
Mattresses and mattress toppers made of foam:
‐ may increase the risk of developing pressure ulcers when compared with air‐filled surfaces; 
‐ are probably less cost‐effective than air‐filled surfaces that regularly redistribute pressure under the body. 
It is unclear if foam has an effect on pressure ulcers compared with surfaces made of fibre, gel or water cells. 
Future studies should focus on options and effects that are important to decision‐makers, such as: 
‐ gel surfaces that apply constant skin pressure, compared with foam surfaces; and
‐ whether and when pressure ulcers develop, unwanted effects and costs.
What are pressure ulcers? 
Pressure ulcers are also known as pressure sores or bed sores. They are wounds to the skin and underlying tissue caused by prolonged pressure or rubbing. They often occur on bony parts of the body, such as heels, elbows, hips and the bottom of the spine. People who have mobility problems or who lie in bed for long periods are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
What did we want to find out? 
There are beds, mattresses and mattress toppers specifically designed for people at risk of pressure ulcers. These can be made of a range of materials (such as foam, fibre, air cells or water bags) and are divided into two groups: 
‐ reactive (static) surfaces that apply a constant pressure to the skin, unless a person moves or is repositioned; and 
‐ active (alternating pressure) surfaces that regularly redistribute the pressure under the body. 
We wanted to find out if mattresses and mattress toppers made of foam (a reactive surface): 
‐ prevent pressure ulcers;
‐ are comfortable and improve people’s quality of life;
‐ have health benefits that outweigh their costs (cost‐effectiveness); and
‐ have any unwanted effects.
What did we do? 
We searched the medical literature for studies that evaluated the effects of mattresses and mattress toppers made of foam. We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 29 studies (9566 people, average age: 76 years) that lasted between five days and one year (average: 15 days). The studies compared foam with active and reactive surfaces made of gel, air cells, water bags and other foam types. 
Pressure ulcer prevention 
The evidence suggests that:
‐ foam surfaces may increase the risk of developing pressure ulcers when compared with active or reactive air‐filled surfaces (8 studies); 
‐ denser memory foam (foam that adapts to a person’s body shape) may be better than lighter memory foam for preventing pressure ulcers if the data on the time it takes to develop a new ulcer is looked at (1 study, duration: 11.5 days); 
‐ flat foam surfaces may be better than ridged foam surfaces for preventing pressure ulcers if the data on the time it takes to develop a new ulcer is looked at (1 study, duration: 1 month). 
It is unclear if foam has an effect on pressure ulcers compared to water or gel surfaces.
Other effects 
Evidence from one study suggests that foam is probably less cost‐effective than active, air‐filled surfaces. 
We did not find sufficiently robust and clear evidence to determine how foam affects comfort, quality of life and unwanted effects. 
