Do interventions in families prevent children and adolescents from starting to smoke
Review question: This review asks whether family interventions can influence children and adolescents not to smoke, compared to no‐intervention controls or as an add‐on to a school intervention. We particularly focused on children who had never smoked. 
Background: Preventing children from starting to smoke is important to avoid a lifetime of addiction, poor health, and social and economic consequences. Family members influence whether children and adolescents smoke. We wanted to know if there is enough evidence to justify funding interventions in families to prevent children starting smoking. 
Last search: April 2014. 
Study Characteristics: We identified 27 trials; 23 in the USA and one each in Australia, India, the Netherlands, and Norway. The focus varied amongst the studies. Fifteen trials focused on substance use prevention: six focused only on tobacco prevention; one focused on alcohol; one on general substance abuse; three on tobacco, alcohol and marijuana; two on alcohol and tobacco; and two on tobacco and cardiovascular health. Two trials focused on HIV and unsafe sex prevention. Ten trials focused on family functioning, child development and modifying adolescent behaviour. Duration of follow‐up after the intervention was very varied, ranging from 6 months to over 15 years for the studies which intervened with mothers of very young children. 
Key Results: Nine trials provided data to compare a family tobacco intervention to no intervention on future smoking behaviour for those who did not smoke at the start of the study. We could not include data from a further eight trials. The results showed a significant benefit of family‐based interventions over the control comparison on preventing experimentation with or taking up regular smoking. Our estimate suggested that family interventions could reduce the number of adolescents who tried smoking at all by between 16 and 32%. 
Two trials provided data to compare a combined family plus school intervention to a school intervention and also favoured the family‐based intervention. The estimate suggested that the addition of a family intervention might reduce the onset of smoking by between 4 and 25%. We could not include data from a further five trials. 
