Abatacept for rheumatoid arthritis
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of abatacept on rheumatoid arthritis. Although expensive, if supported by the overall body of evidence, the claims of their benefit upon both symptoms and radiographic progression, and their low rate of short term side effects make them of great interest to patients with RA. 
The review shows that in people with rheumatoid arthritis: 
‐ Abatacept probably reduces joint damage as seen on the x‐ray.  ‐ Abatacept probably improves pain, function and other symptoms of rheumatoid arthritis.   ‐ Abatacept probably reduces disease activity. 
We do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects.  Possible side effects may include a serious infection or upper respiratory infection.  Rare complications may include certain types of cancer.  
What is rheumatoid arthritis and what is abatacept?  When you have rheumatoid arthritis, your immune system, which normally fights infection, attacks the lining of your joints. This makes your joints swollen, stiff and painful. The small joints of your hands and feet are usually affected first. There is no cure for rheumatoid arthritis at present, so the treatments aim to relieve pain and stiffness and improve your ability to move.  
Abatacept is one of a group of medications called selective costimulation modulators (immunomodulators). It works by blocking the activity of T‐cells, a type of immune cell in the body that causes swelling and joint damage in people who have rheumatoid arthritis. 
Best estimate of what happens to people with rheumatoid arthritis who take abatacept: 
X‐rays of the joints 
‐There was no damage to joints of people who took abatacept after 12 months.  ‐The damage to joints of people who took a placebo was 0.27 units on a scale of 0 to 145 units. 
Pain (higher scores mean worse or more severe pain) 
‐ People who took abatacept rated their pain to be 12 points lower on a scale of 0 to 100 after 12 months with abatacept (12% absolute improvement). 
‐People who took abatacept rated their pain to be 37 on a scale of 0 to 100 after 12 months.  ‐People who took a placebo rated their pain to be 49 on a scale of 0 to 100.  
ACR 50 (number of tender or swollen joints and other outcomes such as pain and disability) 
‐20 more people out of 100 experienced improvement in the symptoms of their rheumatoid arthritis after 12 months with abatacept (20% absolute improvement). 
‐37 people out of 100 experienced improvement in the symptoms of their rheumatoid arthritis.  ‐17 people out of 100 who took a placebo experienced improvement.    
