Patient‐initiated appointments for people with chronic conditions managed in hospital outpatient settings 
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to establish if patient‐initiated appointments (appointments requested by the patient) for people with chronic and recurrent conditions is a better way of managing care in hospital outpatient settings than standard appointments scheduled by the consultant. Researchers found 17 studies to analyse. 
Key messages 
Overall, this review provides mainly low‐quality evidence that patient‐initiated appointment systems may have little or no impact on patient anxiety, depression, quality of life, adverse events and satisfaction. This system may also have little or no impact on the contact that patients have with services but impact on the costs of the service are unclear. There is some variability in the way patients experience care. 
What is studied in the review? 
Follow‐up appointments scheduled by a hospital consultant is currently used for people with chronic conditions such as (but not limited to) rheumatoid arthritis, inflammatory bowel disease and cancer. This system often results in missed appointments, patients unable to access care when they need it, and a backlog of patients waiting to be diagnosed or treated for the first time. Allowing patients to access healthcare advice and appointments when they need it (patient‐initiated appointments) could help alleviate these problems and free‐up appointments. The patient‐initiated system of care may also lead to greater satisfaction for patients with a more convenient service, and may reduce costs for patients and service providers. This review compares patient‐initiated appointment systems that allow the patient to telephone a specialist nurse on a helpline, where they can discuss their query first, and have an appointment with the consultant booked as necessary, to consultant‐led appointment systems. We want to know if these systems are safe for patients to use, if patients and clinicians find them appropriate and satisfactory to use, how they may impact patients physical and mental health, and how they may impact on health service resources and costs. 
