Effectiveness and safety of inhalers containing the drug aclidinium bromide for managing patients with stable COPD 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effectiveness and safety of aclidinium inhalers used by people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Background 
COPD, also known as 'smoker's lung disease', includes conditions called emphysema and chronic bronchitis where there is airway narrowing that cannot be fully corrected. It is a progressive disease. COPD patients usually have breathing problems and a cough that produces a lot of phlegm. It is diagnosed by international guidelines set by the Global Initiative for Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD). Symptoms may worsen during flare‐ups. The main aims of treating COPD patients are to relieve symptoms, reduce flare‐ups and improve quality of life. Aclidinium is a new inhaled drug that widens the airways (a bronchodilator). It is delivered by an inhaler called Genuair or Pressair. We wanted to discover whether aclidinium was better or worse than using other inhalers or a dummy inhaler. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence was current to 7 April 2014. We included 12 studies involving 9547 COPD patients over a period of four to 52 weeks. These studies were sponsored by drug companies and were well designed. Both patients and the people doing the research did not know which treatment the patients were getting; although in one study one treatment was known to both parties. More men than women took part, and they were mostly Caucasians. They were in their 60s and had smoked a lot in their lives. These people had moderate to severe symptoms when they started treatment. 
Key results 
Aclidinium did not reduce the number of people with flare‐ups that need additional drugs. There was little or no difference in deaths or serious side effects between aclidinium and a dummy inhaler. Aclidinium inhalers improved quality of life more than the dummy inhalers. 
People who took aclidinium had fewer hospital admissions due to serious flare‐ups. Based on our results, among 1000 COPD patients using a dummy inhaler over four weeks to one year 37 would have severe flare‐ups needing hospital admission. Only 17 to 33 patients out of 1000 would require hospital admission if they were using aclidinium inhalers. We also set out to compare this new medication with tiotropium, which is already used to treat COPD. There were only two studies for this comparison thus we could not be sure how aclidinium compared to tiotropium. We also could not compare aclidinium with another well known inhaler that contains the drug formoterol because of unreliable data. 
Quality of the evidence 
For the comparison of aclidinium inhalers and dummy inhalers, we are confident that there are benefits in terms of the number of hospitalisations and patients' quality of life; we are less certain about the numbers of flare‐ups needing additional drugs and serious side effects. We do not have enough information to assess any effect on the number of deaths. We did not have enough information to reliably compare aclidinium with tiotropium or formoterol. 
