Music therapy for autistic people
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of music therapy for autistic people. We compared results from people receiving music therapy (or music therapy added to standard care) with results from people receiving a similar therapy without music ('placebo' therapy), standard care or no therapy at all. 
Background 
Autism is a lifelong neurodevelopmental condition that affects how people perceive the world around them, and how they communicate with and relate to others. Thus, social interaction and social communication are among the central areas of difficulty for autistic people. Music therapy uses music experiences and the relationships that develop through them to enable people to relate to others, to communicate, and to share their feelings. In this way, music therapy addresses some of the core problems of autistic people. Music therapy has been applied in autism since the early 1950s. Its availability to autistic people varies across countries and settings. The application of music therapy requires specialised academic and clinical training. This helps therapists in tailoring the intervention to the specific needs of the person. We wanted to investigate whether music therapy helps autistic people compared with other options. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to August 2021.
Study characteristics 
We included 16 new studies in this update, so the evidence in this review now rests on 26 studies with a total number of 1165 participants. The studies examined the short‐ and medium‐term effect of music therapy interventions (three days to eight months) for autistic children, youth, and young adults in one‐to‐one or group settings. None of the studies reported funding by an agency with a commercial interest in the result of the studies; reported sources of support included governmental, university and foundation funding; in three studies, support was provided by a music therapy association. 
Key results 
Music therapy compared with 'placebo' therapy or standard care probably increases the chance of overall improvement by the end of therapy, likely improves quality of life and total autism symptom severity immediately after therapy, and probably does not increase adverse events. From the available evidence, we cannot tell whether music therapy has any effects on social interaction, and verbal and non‐verbal communication at the end of therapy. 
