What are the benefits and risks of different surgical procedures for infantile nystagmus syndrome (an eye disorder that develops shortly after birth)? 
Why is this question important?Infantile nystagmus syndrome (INS) is an eye disorder that causes involuntary movement of the eyes from side to side, up and down, or in circles. INS typically develops shortly after birth, and persists throughout life. It is often associated with visual problems, such as:‐ long‐sightedness (when people can see distant objects clearly, but near objects appear blurred);‐ or short‐sightedness (when people can see near objects clearly, but distant objects appear blurred). 
There is currently no cure for INS. However, it is possible to reduce eye movement and improve people’s vision. One of the main options is eye surgery, which involves operating on the muscles that control eye movement. Several different surgical procedures can be used: some procedures involve detaching and reattaching the eye muscles, whereas others require complete removal of these muscles.   
It is unclear whether some surgical procedures for INS have more benefits or risks than others. To find out which surgical procedures work best, we reviewed the evidence from research studies. We were particularly interested in whether different surgical procedures could improve vision and quality of life in people with INS. We also wanted to know about any adverse (unwanted) effects. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?First, we searched for randomised controlled studies, in which people were randomly divided into two or more treatment groups. This makes it less likely that any differences between treatment effects were actually due to differences in the people who received them (rather than due to the treatments themselves, which is what we wanted to find out). 
We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
What did we find?We found one study, set in India, that involved a total of 10 people with INS who were followed for six months after surgery. The study authors did not report any information about: ‐ the age and gender of the people who took part in it;‐ or the source of funding for the study. 
The study compared two different surgical procedures: ‐ one procedure in which two horizontal rectus muscles (eye muscles that control side‐to‐side eye movements) were moved from their original position to a position further back on the eyeball; and‐ another procedure in which four horizontal rectus muscles were detached and reattached, in their original position.The procedures were conducted in both eyes. 
The study compared the effects of the treatments on:‐ clarity of vision six months after surgery;‐ intensity of eye movement six months after surgery;‐ adverse events six months after surgery; and‐ quality of life.   
