Treatments for simple bone cysts in the long bones of children
Simple bone cysts ('unicameral' or 'solitary' bone cysts) are the most common type of non‐cancerous (benign) bone abnormality (lesion) in growing children. Cysts make the bone cortex (hard outer layer of bone) thin and may lead to repeated pathological fracture (one that occurs without much trauma in an area of weakened bone). Occasionally, such fractures can result in limb shortening and deformity. The main goals when treating simple bone cysts are to decrease the risk of pathological fracture, assist cyst healing and stop pain. There are several treatment methods available but there is no agreement about which is best. Therefore, we made a thorough review of the available evidence for different methods of treating simple bone cysts in the long bones of children to see if we could identify which method is best. This is an updated version of the original review published in 2014. 
We searched several important medical databases in April 2016, as well as trial registers, conference proceedings and reference lists. We found only one relevant medical study in which the children participating were allocated randomly to different treatments. The study compared treatments in which the simple bone cysts were injected with bone marrow or steroid (methylprednisolone acetate). Ninety children with an average age of 9.5 years participated in this study. 
Results were available for 77 children. Two years after treatment, X‐ray examination showed that successful healing of bone cysts was more common in children who had received steroid injections; however, we are very uncertain whether this is a true finding. Low quality evidence two years after treatment showed children in the two treatment groups had similar high levels of function (measured by the Activity Scale for Kids score) and low levels of pain (measured by Oucher score). There was very low quality evidence that there was no difference between the two interventions for adverse events, including pathological fracture after treatment. As the quality of the evidence is low, or very low, we cannot definitively conclude that there are no differences between the treatments, and we do not know whether either treatment gives better results with fewer complications. 
