Can we help smokers to increase their use of stop‐smoking medicines?
Background 
Medicines designed to make it easier for people to stop smoking, such as nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), bupropion and varenicline, are safe and successfully help people to quit. However, people often do not follow the instructions that come with the medicines properly, which may mean that the medicines do not work as well as they could. This probably reduces a person's chances of giving up smoking for good. In this review, we looked at whether there are ways to help people to use stop‐smoking medicines correctly, and whether this makes people more likely to quit smoking. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies up to September 2018, and we found 10 studies, including 3655 people. All of these people were smokers, over 18 years of age. Studies tested different ways of helping people use their stop‐smoking medicines properly. Typically this meant providing additional information about the medicine or helping people to overcome problems they had with taking the medicine. One study delivered support by telephone, and the rest provided at least some face‐to‐face support. All included studies measured the amount that people used their medicines and all but one measured how many people quit smoking. 
Key results 
People who received help to improve their use of medicines to stop smoking used their medicines slightly more than people who did not receive this help. There was some evidence that this also led to slightly more people quitting smoking. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence that helping people improve their use of stop‐smoking medicines can successfully boost the use of these medicines is of moderate quality, meaning that more evidence could make us feel more certain of this effect. This is because there were problems with the methods of some of the included studies. The evidence suggesting that approaches to improve the use of stop‐smoking medicines can help more people to quit smoking is of low quality, which means that we are not confident that they do actually help more people to quit and further evidence may or may not strengthen our confidence in this effect. This is because there were problems with some of the study methods and because it is unclear whether providing extra support to encourage people to use their medicines leads to more or fewer people successfully quitting smoking. 
