Which types of medicines work best when injected into the hand to treat a painful swollen finger (trigger finger)? 
Key messages 
1. A single injection of a medicine called an NSAID (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug) to treat trigger finger offered little to no benefit 6 months later 
2. One injection of an NSAID may not work better than one injection of a steroid to treat the symptoms of trigger finger 
3. More people may continue to have moderate to severe symptoms 3 to 6 months after an NSAID injection compared with those who had a steroid injection 
4. There were no differences in the numbers of unwanted effects reported after injections of either type of medicine (steroid or non‐steroid) 
What is trigger finger? 
Trigger finger is a condition that affects one or more of the tendons in your hand. Tendons are tissues that join muscle to bone, to let you move your joints. When a tendon in your hand is swollen and inflamed, bending the affected finger is difficult and painful. Without treatment, the affected finger may become permanently bent, making everyday tasks difficult. 
Treating trigger finger 
For some people, trigger finger might get better without treatment. If it doesn't, treatments include: 
1. rest ‐ avoiding certain activities;
2. physical therapy;
3. strapping the finger to a piece of plastic (splint) to reduce movement;
4. medicines known as NSAIDs taken by mouth or directly through the skin to reduce pain; and 
5. steroid medicines injected to reduce swelling.
If none of these treatments works, surgery may be needed to help the tendon move freely again. 
Why did we do this Cochrane Review? 
Injecting steroid medicines into the hand to treat trigger finger may cause unwanted effects. We wanted to find out if injecting NSAID medicines into the hand could help people with trigger finger and cause fewer unwanted effects than steroids. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested NSAID medicines injected to treat trigger finger. We compared results of the studies we found to arrive at an overall estimate of how well an NSAID injection can treat trigger finger. 
