Angioplasty versus stenting for below‐knee arterial disease in people with chronic limb‐threatening ischaemia 
Background 
Chronic limb‐threatening ischaemia (CLTI) is a manifestation of peripheral arterial disease that occurs as chronic ischaemic rest pain or ischaemic skin lesions, ulcers, or gangrene with symptoms present for longer than two weeks. The symptoms are a result of impaired blood flow to the leg and the foot due to narrowing of the arteries by atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is a disease of the arteries caused by a buildup of plaque composed of fat, cholesterol, calcium, and other substances in the blood; over time, the plaque narrows the artery. Patients can have narrowing of the artery in the thigh or below the knee. This review focusses on a subgroup of patients with below‐knee arterial disease (infrapopliteal arterial disease) who might benefit from an intervention that re‐establishes blood flow by inserting and inflating a balloon to re‐open the narrowed artery (percutaneous transluminal angioplasty). This can be performed with or without additional placement of a stent (a scaffold made of metal alloy or other material). The types of stents used in this procedure vary from a simple bare‐metal stent to a stent coated with medication. However, it is not clear whether deploying stents after ballooning in narrowed below‐knee arteries (infrapopliteal arteries) provides any additional benefit for the patient. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We identified seven trials with a combined total of 542 participants comparing percutaneous transluminal angioplasty (PTA) alone versus PTA with stent placement (current until June 2018). One trial randomised limbs to PTA alone or PTA with stent placement, and the remaining studies randomised participants. Full analysis of five trials shows that the technical success rate of re‐opening the narrowed artery was higher in the stent group than in the PTA group. However, we noted no clear differences in patency (opened vessel remaining open) of the treated vessel at six months. The complication rate of the procedure, the number of major amputations at 12 months, and the number of deaths at 12 months also did not differ greatly between treatment groups. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The overall certainty of evidence provided by the trials included in this review was moderate. Trials differed in their methods. Two studies reported poorly on the methods used to generate random numbers and to allocate participants to different groups. All studies were unblinded. All included studies were rated as direct in their relevance to the review question. Overall, we downgraded the certainty of evidence for all outcomes by one level to moderate due to inconsistency of results across studies and the small numbers of studies and participants. 
Conclusion 
PTA with stent placement is better than PTA alone for restoring vessel patency immediately; however we found no clear difference in short‐term patency at six months between the two groups. Trials show no clear differences between groups in complications at or around the time of the procedure, major amputation, and death. Currently available data suggest that high‐certainty evidence is insufficient to show that PTA with stent placement is superior to PTA alone for treatment of infrapopliteal arterial lesions. Further studies should standardise the use of blood‐thinning drugs (antiplatelets/anticoagulants) before and after both interventions to improve the comparability of the two treatments. 
