How accurate is the Mini‐Cog in detecting dementia among patients in inpatient and outpatient hospital settings? 
Why is recognising dementia important? 
Dementia is a common and important condition, and many of those living with dementia have never had the condition diagnosed. Diagnosis provides opportunities for social support, advance care planning and, in specific disease types, treatment with medication. However, incorrectly diagnosing dementia when it is not present (a false‐positive result) can be distressing for the individual and their family and lead to a waste of resources in diagnostic tests. 
What was the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out how accurate the Mini‐Cog test is for detecting dementia among patients in inpatient and outpatient hospital settings. The researchers included three studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
The Mini‐Cog is a short test of memory and thinking skills that tests the ability of an individual to remember three specific objects, named at the beginning of a short assessment, repeated at the time and recalled by the individual later. In addition, the individual being assessed is asked to draw a clock face at a specific time. Points are scored based on the ability to recall the three items and the completeness of the clock. The Mini‐Cog is a short test that would typically be used to identify if someone was having difficulty with memory and thinking skills who would benefit from referral to a specialist for more detailed assessment. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included data from three relevant studies with a total of 2560 participants. However, the study authors did not use data from many of those participants they assessed, leaving results from only 1415 participants that provide complete and useful information for addressing the review question. 
All three studies scored the Mini‐Cog results in the way that was recommended by the developers of the tool. There was no clear pattern in the results of what a positive result of a Mini‐Cog test meant across the three studies, making it difficult to draw summary conclusions. Using the studies with the highest and lowest Mini‐Cog results indicated that if the Mini‐Cog were to be used in secondary care in a group of 1000 people, where 640 (64%) have dementia, an estimated 510 to 557 would have a positive Mini‐Cog, of which 0 to 126 would be incorrectly classified as having dementia. Of the 443 to 490 people with a result indicating dementia is not present, 83 to 256 would be incorrectly classified as not having dementia. 
