Treatments for female pattern hair loss
Review question 
Which treatments are effective and safe for female pattern hair loss (FPHL)?
Background 
The most common type of hair loss in women is FPHL, also known as androgenic alopecia. Unlike men, women do not go bald, but have hair thinning predominantly over the top and front of the head. It can occur at any time, from puberty until later in life. However, it occurs more frequently in postmenopausal women. 
The diagnosis is supported by careful history taking (including family history). Other causes should be considered; therefore, a clinical examination and laboratory tests may be necessary. FPHL can have a significant impact on self‐consciousness, and the damage to a woman's self‐confidence can affect her quality of life (QoL), leading to feelings of unattractiveness, shame, discomfort, emotional stress, and low self‐esteem. 
Study characteristics 
We examined the available evidence up to 7 July 2015. Forty‐seven studies, which included 5290 women, met the inclusion criteria of this Cochrane review. The mean age of participants in the studies varied from 27 to 57 years. We assessed over half of the included studies as at unclear risk of bias, 16 as high risk, and only five studies as low risk of bias. Funding was provided in 26 of the 47 studies, mainly by pharmaceutical companies. 
Key results 
This Cochrane review found that minoxidil is more effective than placebo. In six studies, the proportion of women that experienced at least moderate hair regrowth was twice as high in the minoxidil group compared to the placebo group. This was confirmed by the investigators assessments in seven studies. In eight studies, there was an important increase in total hair count per cm² in the minoxidil group compared to the placebo group. QoL was only assessed in one study and it was unclear from the data if there was an important improvement. The number of adverse events was similar for both groups. These were mostly mild, consisting of itch, skin irritation, dermatitis, and additional hair growth on areas other than the scalp. 
Four studies compared minoxidil (2%) to minoxidil (5%), but none of the studies indicated any benefit of the higher concentration over the lower concentration. The number of adverse events did not differ between the two groups. Minoxidil should not be used in pregnant or lactating women. 
Three studies compared finasteride to placebo. Finasteride is only approved in men for treatment of hair loss as well as for enlarged prostate. In one of the three studies the opinion of both the participants and investigators were evaluated but finasteride was shown to be no more effective than placebo. Hair count improved only in the finasteride group in a small study with 12 participants, but not in the other two studies (219 participants). Adverse events were only addressed in one study and these were similar in both groups. The investigators of these studies did not assess QoL. 
Laser comb therapy did not appear to be more effective than sham therapy according to the participants in two studies with 141 participants. Nonetheless an important increase in hair growth was reported in both these studies. QoL was not addressed, and adverse events were not reported per intervention group, making these data less usable. 
Individual studies investigated most of the other interventions and comparisons, and we could not make any firm conclusions about the efficacy or safety of these other interventions. 
Although it is generally acknowledged that renewed hair shedding occurs relatively soon after discontinuation of treatment, none of the included studies reported data on the sustainability of the treatment effect, nor on the possible impact of hair regrowth, reflected by a decrease in time spent by women on hair styling or the use of wigs. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of evidence for most outcomes as moderate or low. The lower quality of evidence was mainly caused by risk of bias in studies (e.g. no blinding) or a small sample size making the results less precise. 
