Do nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) increase the risk of bleeding in children having their tonsils out? 
Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are used for pain relief following tonsillectomy in children. Bleeding is a recognized complication of this procedure and NSAIDs can interfere with blood clotting, so there has been concern that these drugs will increase the risk of bleeding. If bleeding is severe this may result in the child being re‐admitted to hospital, having a blood transfusion or returning to theatre. It was therefore important to establish whether these drugs are safe to use in children having their tonsils out. The review focused on clinically significant bleeding that results in the child requiring additional treatment rather than the measured blood loss. We also wanted to establish whether NSAIDs affect the incidence of other postoperative complications such as nausea and vomiting when compared to other forms of analgesia. Additionally we aimed to investigate whether different types of NSAIDs were more likely to lead to bleeding.  
The main limitation of our updated review was that bleeding following tonsillectomy is an uncommon event (occurring in 3% to 5% of children). We found all the data from randomized controlled trials that are currently available (15 trials studying approximately 1000 children). Our results were consistent with both an increased and decreased risk of bleeding. There were insufficient data to compare the risk of bleeding with each individual type of NSAID. However, we were able to compare ketorolac, which has been perceived as having a greater risk of bleeding, with the other NSAIDs and found no increased risk of bleeding. There was less nausea and vomiting when NSAIDs were used as part of the pain relief regime than when NSAIDs were not used. 
There is insufficient evidence to exclude an increased risk of bleeding when NSAIDs are used in paediatric tonsillectomy. They do, however, confer the benefit of a reduction in vomiting. 
