Bone‐modifying agents for men with prostate cancer and bone metastases
Review question 
In this systematic review we aimed to compare different agents to prevent skeletal complications in men with prostate cancer and bone metastases and to provide a ranking of these treatment options. We looked at different outcomes like reduction in pain, prevention of different skeletal‐related events, occurrence of adverse events, and quality of life. We wanted to find out which bone‐modifying agent is most effective while causing the fewest adverse events when given as supportive treatment to men with prostate cancer and bone metastases. 
Background 
The prostate is a gland in the male reproductive system. Prostate cancer can spread to other parts of the body (called metastases) including the bones. Bone metastases in men with prostate cancer may lead to skeletal complications like fractures or pain. Different bone‐modifying agents are used as supportive treatment to prevent skeletal complications through formation of new bone mass. Until now no clear recommendations could be given about which agents are the most effective while also causing the fewest adverse events. We used statistical methods to compare all agents with each other based on the available information. 
Study characteristics 
We conducted thorough searches in various databases until 23 March 2020. We included 25 studies comparing different bone‐modifying agents with each other or against no further treatment or placebo treatment (dummy treatment) in men with prostate cancer and bone metastases. 
Key results 
Twenty‐one of the 25 included studies reported data for our predefined patient‐relevant outcomes. A total of seven different agents were included, six bisphosphonates (zoledronic acid, risedronate, pamidronate, alendronate, etidronate, and clodronate) and one other agent, denosumab. Analysis was only possible for each outcome of interest separately. Considering skeletal‐related events, zoledronic acid and denosumab appeared to be the most effective, but also seemed to cause the most and worst adverse events (like renal impairment for treatment with zoledronic acid and osteonecrosis of the jaw for denosumab). Most of the included studies did not report data on quality of life or reported it very poorly, so that we could not analyse this outcome combining the information from different studies. The results were therefore described with words. 
