Does giving people feedback on the effects of smoking on their body help them quit smoking? 
Background 
Biomedical risk assessment is the process of giving people feedback on the effects of smoking on their body. The physical effects of smoking can be assessed using various measurements, and some people think this could be used as a tool to encourage people to quit smoking. We reviewed the evidence about whether giving adult smokers feedback on the effects of smoking on their body helps them quit smoking. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes 20 studies using a variety of measurements. One study included two measurements, for a total of 21 measurements assessed. The main feedback measurements we assessed were the level of carbon monoxide in people's breath (a sign of current smoking), measures of lung function (a sign of lung damage from smoking), genetic tests to provide individual risk of cancer, and ultrasound of major arteries in the neck to measure the amount of plaque (a risk factor for stroke). We grouped studies into three categories according to the type of feedback people were given: feedback on exposure to smoking (five studies); feedback on a person's risk for smoking‐related diseases (five studies); and feedback on the harms of smoking (11 studies). The studies included a total of 9262 people. All participants were adult smokers, and both men and women were included (although one study performed in a clinic for army veterans included only 4% women). Most studies were conducted in general practices or ambulatory clinics. All of the studies lasted at least six months. The reported evidence is current as of March 2018. 
Key results 
We did not find evidence that giving smokers feedback on their smoking exposure, their genetic risk of smoking‐related disease, or the effects of smoking on their body helps them quit smoking. The most promising results were for giving people feedback on the harm smoking does to their bodies. The studies did not report on harms or side effects of providing feedback. However, given the nature of the measurements (lung or blood tests), we would expect the risk of harms to be low. 
Certainty of evidence 
Because of problems with the way some of the studies were conducted, we think that further research is likely to change our conclusions. 
