Opioids for chronic non‐cancer pain in children and adolescents
Bottom line 
There is no evidence from randomised controlled trials to support or refute the suggestion that opioids in any dose will provide pain relief for children or adolescents with chronic non‐cancer pain. 
Background 
Children can experience chronic or recurrent pain related to genetic conditions, damaged nerves, chronic musculoskeletal pain, and chronic abdominal pain, as well as for other unknown reasons. Chronic pain is pain that lasts three months or longer and is commonly accompanied by changes in lifestyle and functional abilities, as well as by signs and symptoms of depression and anxiety. 
Opioids are used worldwide for the treatment of pain. Opioids are generally available in healthcare settings across most high‐income countries, but access may be restricted in low‐ and middle‐income countries. For example, opioids currently available in the UK include: buprenorphine, codeine, fentanyl, hydromorphone, methadone, morphine, oxycodone, and tramadol. Opioids are used in varying doses and are commonly administered via injection or oral tablets. 
Key results 
In September 2016 we searched for clinical trials where any opioids were used to treat chronic pain (potentially from either nerve pain, musculoskeletal problems, menstrual cramps, or abdominal discomfort). 
We found no studies that met the requirements for this review. Several studies tested opioids in adults with chronic pain, but none in participants from birth to 17 years old. 
Quality of the evidence 
We planned to rate the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. 
We were unable to rate the quality of the evidence as there was no evidence from randomised controlled trials to support or refute the suggestion that opioids in any dose will reduce chronic non‐cancer pain in children or adolescents. 
