Immunonutrition for patients undergoing surgery for head and neck cancer
Review question 
This review compared how people recover after surgery for head and neck cancer if they have been given either 'immunonutrition' or a standard feed before and after or only after the surgery. We looked at how long people stayed in hospital, whether they had any complications and how many people in each treatment group died. 
Background 
Head and neck cancer surgery usually means surgery to treat cancer of the mouth, throat or larynx (voice box). The surgery is complicated and people often experience problems such as wound infections and wound breakdown, as well as infections such as pneumonia. These can lead to a longer stay in hospital. Specific nutrients, for example amino acids (found in protein‐based foods), omega‐3 fatty acids (often found in fish oils) and nucleotides (found in many foods) have been investigated for their role in helping people recover from surgery. When any of these specific nutrients are added to the patient's feed it is called immunonutrition. We wanted to see whether feeding people immunonutrition improved recovery (for example, led to a shorter length of stay and fewer complications) when compared with a standard feed. 
Study characteristics 
We included 19 studies that recruited 1099 adults in total (studies ranged in size from 8 to 209 participants, but most (12 out of 19) had fewer than 25 participants per treatment group). The studies focused on people who were given immunonutrition or a standard feed before and after or only after their surgery. The studies varied in the length of time over which people were given the feeds, but this was usually at least five days. The evidence is current to February 2018. 
Key results 
We did not find evidence of a difference in the length of hospital stay but there was wide variation between the individual studies in what they showed. We found some evidence that people who had immunonutrition may be about half as likely to have breakdown of their surgical wound called a fistula (a channel between the inside of the throat and the surface skin). We found no evidence that immunonutrition had any effect on wound infection (but not all studies were clear in how they measured this) or death. Study feeds were generally well tolerated and there was no evidence of a difference in adverse events such as diarrhoea between treatment groups. Other clinical complications such as pneumonia and urinary tract infections were not commonly reported, but there was little evidence of a reduction with immunonutrition. 
