We identified eight RCTs with a total of 3610 people with symptomatic PAD where participants were randomised to receive an anti‐hypertensive treatment for at least one month or placebo or no treatment. Four studies compared an anti‐hypertensive treatment with placebo and four studies compared two anti‐hypertensive treatments with each other. The studies were not combined due to the variation of comparisons and the outcomes presented. One trial with 1725 participants showed that the angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor ramipril was effective in reducing the number of cardiovascular events by 28% compared to placebo. In one other study using an ACE inhibitor (n = 52) the perindopril group showed a small increase in claudication distance but no change in ABI and a reduction in maximal walking distance (MWD). In patients undergoing peripheral arterial angioplasty (a procedure to open narrowed or blocked blood vessels) the results from a trial with 96 participants suggested that the calcium channel blocker verapamil reduced restenosis (new blockage of the artery) at six months. In one small study (n = 80) peripheral arterial wall thickness was similar whether men received the thiazide diuretic hydrochlorothiazide (HCTZ) or the alpha‐adrenoreceptor blocker doxazosin. In another small study (n = 36) MWD was improved at 12 months in the angiotensin‐II receptor antagonist telmisartan group compared to the placebo group but there were no significant differences in ABI or arterial wall thickness. Another study (n = 163) found no significant differences in intermittent or absolute claudication distance, ABI, all‐cause mortality or non‐fatal cardiovascular events after 24 weeks of treatment in the beta‐adrenoreceptor blocker nebivolol group and the HCTZ group. A study comparing two beta‐adrenoreceptor blockers, nebivolol and metoprolol, found no clear differences in intermittent or absolute claudication distance, ABI, all‐cause mortality or revascularisation after 36 weeks of treatment. A subgroup analysis of PAD patients (n = 2699) in the final study revealed no significant differences in the combined endpoints of death, non‐fatal myocardial infarction or non‐fatal stroke with or without revascularisation between the calcium antagonist‐based strategy (verapamil slow release (SR) with or without trandolapril) compared to the beta‐adrenoreceptor blocker strategy (atenolol with or without HCTZ). 