Adverse events after single doses of oral analgesics for acute pain after operation in adults 
Acute pain is often felt soon after injury. Most people who have surgery have moderate or severe pain afterwards. Painkillers (analgesics) are tested in people with pain, often following the removal of wisdom teeth. In all these studies, the participants have to have at least moderate pain in order for there to be a sensitive measure of pain‐relieving properties. The pain is usually treated with painkillers taken by mouth. Results can be applied to other forms of acute pain. 
In May 2015, we performed searches to update an overview review originally published in 2011. The Cochrane Library now has 39 reviews of oral analgesic interventions for pain immediately after operations, with 41 different painkillers at various doses. How well the drugs work is reported in a different overview. 
In this overview, we used information from about 35,000 participants in about 350 studies to look specifically at the adverse events (unwanted effects) experienced with painkillers, and compared the results with those for placebo (dummy pill). Measuring adverse events is complicated because the particular method used to collect information influences how many adverse events are reported. Most people in the studies had wisdom teeth removed, were relatively young and fit, and were likely to take occasional painkillers. Adverse events may be different in people who are less well, older, or who take painkillers for several days or longer. 
The results we have showed that for most nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (painkillers like aspirin, ibuprofen, or diclofenac), paracetamol, and combinations of different painkillers that do not contain opioids (drugs like codeine), adverse events happened to the same proportion of people with painkillers and placebo. With aspirin 1000 mg, opioids, or fixed dose combinations containing opioids, people typically experienced significantly more adverse events than with placebo. A combination of ibuprofen and paracetamol resulted in significantly fewer adverse events than placebo. 
