Ergonomic interventions for preventing work‐related musculoskeletal disorders of the upper limb and neck among office workers 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if ergonomic interventions can prevent musculoskeletal pain or discomfort or both (musculoskeletal disorders; MSDs) among office workers. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 15 studies. 
Key messages 
We found physical ergonomic interventions, such as using an arm support with a computer mouse based on neutral posture, may or may not prevent work‐related MSDs among office workers. We are still uncertain of the effectiveness of the other physical, organisational and cognitive ergonomic interventions. 
What was studied in the review? 
We selected office workers in our review, as they are a working population that has a higher risk for developing MSDs of the upper limb and neck. We assessed the effect of using ergonomic principles to improve the workplace and working process. Ergonomic refers to interactions among workers and other elements in the working environment, which includes physical, organisational and cognitive components. Physical ergonomic interventions include improving the equipment and environment of the workplace. The aim of these methods is to reduce the physical strain to the musculoskeletal system, thus reducing risk of injury. Meanwhile, organisational ergonomic interventions consist of allowing optimum workplace and rest time for the musculoskeletal system to recover from fatigue, thus reducing the risk of long‐term injury. Cognitive ergonomic interventions consist of improving mental processes such as perception, memory, reasoning and motor response through modifying work processes and training. The aim of these methods is to reduce mental workload, increase reliability and reduce error, which may have an indirect effect on reducing strain on the musculoskeletal system. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 15 studies that included 2165 workers. Fourteen of the studies conducted and reported their work poorly, and most of the studies had a small number of participants. 
Out of the 15 studies, five studies evaluated the effectiveness of physical ergonomic interventions. Four studies evaluated the effectiveness of organisational ergonomic interventions, in the form of breaks or reduced working hours in preventing work‐related MSDs of the upper limb or neck, or both, among office workers. Five studies evaluated the effectiveness of ergonomic training, and one study evaluated multifaceted ergonomic interventions. We did not find any studies evaluating the effectiveness of cognitive ergonomic interventions. 
Physical ergonomic interventions 
We found that the use of an arm support or a mouse based on neutral posture may or may not prevent work‐related MSDs of the neck and shoulder. Workstation adjustment, and sit‐stand desks do not have an effect on upper limb pain compared to no intervention. 
