Women’s position for giving birth without epidural anaesthesia
What is the issue? 
Women often give birth in upright positions like kneeling, standing or squatting. Some women give birth on their backs in what are known as ‘supine’ positions ‐ including dorsal (the woman flat on her back), lateral (the woman lying on her side), semi‐recumbent (where the woman is angled partly upright) or lithotomy (where the woman’s legs are held up in stirrups). Birth position can be influenced by many different factors including setting, mother's choice, caregiver preference, or medical intervention. This Cochrane review assessed the possible benefits and risks to the mother and baby, by giving birth in upright positions compared with supine positions and also looked at some individual upright positions for benefits and harms. 
Why is this important? 
Giving birth in the supine position may have been adopted to make it more convenient for midwives and obstetricians to assist the labour and birth. However, many women report that giving birth on their backs feels painful, uncomfortable and difficult. It is suggested that women in upright positions give birth more easily because the pelvis is able to expand as the baby moves down; gravity may also be helpful and the baby may benefit because the weight of the uterus will not be pressing down on the mother’s major blood vessels which supply oxygen and nutrition to the baby. 
We looked at the upright positions such as: sitting (on an obstetric chair or stool); kneeling (either on all fours or kneeling up) and squatting (unaided or using a birth cushion or a squatting bar). We compared these with supine positions such as: dorsal; lateral; semi‐recumbent and lithotomy. Our aim was to assess the effectiveness, benefits and possible disadvantages of the different positions for women without epidural, during the second stage of labour. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence up to 30 November 2016. This review now includes data from 30 randomised controlled trials involving 9015 pregnant women who gave birth without epidural anaesthesia. 
Overall, evidence was not of good quality. When women gave birth in an upright position, as compared with lying on their backs, the length of time they were pushing (second stage of labour) was reduced by around six minutes (19 trials, 5811 women; very low‐quality evidence). Fewer women had an assisted delivery, for example with forceps (21 trials, 6481 women; moderate‐quality evidence). The number of women having a caesarean section did not differ (16 trials, 5439 women; low‐quality evidence). Fewer women had an episiotomy (a surgical cut to the perineum to enlarge the opening for the baby to pass through) although there was a tendency for more women to have perineal tears (low‐quality evidence). There was no difference in number of women with serious perineal tears (6 trials, 1840 women; very low‐quality evidence) between those giving birth upright or supine. Women were more likely to have a blood loss of 500 mL or more (15 trials, 5615 women; moderate‐quality evidence) in the upright position but this may be associated with more accurate ways of measuring the blood loss. Fewer babies had problems with fast or irregular heart beats that indicate distress (2 trials, 617 women) when women gave birth in an upright position although the number of admissions to the neonatal unit was no different (4 trials, 2565 infants; low‐quality evidence). 
What does this mean? 
This review found that there could be benefits for women who choose to give birth in an upright position. The length of time they had to push may be reduced but the effect was very small and these women might lose more blood. The results should be interpreted with caution because of poorly conducted studies, variations between trials and in how the findings were analysed. 
