Interventions for treating catheter‐related bloodstream infections in people receiving maintenance haemodialysis 
What is the issue? 
Patients with kidney failure require kidney replacement therapy (KRT) to sustain life. Among KRT options, haemodialysis (HD) is the primary method of dialysis. Patients receiving HD via an indwelling catheter have a higher risk of developing bloodstream infections. There are several options for treating these bloodstream infections. These include lock solutions (the infusion of high doses of antibiotic inside each of the catheter ports between the dialysis sessions), removal of the catheter followed by a new insertion after initial clinical improvement, exchange of the catheter for a new one by a guidewire (inserted through one of the catheter's ports into the same vein, allowing the preservation of the venous site), and the use of systemic antibiotics (used in isolated or combined with other treatments). Each treatment has its own inherent risks. 
What did we do? 
We searched Cochrane Kidney and Transplant’s Specialised Register up to 21 December 2021 and performed a systematic review of studies investigating treatment options for catheter‐related bloodstream infection in patients undergoing HD. 
What did we find? 
We found three studies enrolling 760 participants that compared various treatments for catheter‐related bloodstream infections. No studies compared similar treatment strategies or had similar outcomes, and therefore we were unable to combine data in our meta‐analyses. The comparisons included systemic antibiotics with two different lock solutions, systemic antibiotics alone versus systemic antibiotics plus an ethanol lock solution, and systemic antibiotics plus catheter removal versus systemic antibiotics plus catheter exchange. 
One study reported a higher success rate for clearing infection with systemic antibiotics plus ethanol locking treatment than systemic antibiotics alone. The other studies reported no difference between their two treatment arms. Outcomes such as venous stenosis and/or thrombosis, antibiotic resistance, death, and adverse events were not reported. 
Conclusions 
Further randomised studies to identify the benefits and harms of catheter‐related bloodstream infection treatments are needed. 
