Laryngeal mask airway versus endotracheal tube for percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy in critically ill adults 
Review question 
We compared different ways of securing patients' airways so that the patients can continue to be ventilated during planned opening of the trachea. This procedure is needed for adults hospitalized for a length of time in an intensive care unit (ICU) and continuing to require artificial ventilation. The use of a laryngeal mask airway was compared with the existing endotracheal tube in terms of the safety and effectiveness of the procedure. 
Background 
Critically ill adults in an ICU often require mechanical ventilation to help them to breathe. Initially they are ventilated using an endotracheal tube (ETT) placed in the trachea (windpipe). Patients receiving long‐term ventilation may require a tracheostomy with the breathing tube placed directly into the trachea to avoid damage to the trachea and larynx by the ETT. An opening in the neck and trachea (tracheostoma) is created and a tracheostomy tube is then inserted into this opening to ventilate the patient. This procedure is known as percutaneous dilatational tracheostomy (PDT) and is one of the most common interventional bedside procedures performed in the ICU. PDT uses a cannula to puncture through the skin to reach the trachea, followed by widening (dilatation) of this access to place a tracheostomy tube in the trachea. 
PDT enters a critical stage when the tracheal cannula is inserted and the previous means of breathing, through the ETT, is loosened in the trachea and then removed. Several complications can occur at this stage. 
The ETT can be damaged and the patient may not receive sufficient oxygen, the contents from the stomach may enter the lungs causing a severe lung infection, the oesophagus may be damaged, and air may get into the space between the lungs and the chest wall, or tissues in the chest may become inflamed. 
A laryngeal mask airway (LMA) is often used for general anaesthesia and can also be used during PDT. It is secured in the throat and does not have to be withdrawn during the PDT, although the seal of the LMA is not as effective as that of an ETT. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2018. We included nine randomized controlled trials (517 participants). The trials included between 40 and 73 participants. 
Key results 
Although use of the LMA procedure may shorten the period during which the airway is insecure, the procedure is more likely to have to be changed. 
Only one small study of 40 participants reported the number of people who died from any cause during their stay in hospital, without any difference between treatment groups. No deaths were caused by the procedure itself in the five studies (281 participants) that reported this outcome. Eight studies reported the number of participants with one or more serious adverse events, showing no clear evidence of a benefit for a laryngeal mask airway or endotracheal tube (467 participants). Serious adverse events that occurred were irregular rhythm of the heart beat, low blood oxygen concentrations, accidental displacement of the ETT or LMA, damage of parts of the ETT, minor bleeding and reflux of swallowed food into the airways. Neither method was superior in terms of preventing any adverse event. 
The duration of the procedure was clearly shorter in the laryngeal mask group, by well over a minute (6 studies, 324 participants). This benefit was associated with a higher risk of needing to change over to a different procedure (8 studies, 434 participants). Longer‐term complications were not sufficiently investigated. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the quality of evidence to be very low or low because we could not obtain important information on the methods used to conduct these studies. We had serious concerns about study limitations, the small number of participants in the studies and the variation in findings within and between studies (imprecision). Most studies were limited in reporting on patient relevant outcomes. The first study was published in 2002 and techniques have improved over time since then. 
