Prostacyclin in pulmonary arterial hypertension
Review question 
We wanted to review whether a group of drugs called prostacyclin analogues help people with pulmonary hypertension. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Why this review is important 
Pulmonary hypertension can cause breathlessness, reduced exercise tolerance, reduced quality of life, hospitalisations, and early death. Prostacyclin analogues may improve blood circulation in the right heart and lungs. We wanted to make sure if these drugs are being used, there is evidence of benefit and little or no harm. 
Main findings 
We found and included 17 trials with 3765 people. Most of the studies were 12 weeks long. Some trials were as long as 52 weeks. Most trials involved adults. People who were given prostacyclin analogues were compared to people who were not given prostacyclin. People in four trials were given the drugs by a continuous drip (24 hours/day) into a vein (intravenous) and in one trial through continuous injection under the skin (subcutaneous). In five trials people inhaled the drugs through a nebuliser and in five trials they took tablets (oral). People in two studies took selexipag tablets. Selexipag is an agonist of the prostacyclin receptor and the trials in selexipag were analysed separately. 
People who were given prostacyclins via intravenous drip showed improved survival (a lower chance of dying). They could also walk on average 92 metres further in six minutes than people not given the prostacyclin drip. They were also more likely to improve their functional class (what you can and cannot do on a daily basis). People with intravenous prostacyclins had better heart function on average than those who had no treatment. 
Overall, the results were less clear for people given oral, inhaled or subcutaneous prostacyclins. It was not clear whether giving the drug in these ways led to improved survival. People who took inhaled (nebuliser) prostacyclins improved their functional class, walked on average 27 metres further in six minutes, and had better heart function. There was also some evidence that subcutaneous prostacyclins improved heart function. It was not clear if taking tablets improved functional class or heart function. People receiving this treatment only walked 15 metres further in six minutes than those not receiving prostacyclin tablets. 
Whilst this review found evidence was best for prostacyclin via continuous drip, it may be inconvenient, and might increase risks such as intravenous line‐related infections. Furthermore almost all people taking recommended doses in any form have important drug‐related side effects (including flushing, headache, jaw pain, diarrhoea, pain in their extremities, upper respiratory tract side effects, nausea and vomiting). 
People taking selexipag had less clinical worsening, and a small 13‐metre difference in their six‐minute walk test compared to people taking placebo. People who used selexipag were also more likely to have side effects including flushing, jaw pain, diarrhoea, nausea/vomiting, and pain in the muscles/extremities. 
Limitations 
There is moderate‐certainty evidence that prostacyclin helps people compared to those who do not use it. The benefit is best for those who receive the drug via a continuous drip, but the risks are higher. Also, on average, the studies only lasted three months (some up to 1 year), and this may not be enough time to see benefit or risks. 
