Ustekinumab and briakinumab for the treatment of inactive Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease is a long‐term (chronic) inflammatory bowel disease that can affect any part of the gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus. Common symptoms include abdominal pain, diarrhea, and weight loss. Crohn's disease is usually managed through medical and surgical therapies. When a person with Crohn's disease is experiencing symptoms, the disease is ‘active’. When symptoms of Crohn's disease disappear, the disease is said to be in remission. 
What are ustekinumab and briakinumab? 
Ustekinumab and briakinumab are biologic medications, which suppress the immune system and reduce the inflammation associated with Crohn's disease. They can be injected under the skin using a syringe (subcutaneous) or directly infused into a vein (intravenous). Many people with Crohn's disease fail conventional therapy with steroids or therapy with biologics (e.g. infliximab) or develop significant side effects. A drug such as ustekinumab may be an effective alternative for these individuals. 
What did the research investigate? 
The researchers investigated whether ustekinumab or briakinumab helps maintain remission in people with Crohn's disease and whether these medications have harmful effects (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to 17 September 2019. 
What did the researchers find? 
The researchers identified 3 studies (646 participants) that compared ustekinumab (2 studies, 542 participants) or briakinumab (1 study, 104 participants) to a placebo (a fake medicine). The treatment effect of ustekinumab was examined in one study after 22 weeks and another study after 44 weeks. The study of briakinumab examined the treatment effect after 24 weeks. All studies were of high methodological quality. 
Moderate‐certainty evidence suggests that ustekinumab is more effective than placebo at maintaining remission and reducing symptoms of Crohn's disease at 22 and 44 weeks. The rates of side effects (ustekinumab: 80%; placebo: 84%) and serious side effects (ustekinumab: 11%; placebo: 16%) were lower in ustekinumab participants than in placebo participants. High‐certainty evidence suggests there is no increased risk of side effects with ustekinumab compared to placebo. Commonly reported side effects included infections, injection site reactions, Crohn's disease event (e.g. disease worsening), abdominal pain, nausea, arthralgia (i.e. joint pain), and headache. Moderate‐certainty evidence suggests there is no increased risk of serious side effects with ustekinumab compared to placebo. Serious side effects included serious infections, malignant neoplasm (i.e. a cancerous tumor), and basal cell carcinoma (i.e. skin cancer). In one study, more ustekinumab participants (7%) withdrew from the study due to a side effect than placebo participants (1%). However, the certainty of the evidence was low. The most common side effect leading to study withdrawal was worsening Crohn's disease. 
