Phenobarbitone versus phenytoin monotherapy (single‐drug treatment) for epilepsy
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review previously published in 2013, Issue 1 of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in which abnormal electrical discharges from the brain cause recurrent seizures. We studied two types of epileptic seizures in this review: generalised onset seizures, in which electrical discharges begin in one part of the brain and move throughout the brain; and focal onset seizures, in which the seizure is generated in and affects one part of the brain (the whole hemisphere of the brain or part of a lobe of the brain). Focal seizures may become generalised (secondary generalisation), and move from one part of the brain throughout the brain. For around 70% of people with epilepsy, a single antiepileptic medication can control generalised onset or focal onset seizures. 
This review applies to people with focal seizures (with or without secondary generalisation) and people with generalised tonic‐clonic seizures, a specific generalised seizure type. This review does not apply to people with other generalised seizure types such as absence seizures or myoclonic seizures, as the recommended treatments for these seizure types are different. 
Worldwide, particularly in low‐ and middle‐income countries in Africa, Asia, and South America, phenobarbitone and phenytoin are commonly used antiepileptic drugs due to the low cost of these drugs. 
Objective 
The aim of this review was to compare how effective these drugs are at controlling seizures, to find out if they are associated with side effects that may result in individuals stopping the medication, and to inform a choice between these medications. 
Methods 
The last search for trials was in August 2018. We assessed the evidence from seven clinical trials in which people received either phenobarbitone or phenytoin and their treatment was decided randomly. We were able to combine data for 635 people from five of the seven trials; for the remaining 163 people from two trials, data were not available to use in this review 
Key results 
This review found no evidence to suggest a difference between phenobarbitone and phenytoin in terms of the time to seizure recurrence and time to seizure remission (seizure free period of six or 12 months). Phenobarbitone treatment was more likely to be withdrawn than phenytoin treatment, however, this may have been influenced by the design of the included studies (whether the people and the clinicians treating them knew which treatment the person was receiving). 
