Does the measles, mumps, rubella and varicella (MMRV) vaccine protect children, and does it cause harmful effects? 
Background 
Measles, mumps, rubella (German measles) and varicella (chickenpox) are infectious diseases caused by viruses. They are most common in children and young adults. They are not always serious, but can cause disability (such as deafness), complications and death. If pregnant women catch rubella, it may cause loss (miscarriage) of, or harm to, their unborn babies.A vaccine is a medicine that prevents infection by a specific disease. The MMR (measles, mumps, rubella) vaccine protects people against all three of these infections (a combined vaccine). Doctors can vaccinate against chickenpox at the same time by mixing the chickenpox (varicella) vaccine with the MMR vaccine (MMRV) or giving it separately at the same time (MMR+V).The MMR vaccine has reduced measles, mumps and rubella infections. However, some people think the MMR vaccine causes unwanted effects such as autism, swelling of the brain (encephalitis), meningitis, learning difficulties, type 1 diabetes, and other conditions. As a result, the number of children being vaccinated has fallen.This is the 2019 update of a review first published in 2005 and previously updated in 2012.Review question 
We wanted to find out how effectively MMR, MMR+V and MMRV vaccines stop children (up to 15 years old) from catching measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox. We also wanted to know if the vaccines cause unwanted effects. 
Study characteristics 
We looked for studies that assessed MMR, MMRV or MMR+V vaccines, given in any dose or time schedule, compared with not giving the vaccine, or giving a placebo vaccine (a sham treatment), to healthy children up to 15 years old. Studies needed to measure the number of cases of measles, mumps, rubella and chickenpox, and report whether children suffered any unwanted effects attributable to vaccination. We checked each study to make sure it used robust methods so that we could judge how reliable its results were. 
