Can electronic cigarettes help people stop smoking, and do they have any unwanted effects when used for this purpose? 
What are electronic cigarettes? 
Electronic cigarettes (e‐cigarettes) are handheld devices that work by heating a liquid that usually contains nicotine and flavourings. E‐cigarettes allow you to inhale nicotine in a vapour rather than smoke. Because they do not burn tobacco, e‐cigarettes do not expose users to the same levels of chemicals that can cause diseases in people who smoke  conventional cigarettes. 
Using an e‐cigarette is commonly known as 'vaping'. Many people use e‐cigarettes to help them to stop smoking tobacco. In this review we focus primarily on nicotine e‐cigarettes. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
Stopping smoking lowers your risk of getting lung cancer, heart attacks and many other diseases. Many people find it difficult to stop smoking. We wanted to find out if using e‐cigarettes could help people to stop smoking, and if people using them for this purpose experience any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the use of e‐cigarettes to help people stop smoking. 
We looked for randomized controlled trials, in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. We also looked for studies in which everyone received an e‐cigarette treatment. 
We were interested in finding out:
· how many people stopped smoking for at least six months; and· how many people had unwanted effects, reported on after at least one week of use. 
Search date: We included evidence published up to 1st May 2021. 
What we found 
We found 61 studies in 16,759 adults who smoked. The studies compared e‐cigarettes with: 
· nicotine replacement therapy, such as patches or gum;
· varenicline (a medicine to help people stop smoking);· nicotine‐free e‐cigarettes; 
· other types of nicotine‐containing e‐cigarettes (e.g. pod devices, newer devices);· behavioural support, such as advice or counselling; or· no support for stopping smoking. 
