Treatment options for people with recurrent and progressive glioblastoma
Why this is important 
Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is a very aggressive type of brain tumour. Even after treatment involving surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy the tumour may continue growing (progress) and almost always comes back (recurs). In this review, we consider progression and recurrence as one entity. A number of different treatments have been tested, but there has been no agreement about the best treatment/s to offer when someone’s tumour progresses or recurs. 
Objectives 
To evaluate which are the most effective treatments for people with progressive or recurrent GBM who have already received surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. We looked at effectiveness in terms of length of overall survival (OS), survival without disease progression (progression free survival, PFS), serious side effects, and whether treatments affected quality of life. We looked at treatments given when the disease first progressed or recurred (first recurrence) and when it came back again after that (second or subsequent recurrences). 
Methods 
We searched for relevant research studies comparing the effectiveness of different treatments for recurrent GBM. We used network meta‐analysis (NMA) to compare different treatments. NMA is a statistical method that allows different treatments to be looked at together to decide which is best. This method allows different treatments to be ranked according to their effectiveness, even if treatments have not been directly compared with each other in research studies. 
Main results 
We included 42 studies (34 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and 8 non‐randomised studies) involving 5236 people. Interventions included chemotherapy, re‐operation, re‐irradiation and newly developed treatments either used alone or in combination. NMA could not be performed for second or later recurrence due to insufficient data. 
Survival outcomes for people with a first recurrence 
We found no good evidence that any of the treatments tested were better than lomustine (also known as CCNU). Adding bevacizumab to lomustine (BEV + LOM) did not improve overall survival compared with lomustine alone. Other chemotherapy and novel agents either did not work, or the evidence on them was uncertain. Unfortunately, we did not find any studies on several commonly used treatments, such as PCV (procarbazine, CCNU, vincristine) and TMZ re‐challenge, to include. 
Limited evidence suggested that a second operation with or without other treatments may have survival advantages for some individuals with a first recurrence. A small study of a cannabinoid treatment suggests this merits further investigation. 
