Use of computer or robotic technology to assist surgeons in performing gynaecological surgery 
This updated review was originally covered by two separate Cochrane reviews on robot‐assisted surgery for benign and malignant gynaecological disease. 
The question  Laparoscopic (keyhole) surgery is widely used in gynaecology. Robot‐assisted surgery (RAS) is a relatively new type of laparoscopic surgery that allows the surgeon to conduct the operation from a computer console situated away from the patient via remote‐controlled mechanical arms attached to the surgical table. RAS is already in use in several countries for gynaecological surgery, particularly for hysterectomy (removal of the uterus/womb), and it has been reported to be useful for myomectomy (removal of uterine fibroids), tubal re‐anastomosis (joining two ends of one fallopian tube to restore fertility), sacrocolpopexy (designed to repair vaginal vault prolapse, when the uppermost part of the vagina slips downwards), and other procedures for benign (non‐cancerous) disease. It has also been used for treatment of women with gynaecological cancers, especially endometrial (lining of the womb) and cervical cancers. However, the benefits and risks of RAS versus standard surgical approaches have not been clearly established. 
How we conducted the review  We identified studies by searching databases and writing to researchers of registered trials. Two review authors independently assessed studies and collected the data from each study. We included only randomised controlled trials. We pooled data from similar individual studies in the analyses, and we examined different types of operations separately (hysterectomy, sacrocolpopexy, or surgery for endometriosis). 
Findings  We included 12 studies involving 1016 women requiring surgery for gynaecological disease. Studies were at moderate to high overall risk of bias. Operations performed were hysterectomy (eight studies) and sacrocolpopexy (three studies). In addition, one trial examined surgical treatment for endometriosis, which included resection or hysterectomy. We are uncertain as to whether RAS or conventional laparoscopic surgery (CLS) has lower overall complication rates because the evidence gathered was of low certainty. The time taken to carry out the operation varied considerably among studies reporting this outcome, so results are difficult to interpret, and although the evidence suggested slightly shorter hospital stays with RAS (one‐third of a day), we considered the evidence to be very uncertain and studies to be at high risk of bias. 
