Intervention for treating chronic prostatitis and chronic pelvic pain in men
Review question 
What are the effects of medical therapies in men with longstanding pain and discomfort around their prostate and pelvis, so‐called chronic prostatitis/chronic pelvic pain syndrome (CP/CPPS)? 
Background 
CP/CPPS is a common disorder in which men feel pelvic pain or have bothersome symptoms (or both of these) when urinating. Its cause is unknown and there are many different treatments for this condition. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence was current to July 2019. We found 96 studies that were conducted between 1983 and 2016 in 8646 men with CP/CPPS, with assessment of 16 types of pharmacological interventions. These therapies were given to men in an outpatient setting. Most studies did not specify their funding sources; 21 studies reported funding from pharmaceutical companies. 
Key results 
Alpha blockers: we are uncertain about the effects of alpha blockers on prostatitis symptoms. Alpha blockers may increase side‐effects, for example dizziness and low blood pressure. Alpha blockers probably result in little to no difference in sexual problems, quality of life or anxiety and depression. 
5‐alpha reductase inhibitors (5‐ARI): 5‐ARI probably reduce prostatitis symptoms and may not be associated with more side effects than seen in men taking a placebo. There was no information on sexual problems, quality of life or anxiety and depression. 
Antibiotics: antibiotics may reduce prostatitis symptoms and are probably not associated with side effects. Antibiotics probably result in little to no difference in sexual problems and quality of life. There was no information on anxiety and depression. 
Anti‐inflammatories: anti‐inflammatories may reduce prostatitis symptoms and may not be associated with side effects. There was no information on sexual problems, quality of life or anxiety and depression. 
Phytotherapy: phytotherapy may reduce prostatitis symptoms and may not be associated with side effects. Phytotherapy may not improve sexual problems. There was no information on quality of life and anxiety and depression. 
Botulinum toxin A (BTA): the injection of this toxin into the prostate may cause a large reduction in prostatitis symptoms, but if it is applied to muscles of the pelvis, BTA may not cause this effect. These injections may not be associated with side effects. There was no information on sexual problems, quality of life or anxiety and depression. 
