Exercise‐based rehabilitation for coronary heart disease
Background 
Coronary heart disease (CHD) is the single most common cause of death globally. However, with falling CHD mortality rates, an increasing number of people live with CHD and may need support to manage their symptoms (such as angina, shortness of breath with physical activity, and fatigue) and reduce the chances of future problems, such as heart attacks. Exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation (exercise training alone or in combination with psychological or educational interventions) aims to improve the health and outcomes of people with CHD. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific literature for randomised controlled trials (experiments that randomly allocate participants to one of two or more treatment groups) looking at the effectiveness of exercise‐based treatments compared with no exercise in people of all ages with CHD. The evidence is current to September 2020. 
Key resultsThis latest update identified an additional 22 trials (7795 participants). We included a total of 85 trials that studied 23,430 people with CHD, predominantly heart attack survivors and those who had undergone heart bypass surgery or angioplasty (a procedure which widens narrowed or obstructed arteries or veins). Thirty‐eight (45%) of the trials involved exercise‐only interventions and 47 (55%) involved interventions with exercise plus other components. The type of exercise most often included was stationary cycling, walking or circuit training. Twenty‐one (25%) of the interventions were delivered in the participants' homes.  
The findings of this update are consistent with the previous (2016) version of this Cochrane Review, and show important benefits of exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation that include a reduction in the risk of death due to any cause, heart attack, and hospital admission, and improvements in health‐related quality of life, compared with not undertaking exercise. A small body of economic evidence was identified, indicating exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation to be cost‐effective. Many of the studies identified in this current update were undertaken in low‐ and middle‐income countries, which increases the generalisability of our results to these settings where levels of CHD are high and continue to increase. 
Quality of evidenceAlthough the reporting of methods has improved in recent trials, lack of reporting key methodological aspects made it difficult to assess the overall methodological quality and risk of possible bias of the evidence. 
