Interventions for preventing weight gain after smoking cessation
What is the best way to avoid putting on weight after stopping smoking?  
Key messages 
We are not certain which programmes or treatments work best to help people avoid gaining weight in the long term (up to 12 months) when stopping smoking, or how they affect success in stopping smoking. This is because the evidence shows varied and unclear effects on weight gain. Further studies should continue to look at how to limit weight gain in people who are stopping smoking. Future studies of new medicines to help people stop smoking should also measure changes in their weight.  
 Stopping smoking and weight gain 
If you smoke, the best thing you can do for your health is to stop. But people often put on weight when they stop smoking, usually in the first few months of stopping. Gaining weight might undermine some of the benefits of stopping smoking, and might also affect  the motivation of some people  trying to stop smoking. 
 What did we want to find out?  
Some programmes to help people stop smoking specifically target weight control. Other ways to help people stop smoking might also affect their weight; these include: exercise programmes, taking medicines, and using nicotine replacement therapy (NRT). 
We wanted to find out the best ways to stop weight gain when stopping smoking. 
What did we do? 
In this update of a previously‐published review, we searched for studies that tested: 
‐ specific programmes for weight control while stopping smoking; 
‐ other ways to help people stop smoking, if those studies also measured weight change. 
We were interested in:
‐ how many people stopped smoking for six months or 12 months; 
‐ people's weight at the end of treatment, then after six months and after 12 months.   
What did we find? 
We found 116 studies in total: 
37 studies of specific programmes for weight control for people stopping smoking (21 new studies for this update); and 83 studies of other ways to help people stop smoking (27 new studies for this update). Four of these studies contributed to both. 
The 37 studies of specific programmes tested behavioural programmes, including dieting, to manage weight in 11,514 people trying to stop smoking. Some of the behavioural programmes were acceptance‐based, in which people also learn self‐regulation skills (for example, how to deal with cravings) to help them keep to the behaviours needed to lose weight. Most studies (27) were done in the USA and others took place in Australia, Canada, China and Europe.  
