Impact of computed tomography (CT) on lung cancer screening
Background 
Lung cancer is the most common cause of cancer‐related death worldwide. Lung cancer survival is significantly dependent on when a person is diagnosed with the disease. It is essential to detect the disease as early as possible by radiography (chest x‐ray) or by computed tomography (CT) scan, which is a more detailed type of radiography where multiple images of the lung are taken. The aim of this review was to gather information on the use of CT scan to detect lung cancer earlier and to find out if early detection of lung cancer reduces death from lung cancer. We also evaluated potential harms that can occur from using CT to screen for lung cancer, such as additional investigations and their related complications. 
Description of included trials 
The evidence is current to 31 July 2021. We included 11 trials, with a total of 94,445 participants. The trials came from the USA and Europe. The earliest trial started in 1991, and the most recent started in 2011. The participants were adults over the age of 40. The frequency of screening with CT ranged from yearly to more than 2.5 years. 
Key findings 
Eight of the trials (91,122 participants) were included in the main outcome analysis of lung cancer‐related mortality. In people over 40 years with significant smoking exposure, CT screening reduced deaths from lung cancer by 21%, with 226 people needing to undergo screening to prevent one death from lung cancer. We also found that deaths from any cause (including lung cancer) were less with CT screening. However, the effect was much lower (only 5% reduction in risk). Lung cancer was detected more frequently in the group of people who had CT screening compared with no screening. However, CT scans can induce false‐positive scans (a test that is positive or indeterminate for lung cancer, when the person does not actually have lung cancer). We found that false‐positive results were more common among people who were screened with CT than chest x‐ray. Because of that, those that underwent CT screening had more tests to investigate both cancer and non‐cancer‐related diseases. Screening also implies a risk of detecting lung cancers that may have never progressed to cause harm to the person (this is referred to as overdiagnosis). The risk of lung cancer overdiagnosis with CT screening was estimated to be 18%. 
