Introducing salt solution into the womb (amnioinfusion) to reduce complications associated with pregnancy fluid and sac infection (chorioamnionitis) 
What is the issue? 
Chrioamnionitis is an infection of the fluid and sac surrounding the baby in the womb. This is usually managed with antibiotics and by delivering the baby. An additional method suggested is to infuse a salt solution into the womb either via a needle through the mother's abdomen (transabdominal) or a catheter via the mother's vagina (transcervical). The theory is that this may have a beneficial flushing or diluting effect on the infecting organisms. 
Why is this important? 
Chorioamnionitis may lead to serious complications such as infection of the baby or of the mother. Any effective additional method of treatment would be useful. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 6 July 2016 and only found one randomised controlled trial (which reported data from a total of 34 women). Data were available for 17 women who received transcervical amnioinfusion and 17 women who did not. All of the women received paracetamol and antibiotics and they also had a special type of catheter inserted into the cervix to measure information about their contractions (i.e. how often the contractions occur, how long they lasted and how strong they were). 
The trial was considered to be at a high risk of bias overall, due to small numbers, inconsistency in the reporting and lack of information on blinding. Given the small sample size, the power to show differences between the two groups was thus small, and no differences were shown for the review's main outcomes:infection of the mother's womb after the birth (low‐quality evidence); infection of the baby (low‐quality evidence); caesarean section (low‐quality evidence); duration of antibiotic treatment; nor duration of hospital stay. The mother's temperature at delivery, which was not a pre‐defined outcome for our review, was lower in the women who received amnioinfusion, by 0.38 °C (with a likely range of 0.74 lower to 0.02 lower). The outcomedeath or severe illness in the baby was not reported, nor did the study report on the number of babies with a low Apgar score after they were born (a low Apgar score could indicate that the baby is in need of medical attention). Similarly, the majority of other outcomes listed in this review were not reported in the included study. 
We did not identify any studies that looked at introducing the solution through the mother's abdomen (transabdominal route). 
What does this mean? 
There is not enough evidence to support the use of amnioinfusion for chorioamnionitis in clinical practice. We suggest that the reduction in temperature may have been in part due to a direct cooling effect of the infused fluid, and that further research is justified to determine whether such a cooling effect may be beneficial for the baby. 
