Outpatient psychological therapy for adults with anorexia
Why is this review important? 
Anorexia nervosa is a severe and disabling mental health disorder of self starvation. In the general population the lifetime prevalence of anorexia nervosa may be as high as 5 in 100 women. About one in 10 people with anorexia nervosa is male. Psychological therapies are the main treatment and most people are treated as outpatients. A number of different types of therapy are used, from dynamic (where past issues are explored) to very directive cognitive‐behavioural therapies (where specific advice is given and people are required to keep records of their eating behaviour). It is important to know which psychological therapy is most likely to help people recover. This review aimed to assess evidence about the effects of individual psychological therapy (therapy provided to one person as opposed to a group) delivered in outpatient settings to older adolescents and adults with anorexia nervosa. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
This review will be of interest to people with lived experience of anorexia nervosa and people involved in their care. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We used search databases to ﬁnd randomised controlled studies of individual psychological therapy delivered in outpatient settings to older adolescents and adults with anorexia nervosa (completed up to July 16 2014). We included 10 trials that covered 599 people with anorexia nervosa. These trials had some limitations: they were small and often lost a lot of people. The investigators and people involved usually knew which treatment group they were in, which may have affected how they reported results. The trials used different types of psychological therapies. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
There was a limited amount of very low‐quality evidence to suggest that people might do better when receiving focal psychodynamic therapy compared to no treatment or treatment as usual. With one exception, we found little difference between specific psychological therapies. Most therapies appeared as acceptable as any other approach, except for dietary advice which had a 100% non‐completion rate in one small trial. Because of the risk of bias and limitations of studies, notably small sample sizes, we can draw no specific conclusions about the effects of specific individual psychological therapies for anorexia nervosa in adults or older adolescents. 
What should happen next? 
We need more large multicentre randomised controlled trials of commonly‐used psychological therapies in older adolescents and adults with anorexia nervosa. 
