Management of faecal incontinence and constipation in adults with central nervous system diseases 
Individuals with central nervous system disease or injury have a much higher risk of loss of bowel control and severe constipation than other people. This is called neurogenic bowel dysfunction (NBD). It can be very difficult to treat constipation without causing bowel leakage, or to prevent bowel leakage without causing constipation. The time spent on emptying the bowel is nearly always much greater for these individuals. Bowel problems like this cause a lot of anxiety and distress and can reduce the quality of life of those who suffer them. This review of research about NBD could be of interest to individuals with any damage to the central nervous system caused by disease or injury, or present at birth, which has a long term effect on how their bowel works. 
While there is a great deal of information on the causes of NBD, there are few studies that focus on how to practically manage the problem. Currently the usual advice is to have a good fluid intake, a balanced diet, as much physical exercise as is practical and a regular planned bowel routine. A bowel routine may include use of oral laxative medicines, suppositories or enemas; abdominal massage; digital rectal stimulation and digital evacuation of stool. The steps used will depend on the needs of each individual and some degree of trial and error is usually needed to achieve a satisfactory routine. 
Only research studies where participants were allocated to either the control group (who received either no intervention or usual care) or the treatment group by chance (called randomisation) were included in this review as these studies provide the most reliable evidence. Fifteen new studies have been added in this update. Five have been removed because the drugs the studies reported on (cisapride and tegaserod) have been withdrawn from the market and are no longer available. Most of the 20 randomised studies in this review included very small numbers of participants and the study reports did not always give the information needed to be sure that the study findings were reliable. 
Some oral laxatives were found to improve bowel function including psyllium, a stool‐bulking laxative (one study), and an isosmotic macrogol (one study), which were both studied in individuals with Parkinson's disease. Some suppositories and micro‐enemas used to help the bowel to open produced faster results than others (three studies) and the timing of suppository use may affect the response of the bowel (one study). Digital evacuation of stool may be more effective than oral or rectal medication (one study). The use of transanal irrigation in individuals with spinal cord injury improved bowel control, constipation and quality of life measures (one study). Three studies found that abdominal massage was helpful in reducing constipation. One study found that patients may benefit from even one educational contact with a nurse. 
This review shows that there is still remarkably little research on this common problem which is so important to patients. The research evidence found by the review is generally very poor because the way the studies were carried out and reported means that the results are not reliable. It is not possible to make recommendations for care based on these studies. Managing NBD will continue to rely on trial and error until more high quality studies with larger numbers of participants and which examine the most important aspects of this problem are carried out. 
