Alternative or additional agents to platelet transfusions to prevent bleeding in people with blood cancers receiving intensive treatment 
Review question 
What is the best way to prevent bleeding for people being treated with intensive chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation for blood, or bone marrow cancers? Should we use platelet transfusions (the current standard treatment), or use other agents instead of (or as well as) platelet transfusions. 
Background 
Approximately one in eight cancers arise from the blood, bone marrow, or lymph nodes. These cancers are divided into many different types that are treated differently. Examples include acute myeloid leukaemia and lymphoma. Some of these cancers can be cured with high‐dose (intensive) chemotherapy or stem cell transplantation. These treatments destroy the cancer but can also damage the normal blood‐producing cells. One consequence of this is a reduction in the number of platelets in the blood. Platelets are essential to make the blood clot normally. Consequently, people receiving these treatments are vulnerable to bleeding until their platelets increase in number. 
Platelet transfusions (taken from a blood donor) are often given to try to prevent people with blood cancer from bleeding. We do not know how well these transfused platelets work. We know that there are risks from platelet transfusion, such as transmission of infections. It is possible that there are better ways to prevent bleeding in this setting. In this review, we examined whether other agents could be used instead of (or as well as) platelet transfusion to prevent bleeding. We also assessed the risk of serious side effects, such as forming abnormal blood clots (thromboembolic events). Potential agents include artificial platelets, platelet‐poor plasma, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII, desmopressin and thrombopoietin mimetics. Terms and treatments are described in the glossary in the 'Published notes' section of this review). 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2016. We identified 16 clinical trials: 10 completed trials and six ongoing trials. We included the 10 completed trials in this review. Six trials included adults with acute myeloid leukaemia undergoing intensive chemotherapy, two trials included adults with lymphoma undergoing intensive chemotherapy and two trials included adults undergoing allogeneic stem cell transplantation. The age range of participants was between 16 and 81 years. Men and women were equally well represented. All trials took place in high‐income countries. The manufacturer of the agent that was under investigation sponsored eight trials, and two trials did not report their source of funding. We identified nine trials (536 participants) assessing thrombopoietin mimetics and one trial (18 participants) assessing platelet‐poor plasma. These trials were conducted between 1974 and 2015. No trial assessed artificial platelets, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII or desmopressin). 
Key results 
For adults treated with thrombopoietin mimetics, we are very uncertain whether there is a difference in the number of participants with: any bleeding, risk of life‐threatening bleeding, number of platelet transfusions, overall risk of death or thromboembolic events because the quality of the evidence was very low. We found no trials of thrombopoietin mimetics that looked at: the number of days on which bleeding occurred, time from start of trial to first bleed or quality of life. 
For adults treated with platelet‐poor plasma, we are very uncertain whether there is a difference in the number of participants with: any bleeding or risk of life‐threatening bleeding. We found no trials that looked at: the number of days on which bleeding occurred, time from start of trial to first bleeding episode, number of platelet transfusions, overall risk of death, thromboembolic events or quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was very low, making it difficult to draw conclusions or make recommendations regarding the usefulness and safety of thrombopoietin mimetics or platelet‐poor plasma. There was no trial evidence for artificial platelets, fibrinogen concentrate, recombinant activated factor VII or desmopressin. 
