Nifedipine for primary dysmenorrhoea (period pain)
Review question 
Is nifedipine safe and effective for the relief of pain associated with primary dysmenorrhoea (also known as period pain or menstrual cramps)? 
Background 
Primary dysmenorrhoea is pain associated with menstruation (periods) due to cramping of the uterus (womb). It is a common condition in women of reproductive age, and can have a significant impact on normal activities. Nifedipine is a medication that is effective at slowing contractions of the uterus in pregnant women with preterm labour. This review addresses whether nifedipine also helps with relieving uterine contractions during menstruation. 
Study characteristics 
We found three randomised controlled trials (experiments where each person has an equal chance of being chosen to receive the treatment or a comparator). They compared the use of nifedipine with placebo (dummy pill) for primary dysmenorrhoea. A total of 106 women were included in the trials; however only information from two trials containing a total of 66 women was available for analysis. In one of these trials, randomisation was very unbalanced between groups: only five women received placebo whereas 19 received nifedipine. Our search for trials was done on 31 January 2019, and repeated on 5 June 2020 and 25 November 2021. One trial was identified through discussion with colleagues. 
Key results 
Overall we are uncertain of the effectiveness of nifedipine for relief of pain in primary dysmenorrhoea. Nifedipine may be effective for overall pain relief, and for obtaining the subsets of "good" or "excellent" pain relief. Caution is needed in drawing conclusions from this as the analysis is based on very low participant numbers. In the study where the question was asked, women who received nifedipine were more likely to prefer to continue taking the medication for future cycles than women taking the placebo (12/19 women taking nifedipine, versus 0/5 women taking placebo). In one study, participants taking nifedipine who were usually severely incapacitated by periods had a significant improvement in the ability to carry out daily activities compared to those assigned to placebo. In both trials where adverse effects were assessed there was a high, and similar, rate of adverse physical symptoms associated with menstruation both in women taking nifedipine and those taking placebo. 
