What is the diagnostic accuracy of teledermatology for the diagnosis of skin cancer in adults? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are different types of skin cancer. Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms and it is important to identify it early so that it can be removed. If it is not recognised when first brought to the attention of doctors (also known as a false‐negative test result) treatment can be delayed resulting in the melanoma spreading to other organs in the body and possibly causing early death. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) are usually localised skin cancers, although cSCC can spread to other parts of the body and BCC can cause disfigurement if not recognised early. Calling something a skin cancer when it is not really a skin cancer (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery and other investigations that can cause stress and worry to the patient. Making the correct diagnosis is important. Mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether teledermatology is accurate enough to identify which people with skin lesions need to be referred to see a specialist dermatologist (a doctor concerned with disease of the skin) and who can be safely reassured that their lesion (damage or change of the skin) is not malignant. We included 22 studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
Teledermatology means sending pictures of skin lesions or rashes to a specialist for advice on diagnosis or management. It is a way for primary care doctors (general practitioners (GPs)) to get an opinion from a specialist dermatologist without having to refer patients through the normal referral pathway. Teledermatology can involve sending photographs or magnified images of a skin lesion taken with a special camera (dermatoscope) to a skin specialist to look at or it might involve immediate discussion about a skin lesion between a GP and a skin specialist using videoconferencing. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included 22 studies, 16 studies comparing teledermatology diagnoses to the final lesion diagnoses (diagnostic accuracy) for 4057 lesions and 879 malignant cases and five studies comparing teledermatology decisions to the decisions that would be made with the patient present (referral accuracy) for 1449 lesions and 270 'positive' cases. 
The studies were very different from each other in terms of the types of people with suspicious skin cancer lesions included and the type of teledermatology used. A single reliable estimate of the accuracy of teledermatology could not be made. For the correct diagnosis of a lesion to be a skin cancer, data suggested that less than 7% of malignant skin lesions were missed by teledermatology. Study results were too variable to tell us how many people would be referred unnecessarily for a specialist dermatology appointment following a teledermatology consultation. Without access to teledermatology services however, most of the lesions included in these studies would likely be referred to a dermatologist. 
How reliable are the results of the studies of this review? 
In the included studies, the final diagnosis of skin cancer was made by lesion biopsy (taking a small sample of the lesion so it could be examined under a microscope) and the absence of skin cancer was confirmed by biopsy or by follow‐up over time to make sure the skin lesion remained negative for melanoma. This is likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether people really had skin cancer. In a few studies, a diagnosis of no skin cancer was made by a skin specialist rather than biopsy. This is less likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether people really had skin cancer*. Poor reporting of what was done in the study made it difficult for us to say how reliable the study results are. Selecting some patients from specialist clinics instead of primary care along with different ways of doing teledermatology were common problems. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Studies were conducted in: Europe (64%), North America (18%), South America (9%) or Oceania (9%). The average age of people who were studied was 52 years; however, several studies included at least some people under the age of 16 years. The percentage of people with skin cancer ranged between 2% and 88% with an average of 30%, which is much higher than would be observed in a primary care setting in the UK. 
