Psychological interventions to foster resilience in healthcare students
BackgroundHealthcare students (e.g. medical, nursing, midwifery, paramedic, psychology, physical therapy, or social work students) have a high academic work load, are required to pass examinations and are exposed to human suffering. This can adversely affect their physical and mental health. Interventions to protect them against such stresses are known as resilience interventions. Previous systematic reviews suggest that resilience interventions can help students cope with stress and protect them against adverse consequences on their physical and mental health. 
Review questionDo psychological interventions designed to foster resilience improve resilience, mental health, and other factors associated with resilience in healthcare students? 
Search datesThe evidence is current to June 2019. The results of an updated search of four key databases in June 2020 have not yet been included in the review. 
Study characteristicsWe found 30 randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to either an intervention or a control group by a procedure similar to tossing a coin). The studies evaluated a range of resilience interventions in participants aged on average between 19 and 38 years. 
Healthcare students were the focus of 22 studies, with a total of 1315 participants (not specified for two studies). Eight studies included mixed samples (1365 participants) of healthcare students and non‐healthcare students. 
Eight of the included studies compared a mindfulness‐based resilience intervention (i.e. an intervention fostering attention on the present moment, without judgements) versus unspecific comparators (e.g. wait‐list control receiving the training after a waiting period). Most interventions were performed in groups (17/30), with high training intensity of more than 12 hours or sessions (11/30), and were delivered face‐to‐face (i.e. with direct contact and face‐to‐face meetings between the intervention provider and the participants; 17/30). 
The included studies were funded by different sources (e.g. universities, foundations), or a combination of various sources (four studies). Seven studies did not specify a potential funder, and three studies received no funding support. 
Certainty of the evidenceA number of things reduce the certainty about whether resilience interventions are effective. These include limitations in the methods of the studies, different results across studies, the small number of participants in most studies, and the fact that the findings are limited to certain participants, interventions and comparators. 
Key resultsResilience training for healthcare students may improve resilience, and may reduce symptoms of anxiety and stress immediately after the end of treatment. Resilience interventions do not appear to reduce depressive symptoms or to improve well‐being. However, the evidence from this review is limited and very uncertain. This means that we currently have very little confidence that resilience interventions make a difference to these outcomes and that further research is very likely to change the findings. 
