Interventions for babies from birth to one month of life for preventing cerebral palsy: an overview of Cochrane Systematic Reviews 
What is the issue? 
'Cerebral palsy' is a term that includes a group of conditions affecting people's ability to move; it is the most common physical disability in childhood. Cerebral palsy is usually due to events before, during, or after childbirth that lead to injury to babies' developing brains. No single cause of cerebral palsy is known. For many children, the cause of cerebral palsy is unclear, but many risk factors are known. The biggest risk factor is preterm birth (birth before 37 weeks of pregnancy). Other risk factors during the neonatal period (birth to one month of life) include prolonged loss of oxygen during birth; brain injury; strokes or seizures; disorders of the heart, blood vessels, airways, and lungs; prolonged mechanical assistance for breathing; some infections; jaundice (yellow discolouration of the skin and eyes due to excess bilirubin in the blood); and some syndromes or abnormalities of chromosomes (structures that hold genes). 
Why is this important? 
As there are different risk factors for and causes of cerebral palsy, it is likely that different interventions may be needed to prevent cerebral palsy by reducing risk factors. This overview summarises evidence about preventing cerebral palsy that has been presented in Cochrane Systematic Reviews of interventions during the neonatal period. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 27 November 2016, and identified 43 Cochrane Reviews assessing interventions during the neonatal period that reported some information on cerebral palsy. These Reviews were all of moderate to high quality, but the quality of the evidence about cerebral palsy ranged from very low to high. Three Reviews assessed interventions for newborn babies who may have had a lack of oxygen at or around the time of birth; 33 Reviews assessed interventions for babies born preterm or at low birthweight; and seven Reviews assessed interventions for other groups of newborn babies at risk of injury to their brains (such as newborn babies with low blood sugar at birth). 
