Prostatic urethral lift for the treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia 
Review question 
Does prostatic urethral lift (PUL) improve bothersome urinary symptoms without unwanted side effects in men with an enlarged prostate? 
Background 
Prostate enlargement is common in men as they get older and may cause difficulty with urination. PUL is a new procedure to relieve urinary symptoms such as having to urinate often, having to strain or not being able to empty the bladder completely. Unwanted side effects of treatment may be problems with erections, ejaculation or needing to be treated again. PUL works by placing little hooks that compress the tissue of the prostate to open up the urinary stream without the need to cut or remove any tissue. We did this review to compare PUL to other surgical treatments in men with an enlarged prostate and bothersome urinary symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
We included two randomized controlled studies (clinical trials where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 297 men comparing PUL to sham surgery (participants are made to believe they received treatment, while in reality they did not) or transurethral resection of prostate (TURP: removing the excess prostate growth using a camera and an electrically activated resecting loop inserted via the penis). The average age of the participants was 65.6 years. 
Key results 
Compared to sham surgery up to three months, PUL may improve urinary symptoms and likely improves quality of life without additional unwanted side effects after surgery. In the short term, there were no additional surgeries because PUL did not work. PUL likely does not make erections or ejaculation worse. 
Compared to TURP up to 24 months, PUL may be less effective in relieving urinary symptoms, but result in similar quality of life. PUL may preserve ejaculation, but may have less unwanted effects on erections than TURP. However, we are either very uncertain or have no evidence about serious unwanted side effects or the need for additional treatment after surgery. 
