Vitamin E supplementation in people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We wanted to know what effects, if any, vitamin E supplementation (at any dose) has on how often people with cystic fibrosis have health problems due to vitamin E deficiency. 
Background 
Approximately 85% to 90% of people with cystic fibrosis do not produce enough enzymes in their pancreas and are not able to absorb fat when digesting food; they are also likely to have problems absorbing the fat‐soluble vitamins A, D, E and K. If levels of vitamin E are too low, this may cause blood disorders and problems with the nervous system, with memory and with thinking skills. 
Search date 
We last searched for evidence on 20 July 2020.
Study characteristics 
We identified four studies including 141 participants; two of these were in children (aged six months to 14.5 years) and two did not specify the age of the participants. Those taking part in the studies received different forms of vitamin E supplements (either water‐soluble or fat‐soluble), placebo (a substance containing no medication) or no supplements. Three studies stated that the treatment for each person was chosen at random, but one study only said the people were split into different groups. 
Key results 
Water‐soluble vitamin E 
Evidence from one study (45 participants) showed that supplementation may increase vitamin E levels in the blood after six months. Similar results were seen at the earlier time points of one month (two studies, 32 participants) and three three months (one study, 45 participants). Only one study (45 participants) reported weight at one and six months, but showed no difference between supplementation and placebo at either time point. 
Fat‐soluble vitamin E 
Two studies (36 participants) reported higher levels of serum vitamin E after one month of fat‐soluble vitamin E supplements compared with no treatment, but a different study (36 participants) did not find any difference between supplementation and no treatment after three months. 
None of the studies in either comparison reported results for our planned outcomes of vitamin E total lipid ratio, the incidence of vitamin E‐specific deficiency disorders, lung function or quality of life. 
As the studies used different forms of supplements and different doses, it was difficult to combine the results and apply them to the wider cystic fibrosis population. The results showed that vitamin E supplementation may lead to an improvement in vitamin E levels in people with cystic fibrosis, but the quality of the evidence was low. 
Future studies should look at more specific outcomes such as vitamin E status, lung function and nutritional status, especially in people already receiving treatment with pancreatic enzymes and vitamin E supplements. They could also look at the best level of vitamin E supplements needed to be most clinically effective. 
