Nidotherapy for schizophrenia
Nidotherapy (from the Latin ‘nidus’ or ‘nest’) aims at identifying the need for and making changes to a person’s environment and surroundings. It works alongside other treatments to make improvements to a person’s well being, housing, money management, personal relationships, work and other factors. The aim of nidotherapy is not to change the person (whereas other psychological therapies often aim to make changes in an individual’s behaviour, emotions and thinking) but to create a better ‘fit’ between the environment and the individual. As a consequence the individual may improve, but this is not a direct result of treatment but because a more harmonious relationship has been created with the environment. Benefits of nidotherapy may include improvements in people’s relationships, self‐esteem, taking their medication, mental health and generally creating a better life situation. If environmental factors or someone’s surroundings are at all responsible for causing illness and relapse, then nidotherapists and people with schizophrenia can identify these factors together to try and reduce the number and severity of relapses. 
This review includes one small pilot study with 52 participants. The study compared nidotherapy with standard care versus standard care alone and lasted 18 months. Findings suggest some limited evidence that those who received nidotherapy might experience a slight improvement in social functioning or personal relationships, mental state and may spend less time as inpatients in hospital over the course of 12 months, but there is no information concerning the appropriateness of this for the individual. However, these limited findings need to be treated with considerable caution. The degree of any possible improvements that come from taking part in nidotherapy remain unclear due to the single study’s small sample size, incomplete evidence and risk of bias. No evidence is available on the effect of nidotherapy on general functioning, quality of life, taking medication, satisfaction with treatment, employment status or adverse effects. Further research is required to fill this gap in knowledge about the effectiveness, benefits and possible hazards of nidotherapy. Until such a time, people with mental health problems, health professionals, managers and policymakers should consider this new therapy an experimental one. 
