Single or combination chemotherapy during preoperative treatment for rectal cancer
Background 
Rectal cancer accounts for one‐third of all cancers of the large intestine and is an important cause of death worldwide. Radiotherapy and surgery have improved results, but there is still a high proportion of people where the cancer spreads to other parts of the body (distal metastases). In the period before surgery (preoperative period), anti‐cancer drugs (chemotherapy) are given to help destroy smaller tumours and enhance the effects of radiotherapy (high‐energy radiation that targets the cancer). Chemotherapy also has benefits on organs other than the rectum, making the use of these drugs highly desirable in the preoperative period. Therefore, it is possible that adding a second drug to the chemotherapy regimen (e.g. oxaliplatin) may increase these benefits further. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical trials where people were randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) reviewing the benefit of two types of chemotherapy regimens, combined with radiotherapy, given before surgical treatment for rectal cancer. We considered a regimen with a single drug (e.g. fluoropyrimidine) compared with a regimen with two drugs (e.g. fluoropyrimidine plus oxaliplatin). The searches were conducted in January 2015. 
Key results 
We included four RCTs with 3875 people with operable rectal cancer, who were treated preoperatively either one or two chemotherapy drugs along with radiotherapy. People received either fluoropyrimidine alone (the control group) or fluoropyrimidine plus oxaliplatin (the intervention, or experimental, group). 
Only one trial reported the time people were alive with or without cancer (overall survival) and the time people were alive and free of cancer (disease‐free survival). This trial found no differences between the two chemotherapy regimens. All four trials reported on whether there were still signs of cancer at the surgery site (no signs means complete pathological response, and, therefore, removal of all the cancer) and there was evidence that this was better with the two‐drug regimen. However, the two‐drug regimen was associated with more side effects (early toxicity). These side effects were manageable in most people but they were probably the reason why more people carried on taking the treatment in the one‐drug control group than in the two‐drug intervention group. There were no differences between groups in the number of deaths within 60 days of surgery or illness after the operation. 
Quality of the evidence 
There evidence that people with operable rectal cancer who receive a combination chemotherapy before surgery have no improvements in overall survival or disease‐free survival, but the quality of this evidence was very low, and, therefore, may not be reliable. There is better evidence to suggest that the two‐drug combination chemotherapy with oxaliplatin improved local tumour control, but that it also caused more side effects that could make the treatment unacceptable to those receiving treatment. Given the lack of evidence on survival, we cannot draw robust conclusions, and, therefore, cannot make any recommendations as to the use of these regimens in clinical practice. Further research on the impact on survival is needed before such conclusions can be drawn. 
