The role of bortezomib treatment for patients with multiple myeloma
Background 
Multiple myeloma is a type of blood cancer, affecting plasma cells inside the bone marrow. Bortezomib is a type of treatment for myeloma called a proteasome inhibitor. Proteasomes are enzymes found in all cells and play an important role in cell function and growth. Cancer cells are more sensitive to the effects of bortezomib, causing cancer cells to die or not grow any further. 
Study characteristics 
We wanted to know the benefits and harms from bortezomib treatment for myeloma. We searched medical databases and trial registries until January 2016. We included studies of bortezomib compared to no bortezomib, with either the same or different background therapy or compared to other drugs. Studies of newly diagnosed and relapsed myeloma were included as well as those that compared different doses, ways of administering bortezomib and treatment schedules. 
Key results 
We found 16 studies involving 5626 myeloma patients. The results of this review suggest that bortezomib can lead to better survival, a longer time without progression and better response rates compared to those not receiving bortezomib. Treatment with bortezomib causes a number of side effects including: low levels of some blood cells; gastro‐intestinal effects such as constipation, diarrhoea, nausea and vomiting; nerve pain and tingling in hands and feet, as well as infection. A greater risk of heart problems was seen in one of the comparison groups studied. Risk of death from bortezomib treatment was uncertain in either group analysed. Only four studies assessed quality of life and could not be analysed together. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged quality of the evidence as high to moderate for mortality or number of deaths, whereas it was considered low‐quality evidence for progression‐free survival. the quality of evidence for adverse events was highly variable (low to high). For assessment of treatment‐related death, there was no evidence of a difference, with low‐quality evidence in one comparison (bortezomib compared to no bortezomib with the same background therapy) and very low‐quality evidence in comparison two (bortezomib compared to no bortezomib with different background therapy or compared to other drugs). 
