Diet and exercise interventions for preventing excessive weight gain during pregnancy
The issue 
A large proportion of women gain more weight than is recommended during pregnancy. Excessive weight gain in pregnancy is associated with complications such as diabetes, high blood pressure, caesarean section, and large babies. This review aimed to determine whether diet or exercise measures,or both, could prevent excessive gestational weight gain (GWG), and if they were safe. 
How we conducted the review 
This is an update of a review first published in 2012 and is current to November 2014 and included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) only in the updated review. We grouped studies according to the types of interventions, and according to the types of participants, i.e. normal weight women (the low‐risk group), all pregnant women (the mixed‐risk group), and overweight or obese women, or women with or at risk of gestational diabetes (the high‐risk group). 
Findings 
We included 65 randomised controlled trials, of which 49 trials involving 11,444 women contributed data. Twenty studies were at a moderate‐to high‐risk of bias. The diets tested were low sugar (low glycaemic load), diabetic, low‐calorie or low‐fat diets, with or without food diaries and regular weighing. The exercise interventions were most often of moderate intensity and involving regular walking, dance or aerobic classes. The comparison or control group generally received standard care. Overall, weight management interventions led to a reduction in the number of women gaining excess weight by a fifth (20%; range 13% to 27%) over the pregnancy. We considered this evidence to be high‐quality. 
Overall, we found no clear benefits of all diet or exercise interventions, or both, on other outcomes including pre‐eclampsia, caesarean section, preterm birth, and having a baby weighing more than 4 kg (macrosomia), although we could not rule out a small effect on caesarean section (5% reduction) and macrosomia (7% reduction), particularly for women receiving combined diet and exercise counselling interventions. There was a tendency for supervised exercise‐only interventions to reduce macrosomia too. Maternal hypertension (high blood pressure) was also reduced with the interventions. We found no clear differences between study groups with regard to most infant complications, except that for high‐risk women the babies born to the women in the intervention group were less likely to experience breathing difficulties (respiratory distress syndrome) than babies in the control group. This evidence was mostly of a moderate quality. 
