Rituximab for treating inhibitors in people with inherited severe hemophilia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence available to see if rituximab is effective and safe when treating clotting factor inhibitors in people with severe hemophilia. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Hemophilia A and B are inherited conditions in which there is either reduced levels (or none at all) of factor VIII (hemophilia A) or factor IX (hemophilia B) in the blood. In severe forms there are undetectable levels of these factors (less than 0.01 international units (IU) per milliliter). People with hemophilia are at risk of bleeding events which can occur spontaneously or after trauma or invasive medical procedures. Therefore, they need to be treated with factor concentrates, either in reaction to these events or preventatively. Unfortunately, about 30% of people with severe hemophilia A and 1% to 6% of people with severe hemophilia B can develop antibodies (inhibitors) against factor VIII or factor IX, because the factors are not recognized by the immune system. The development of inhibitors is the main complication of hemophilia treatment, because their presence reduces or cancels out the beneficial effects of replacement therapy, making it very difficult to control bleeding. Moreover, when inhibitors are present, it is impossible to start preventative treatment with factor VIII or factor IX concentrates. Therefore, it is important to eliminate the inhibitors and allow treatment to proceed successfully. The 'off‐label' use (currently unapproved for treating people with hemophilia) of rituximab, has shown in some studies an effect on eliminating inhibitors in people with hemophilia. Therefore, we wanted to see whether using rituximab was better than the standard treatment or other therapies without rituximab, and whether it is safe, and could save these people from life‐threatening hemorrhage and huge financial expense. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 19 March 2020.
Key results 
We did not find any randomized controlled trials assessing rituximab in people with severe hemophilia. Well‐designed controlled trials are needed to assess the benefits and risks of using rituximab in people with hemophilia. Until controlled trials are published, only limited and low‐level evidence, based on individual cases, can guide physicians in making clinical decisions. 
