Biocompatible dialysis fluids for peritoneal dialysis
What is the issue? 
Peritoneal dialysis is a form of dialysis therapy for people with kidney failure delivered at home. Patients are required to use peritoneal dialysis solutions to perform the dialysis by putting solution in their abdomen. Peritoneal dialysis uses the lining of the abdomen called the “peritoneal membrane” as a filter, across which toxins and fluids are removed from the body. The longevity of peritoneal dialysis can be limited by peritoneal membrane injury, which is partly as a result of biologically 'unfriendly' peritoneal dialysis solutions, which are acidic and consist of high levels of glucose and toxic glucose breakdown products. To overcome these hurdles, biocompatible peritoneal dialysis solutions (i.e. with a neutral pH and low levels of glucose breakdown products or with a glucose‐alternative like icodextrin) have been manufactured with the aim of providing patient benefit. 
What did we do? 
We conducted a review of the literature to examine the benefits and harms from the use of biocompatible peritoneal dialysis solutions. 
What did we find? 
We identified 42 studies (3262 participants) examining the effects of these solutions on patient outcomes. When compared to conventional peritoneal dialysis solutions, we found that neutral pH, low glucose breakdown product peritoneal dialysis solutions resulted in better preservation of a patient's own kidney function including urine output. Patients who received non‐glucose based (icodextrin) peritoneal dialysis solutions achieved greater fluid removal with their dialysis and were 70% less likely to experience uncontrolled episodes of fluid overload. No significant harms were identified with any of the biocompatible peritoneal dialysis solutions. Many of the studies were limited by small size, short follow‐up duration, suboptimal methodological quality, and inconsistent reporting of outcomes. Consequently, the effects of biocompatible peritoneal dialysis solutions on the length of time that a patient is able to either remain on peritoneal dialysis or stay alive are uncertain. 
