Local treatment of non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer with Bacillus Calmette‐Guérin with or without interferon‐alpha 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of local treatment of the bladder with Bacillus Calmette‐Guérin (BCG) and interferon (IFN)‐alpha (α) for cancer of the superficial layers of the bladder (known as non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer). 
Background 
Bladder cancer is a common cancer worldwide. Bladder cancer that is non‐muscle invasive is often treated with resection (removal by surgery), but it has a high risk of recurring and progressing to more invasive disease with that treatment alone. Bacillus Calmette‐Guérin is a treatment that is commonly administered into the bladder after resection to reduce the risk of recurrence and progression. Some non‐randomised studies have shown that adding IFN‐α to BCG may further reduce these risks. We aimed to compare the effects of BCG with IFN‐α versus BCG alone administered into the bladder in the treatment of people with non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 25 August 2016. We included five studies with a total of 1231 participants with non‐muscle‐invasive bladder cancer. Four studies compared BCG given together with IFN‐α versus BCG alone. One study compared BCG alternating with IFN‐α versus BCG alone. The follow‐up period in the studies ranged from two months to nearly 20 years. 
Key results 
BCG combined with IFN‐α (four studies):We found very low‐quality evidence showing no clear difference in recurrence (four studies involving 925 participants) or progression (two studies involving 219 participants) between participants who received BCG combined with IFN‐α and those who received BCG alone. None of the studies reported on the important outcome of stopping treatment due to adverse events. There was also very low‐quality evidence showing no clear difference between groups for cancer‐specific mortality (one study, 99 participants). There were mixed findings for adverse events (two studies, 120 and 670 participants, respectively). 
