Intrathecal baclofen for treating spasticity in children with cerebral palsy
Spasticity, which is an increase in muscle tone, is the most common difficulty with movement seen in children with cerebral palsy. Baclofen is a medication which acts on receptors in the brain and spinal cord to reduce abnormal muscle tone. It has been used as an oral medication for many years. The disadvantages of oral administration are that only a small amount of the medication crosses the blood‐brain barrier before it can exert an effect, and that the dose is limited by the unwanted effect of excessive sedation. The administration of baclofen into the fluid surrounding the spinal cord overcomes these problems. This treatment is called intrathecal baclofen therapy and it is administered via a pump placed under the skin connected to a catheter which enters the membranes covering the spinal cord to deliver the baclofen directly into the fluid surrounding the spinal cord and brain. 
This review concludes that there is a small amount of evidence from studies performed to date that intrathecal baclofen is an effective treatment for reducing spasticity in children with cerebral palsy in the short‐term. The effect of intrathecal baclofen on spasticity in children with cerebral palsy over the long term is less clear. 
Two short‐term studies (by the same investigators) demonstrate a reduction in spasticity, but a single, longer term study shows minimal evidence for reduced spasticity with the use of intrathecal baclofen. Two further short‐term studies showed reduction in spasticity with the use of intrathecal baclofen, but the authors used inappropriate methods of analysing the data, so it is uncertain whether these results are valid. All these studies had a small number of participants, making the findings less reliable. 
The research also provides evidence from one short term study and one longer term study (again, by the same investigators), that intrathecal baclofen therapy improves the comfort, ease of care and some aspects of quality of life for children with cerebral palsy. However, the results of the longer term study may have been influenced by both the participants and the investigators being aware of whether they were receiving treatment or allocated to the control group. This same study found that intrathecal baclofen improves gross motor function a little in children with cerebral palsy, but again, these results may have been influenced by the way the study was conducted. 
Further evidence of the effectiveness of intrathecal baclofen for treating spasticity is needed from other investigators in order to validate these results. 
