Chlorpromazine dose for people with schizophrenia
Review question 
This review looks at the best dose of chlorpromazine for treating people with schizophrenia.
Background 
Schizophrenia is a serious mental illness affecting around 1% of the adult population worldwide. People with schizophrenia often hear voices or see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). The main treatment for these symptoms of schizophrenia are antipsychotic drugs. Chlorpromazine was one of the first antipsychotic drugs discovered to be effective in the treatment of schizophrenia during the 1950s. It still remains one of the most commonly used and inexpensive treatments even today. However, it also has serious side effects, such as blurred vision, a dry mouth, tremors or uncontrollable shaking, depression, muscle stiffness and restlessness. 
Study characteristics 
An updated search for relevant randomised controlled trials was run in October 2014, and again, in December 2016 and found one new study. Five studies have now been found that meet the review inclusion criteria. The included studies are all randomised, and investigate the effects of giving different doses of chlorpromazine to people with schizophrenia. The total number of participants was 585. 
Key results 
Chlorpromazine showed different effects at varying doses. Based on weak evidence, the effects on people’s mental health at low dosage and medium dosage are much the same. However, there are more side effects at medium dose. There is more improvement in people’s mental health at high dose compared to low dose. However, side effects are much more numerous and debilitating at high dose. In the past fifty years, low dose has been the favoured amount to use with patients. This change has come about gradually and is based on everyday experience and consensus rather than hard scientific evidence. Chlorpromazine is low‐cost and widely available. Despite its many side effects, chlorpromazine is likely to remain a benchmark or ‘gold standard’ drug and one of the most widely used treatments for schizophrenia worldwide. 
