Stitching versus no stitching of the tissue beneath the skin (subcutaneous tissue) for non‐childbirth surgery 
Surgeons cut the skin in most surgical operations. Most surgical wounds are sewn up at the end of the procedure. The skin is the outermost of many layers of tissue in the human body, with subcutaneous tissue just beneath. Stitching (suturing) subcutaneous tissue after surgery is controversial. Some surgeons recommend it, claiming this decreases wound complications, while others think it is unnecessary and may increase wound complications. We investigated whether subcutaneous tissue should be sutured after non‐childbirth surgery by searching the medical literature thoroughly (up to August 2013) for studies that compared subcutaneous suturing against no subcutaneous suturing. We included only randomised controlled trials ‐ which provide the best information ‐ reported in any language, published in any year, and with any number of participants. Two review authors independently identified trials and extracted information. 
We identified six randomised controlled trials that reported one or more of the outcomes we thought were important. There may have been flaws in trial conduct that could produce incorrect results. The six trials that provided data for this review included 815 participants (410 participants had subcutaneous closure of incisions and 405 participants did not). In the trials that reported the outcomes, overall 7% of participants developed superficial wound infection, 8% of participants developed superficial separation of wounds, and 8% of participants developed deeper separation of layers in both the groups but there was no clear evidence of a difference in incidence between the subcutaneous closure group and the no subcutaneous closure group. There was no clear evidence of a difference in the length of hospital stay between the groups. We do not know whether these results indicate that there is really no difference between subcutaneous closure and no subcutaneous closure, or that there are problems with study design that make it difficult to identify true differences between the two techniques. So significant benefits or harms of subcutaneous closure cannot be ruled out. Furthermore, no trial assessed the impact of subcutaneous closure on quality of life, long‐term patient outcomes (trial follow‐up periods varied between one week and two months after surgery) or financial implications to healthcare providers. There is currently no evidence to support or condemn subcutaneous closure after non‐childbirth surgery. Further well‐designed trials are necessary. 
