Antibiotic treatment for nontuberculous mycobacteria in people with cystic fibrosis 
Nontuberculous mycobacteria are bacteria that are in the same family as tuberculosis and are commonly found in the soil and water. These bacteria can be found in the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis and can cause their lung function to worsen. Although there are guidelines on which antibiotics to use to treat lung infection due to these bacteria, these recommendations are not specific for people with cystic fibrosis. It is also not clear which are the most effective antibiotics. The main purpose of this review was to determine whether treatment with different antibiotic combinations for nontuberculous mycobacterial infection would improve lung function or decrease the frequency of chest infections in people with cystic fibrosis. We found one randomized controlled trial but it included both people with and without cystic fibrosis and we could not get the information specifically about individuals with cystic fibrosis so could not include the information in this review. Until the time when such information is available, clinicians should follow the current guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of lung infections due to nontuberculous mycobacteria in the general population. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about using antibiotics to treat nontuberculous mycobacteria infection in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Nontuberculous mycobacteria are bacteria that are from the same family as tuberculosis and are commonly found in the soil and water. These bacteria can be found in the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis and may cause their lung function to worsen. Although there are guidelines on which antibiotics to use to treat lung infection due to these bacteria, these recommendations are not specifically for people with cystic fibrosis. It is also not clear which antibiotics work best. The main aim of this review was to show whether or not treating nontuberculous mycobacterial infection with different combinations of antibiotics improves lung function or decreases the frequency of chest infections in people with cystic fibrosis. 
