What is the most effective blood sugar range to guide treatment for women who develop gestational diabetes mellitus (GMD) in their pregnancy? 
What is the issue? 
Up to a quarter of pregnant women develop gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM) depending on their ethnicity and the diagnostic criteria used. GDM is evident as high blood sugar levels (hyperglycaemia) during pregnancy and is associated with an increased risk of developing high blood pressure (hypertension) and protein in the urine during pregnancy (pre‐eclampsia). These women are more likely to have a caesarean birth, develop type 2 diabetes, postnatal depression, and cardiovascular disease later on in life. The high blood sugar levels that are associated with GDM often return to normal as soon as the baby is born, but women with GDM are at risk of again developing GDM in future pregnancies. Babies whose mothers have been diagnosed with GDM are at an increased risk of having a birthweight greater than 4000 g, increased risk of birth trauma because of their size and developing breathing difficulties after birth. The babies are also at risk of future obesity and type 2 diabetes. 
Why is this important? 
Women with GDM are treated with the aims of controlling high maternal blood sugar levels and reducing the risks of GDM for the mother and the baby. Blood sugar control is monitored by measuring blood sugar concentrations to ensure they are maintained within a pre‐defined level or range. The blood sugar results are usually obtained by the mother using a finger prick to collect a drop of her blood on a test strip, which is inserted into a small machine (a glucometer) that reads the sugar level of the blood on the test strip. The glucometer reading alerts the pregnant woman to her current blood sugar level and is used to guide her treatment. For example, how many units of insulin she requires before eating. However, it is currently unclear how to advise pregnant women with newly diagnosed GDM what is the most effective blood sugar range to aim for and guide treatment. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 31 January 2016 and found one small randomised controlled trial (abstract only) that was of poor quality and involved 180 women from Canada.The trial compared two blood sugar ranges, one strict the other more liberal, and reported a very few health outcomes for the pregnant woman and her baby. 
The trial did not provide any data for this review's main outcomes. For the woman, these related to the development of high blood pressure and protein in the urine during pregnancy, developing type 2 diabetes. For the baby, these outcomes related to death of the baby, increased birthweight, increased risk of birth trauma because of their size, and disability. 
More women were on insulin in the strictly controlled group (but this result is based on very low quality evidence). No clear differences were reported for caesarian section rates. No other secondary outcome data for women with GDM relevant to this review were reported. No differences were reported for the number of babies that had a birthweight greater than 4000 g or were small‐for‐gestational age. No other secondary outcomes for the babies relevant to this review were reported.The study did not report on adverse events. 
What does this mean? 
This review found that there is not yet enough evidence from randomised controlled trials to determine the best blood sugar range for improving health for pregnant women with GDM and their babies. Four studies are ongoing but not yet complete. More high‐quality studies are needed that compare different targets for blood sugar levels and assess both short‐term and long‐term health outcomes for women and their babies to guide treatment. Studies should include women's experiences and assess health services costs. 
