Do medicinal interventions reduce radiation‐related bone fractures and risk of avascular necrosis in adults undergoing pelvic radiotherapy? 
What is the issue? Research shows that pelvic radiotherapy can cause changes in pelvic bones, which may lead to fractures occurring from minimal trauma (called insufficiency fractures) and permanent damage to bone from interrupted blood supply (called avascular necrosis). These conditions can result in pain, problems with mobility, hospitalisation, need for surgery and death. This review looked at the literature for medicines which may be given prior to or during pelvic radiotherapy, to determine if these could reduce the incidence of insufficiency fractures and avascular necrosis, and improve bone health and quality of life. 
How did we conduct the review? We searched the medical literature up to April 2017 for studies of interventions aimed at preventing fractures and avascular necrosis in people undergoing radiotherapy as part of cancer treatment, with the intention of pooling data from different studies if the study comparisons were similar. 
What evidence did we find? We found two studies where people were randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups (called randomised controlled trials) which were sufficiently relevant to the review topic. Both studies, which involved 1167 participants altogether, were conducted in men undergoing radiotherapy for prostate cancer and evaluated a bisphosphonate medicine called zoledronic acid. These men also received hormone treatment for their condition as reduced bone mineral density (BMD; how many minerals are in the bones, which determines how solid and strong the bones are) is a known side effect of this treatment. Studies measured and reported outcomes differently and we were unable to pool their results (data); however, limited evidence suggested that zoledronic acid might improve BMD in this specific group (men with prostate cancer) who received both hormone treatment and radiotherapy. There were few fractures or avascular necrosis events in the studies, therefore, it is very uncertain whether zoledronic acid has an impact on these important outcomes. As the studies were not specifically designed to evaluate the effect of zoledronic acid on radiotherapy‐related bone outcomes, and participants also received hormone treatment, it is very uncertain whether the evidence applies to people undergoing pelvic radiotherapy for other cancers and people not receiving adjuvant hormone treatment. 
Both studies were at a moderate to high risk of bias and all evidence was judged to be of very low certainty. 
