Needle aspiration compared to incision and drainage for the treatment of peritonsillar abscess (quinsy) 
Review question 
This review compared the effectiveness of the two main treatment options for peritonsillar abscess: needle aspiration and incision and drainage. 
Background 
Peritonsillar abscesses are infections at the back of the throat in which a collection of pus (abscess) has formed next to the tonsil. The condition is characterised by a severe sore throat, difficulty in swallowing and pain on swallowing, fever and malaise, and trismus (inability to open the mouth completely). Treatment is usually by one of two methods. The first is needle aspiration (sucking the pus out using a syringe and needle) and the second 'incision and drainage' (putting a small knife into the abscess to let the pus drain out). It remains unclear whether one type of treatment is better than the other. 
Study characteristics 
We included 11 studies with a total of 674 participants. The participants in the studies were aged from 8 to 79. The studies were conducted in a number of countries (six from Pakistan, two from the USA, one from Taiwan and two from South Africa). All but one of the 11 studies reported the difference in recurrence rate between needle aspiration and incision and drainage. Four studies compared symptom scores associated with the procedure and two studies compared time to resumption of normal diet. Three studies reported adverse effects/events associated with the intervention. Two studies reported complications of the disease process itself. 
The evidence is current to August 2016.
Key results 
Ten studies reported on the recurrence of peritonsillar abscess (our main outcome). Most of them did not clearly define 'recurrence' and they varied in the timing of its assessment, however we were able to combine (pool) the data from these studies. When we pooled the data the recurrence rate was higher in the needle aspiration group compared with incision and drainage. It is important to note that the evidence for this outcome was of very low quality. Some studies found that patients had more pain when they had incision and drainage. 
