Surgical management of pelvic organ prolapse in women
Review question 
Which surgical interventions for apical vaginal prolapse have the best outcomes?
Background 
Apical vaginal prolapse is a descent of the uterus or (after hysterectomy) the upper vagina (vault). Various surgical treatments are available and there are no guidelines to recommend which is the best. 
Study characteristics 
Thirty randomised controlled trials evaluated 3414 women who underwent surgery for apical vaginal prolapse. The most common comparisons were between vaginal surgery and sacral colpopexy (an abdominal procedure suspending the upper vagina to the sacrum with a graft ) (six RCTs), vaginal surgery with mesh versus without (six RCTs), vaginal hysterectomy versus alternatives (six RCTs), and different types or routes of sacral colpopexy (eight RCTs). The evidence is current to July 2015. 
Key results 
Compared to various vaginal repairs, sacral colpopexy was associated with lower rates of awareness of prolapse, repeat surgery for prolapse, prolapse on examination, urinary stress incontinence (SUI) and painful intercourse. If 7% of women are aware of prolapse after sacral colpopexy, 14% (7% to 27%) are likely to be aware after vaginal procedures. If 4% of women require repeat prolapse surgery after sacral colpopexy, between 5% and 18% would require it after vaginal procedures. 
We found no conclusive evidence that vaginal procedures increase the need for repeat surgery for SUI. If 3% of women require repeat surgery for SUI after sacral colpopexy, between 2% and 16% are likely to do so after vaginal procedures. 
The limited evidence does not support the use of transvaginal mesh compared to native tissue repairs. The evidence was imprecise, but suggests that if 18% of women are aware of prolapse after surgery without mesh, between 6% and 59% will be aware after surgery with mesh. If 4% of women require repeat surgery for prolapse after surgery without mesh, 1% to 7% are likely to do so after surgery with mesh. We found no clear evidence that surgery with mesh decreases recurrent prolapse. Most of the evaluated transvaginal meshes are no longer available and new lighter meshes lack evidence of safety. 
The evidence was inconclusive in comparisons of uterine preserving surgery versus vaginal hysterectomy, and different access routes for sacral colpopexy. 
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence quality ranged from very low to moderate. Limitations included imprecision, poor reporting of study methods and inconsistency. 
