Interventions for the management of fluid around the lungs (pleural fluid) caused by cancer 
Review question  
We reviewed the evidence on the effectiveness of different methods to manage a build‐up of fluid around the lungs in people where this is caused by cancer.   
Background  
Malignant pleural effusion (MPE) is a condition that affects people with cancer of the lining of the lung. This can cause fluid to build up in the space between the outside of the lungs and rib cage (pleural cavity), often resulting in breathlessness. Treatment options focus on controlling symptoms. These include removal of the fluid using a temporary chest drain, a camera examination of the pleural cavity (thoracoscopy) or a semi‐permanent chest drain tunnelled under the skin (an indwelling pleural catheter). Introducing a chemical into the pleural cavity can also be used to prevent the fluid coming back (pleurodesis). We wanted to find out which method was the most effective for preventing fluid re‐accumulation (pleurodesis failure) and which was best in terms of side effects (including pain and fever) and other important outcomes such as breathlessness and quality of life. 
Study characteristics  
We collected and analysed relevant studies to answer this question. We were interested in high quality research, so only searched for randomised controlled trials (in which participants are randomly allocated to the treatments being tested). We analysed most data using 'network meta‐analysis', which allows lots of different interventions to be compared in one analysis. This analysis ranks the interventions in order of their effectiveness. 
Certainty of the evidence  
We rated the certainty of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate or high. Very low‐certainty evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High‐certainty evidence means that we are very confident in the results. Many of the studies were of low quality and the individual studies were quite different to each other. This made it difficult to reach definite conclusions. 
