Overview of the safety of regular formoterol or salmeterol in adults with asthma
Background  Asthma is a common condition that affects the airways. When a person with asthma comes into contact with an irritant, the muscles around the walls of the airways tighten and the lining of the airways becomes inflamed and starts to swell. This leads to the symptoms of asthma—wheezing, coughing and difficulty in breathing. No cure for asthma is known; however, there are medications that allow most people to control their asthma so they can get on with daily life. 
People with asthma can have underlying inflammation in their lungs, and they are generally advised to take inhaled corticosteroids to combat this inflammation. If asthma still is not controlled, additional medications may be used. One type of additional medication is the long‐acting beta2‐agonists, such as formoterol and salmeterol, which work by reversing the narrowing of the airways that occurs during an asthma attack. These drugs improve lung function, symptoms and quality of life, and reduce the number of asthma attacks. However, there are concerns about the safety of long‐acting beta2‐agonists, particularly in people who are not also taking corticosteroids. We prepared this overview to take a closer look at the safety of long‐acting beta2‐agonists, given alone (monotherapy) or in combination with corticosteroids (combination therapy), to adults with asthma. 
How the overview was done  We looked at previous Cochrane reviews on long‐acting beta2‐agonists and found a total of six high‐quality reviews on the safety of formoterol or salmeterol. These reviews included a total of 102 studies involving 70,980 adults or teenagers. The most recent search for new studies across all reviews was conducted in September 2013, and we added results from three further studies (1040 participants); these data have been incorporated into the overview. 
We compared formoterol or salmeterol monotherapy versus placebo, and formoterol or salmeterol combination therapy versus corticosteroids alone. We then used the results of these comparisons to look for differences between monotherapy and combination therapy. We also looked at formoterol and salmeterol separately to see whether one was safer than the other, either as monotherapy or as combination therapy. For each comparison, we looked first at risks of death and non‐fatal serious adverse events from any cause, and second at risks of death and non‐fatal serious adverse events related to asthma. 
What was found  The risk of fatal or non‐fatal serious adverse events was lower overall in trials with adults taking randomly assigned inhaled corticosteroids, but we found no significant difference between monotherapy and combination therapy in the impact of treatment on risk of death or serious adverse events. 
We saw no differences between formoterol and salmeterol monotherapy in risk of death or serious adverse events from any cause or in risk of death or serious adverse events related to asthma. We saw no differences between formoterol and salmeterol combination therapy in the number of deaths or serious adverse events from any cause or in the risk of death related to asthma. 
We found no clear differences between the safety of monotherapy and that of combination therapy with long‐acting beta2‐agonists, or between the safety of formoterol and that of salmeterol. The lower estimates of risk on combination therapy support current guidelines, which advise that long‐acting beta2‐agonists should be used only in combination with inhaled steroids for adults with asthma. This review suggests that combination therapy is probably safer than use of long‐acting beta2‐agonists alone, but we do not know exactly how much safer. It is important to continue to collect information on the safety of long‐acting beta2‐agonists. Three large ongoing trials may provide more information. 
