Can xylitol used in products like sweets, candy, chewing gum and toothpaste help prevent tooth decay in children and adults? 
Review question 
This review has been produced to assess whether or not xylitol, a natural sweetener used in products such as sweets, candy, chewing gum and toothpaste, can help prevent tooth decay in children and adults. 
Background 
Tooth decay is a common disease affecting up to 90% of children and most adults worldwide. It impacts on quality of life and can be the reason for thousands of children needing dental treatment under general anaesthetic in hospital. However, it can easily be prevented and treated by good oral health habits such as brushing teeth regularly with toothpaste that contains fluoride and cutting down on sugary food and drinks. If left undisturbed, the unhelpful bacteria in the mouth ‐ which cause decay ‐ multiply and stick to the surfaces of teeth producing a sticky film. Then, when sugar is eaten or drank, the bad bacteria in the film are able to make acid resulting in tooth decay. 
Xylitol is a natural sweetener, which is equally as sweet as normal sugar (sucrose). As well as providing an alternative to sugar, it has other properties that are thought to help prevent tooth decay, such as increasing the production of saliva and reducing the growth of bad bacteria in the mouth so that less acid is produced. 
In humans, xylitol is known to cause possible side effects such as bloating, wind and diarrhoea. 
Study characteristics 
Authors from the Cochrane Oral Health Group carried out this review of existing studies and the evidence is current up to 14 August 2014. It includes 10 studies published from 1991 to 2014 in which 7969 participants were randomised (5903 of whom were included in the analyses) to receive xylitol products or a placebo (a substitute without xylitol) or no treatment, and the amount of tooth decay was compared. One study included adults, the others included children aged from 1 month to 13 years. The products tested were the kind that are held in the mouth and sucked (lozenges, sucking tablets and sweets) or slowly released through a dummy/pacifier, as well as toothpastes, syrups, and wipes. 
Key results 
There is some evidence to suggest that using a fluoride toothpaste containing xylitol may reduce tooth decay in the permanent teeth of children by 13% over a 3 year period when compared to a fluoride‐only toothpaste. Over this period, there were no side effects reported by the children. The remaining evidence we found did not allow us to conclude whether or not any other xylitol‐containing products can prevent tooth decay in infants, older children, or adults. 
Quality of the evidence 
The evidence presented is of low to very low quality due to the small amount of available studies, uncertain results, and issues with the way in which they were conducted. 
