Patient‐controlled analgesia with remifentanil versus alternative analgesic methods for pain relief in labour 
What is the issue 
Pain relief during labour can be provided in a number of different ways. These include epidural analgesia, by injection of anaesthetic medication around the nerve roots in the spine, intramuscular or continuous intravenous opioids, and inhalational analgesia such as with nitrous oxide. Remifentanil is a relatively recently introduced potent, short‐acting opioid, which gives control over pain relief. 
Why is this important 
Labour pain may be associated with adverse effects for the mother and her baby and can result in prolonged labour. 
This review aimed to compare remifentanil given via a patient‐controlled analgesia (PCA) device with other opioids given via the same way or via an intramuscular or intravenous injection, with epidural analgesia, with different regimens of remifentanil (PCA) or with remifentanil as a continuous intravenous infusion, with inhalational analgesia, or with no treatment for women during normal vaginal birth. Our main outcomes of interest were satisfaction with pain relief, pain scores, side effects for the women and their babies, need for additional analgesia and the risk for a caesarean section. 
What evidence did we find 
A search of the literature was performed in November/December 2015 and updated in December 2016. We found 20 randomised controlled trials with 3569 women. The methodological quality of studies was moderate to poor. 
Women who received PCA with remifentanil were more satisfied with their pain relief than women receiving other opioids either by intravenous or intramuscular injection (four trials, 216 women, very low‐quality evidence). Remifentanil (PCA) provided stronger pain relief at one hour than the other opioids by intravenous or intramuscular injection (three trials, 180 women) and using PCA (three trials, 215 women), both very low‐quality evidence but with moderate‐quality evidence that remifentanil (PCA) was associated with a reduced need for additional analgesia compared to other intravenous or intramuscular opioids (three trials, 190 women). The number of women with need for additional analgesia was not different with remifentanil (PCA) or opioids (PCA) (three trials, 215 women, low‐quality evidence). Remifentanil (PCA) increased the risk for a maternal respiratory depression compared to other intramuscular opioids (one trial, 36 women, very low‐quality evidence). The newborn babies were not more likely to have low Apgar scores at five minutes after birth under remifentanil (PCA) compared to other intravenous or intramuscular opioids (one trial, 88 newborns, very low‐quality evidence), but newborns have a lower risk under remifentanil (PCA) compared to other opioids (PCA) (one trial, 17 newborns, very low‐quality evidence). Remifentanil (PCA) was not associated with an increased risk for caesarean section when compared with intravenous or intramuscular opioids (four trials, 215 women, low‐quality evidence), but compared to other opioids (PCA) (two trials, 143 women, very low‐quality evidence). 
