Medication to prevent infection of the eye in newborns
What was the aim of the review?The aim of this Cochrane Review was to determine if any medication is better than placebo or no preventive action in preventing ophthalmia neonatorum. Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 30 studies.  
Key messagesThere are no data on whether prophylaxis for ophthalmia neonatorum prevents serious outcomes such as blindness or visual impairment. Moderate‐certainty evidence suggests that the use of prophylaxis may lead to a reduction in the incidence of any conjunctivitis of any cause in newborns but the evidence for effect on gonococcal or chlamydial conjunctivitis was of low to very‐low certainty. Comparison of individual interventions did not suggest any consistently superior intervention, but data were limited. 
What was studied in the review?Ophthalmia neonatorum, also known as neonatal conjunctivitis, is an infection of the eye surface that affects newborn babies within the first month of life. It is usually caused by infection (bacterial or viral) picked up during birth. If left untreated, it can lead to blindness. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends the following treatments to prevent ophthalmia neonatorum: 
• tetracycline hydrochloride 1% eye ointment;• erythromycin 0.5% eye ointment;• povidone‐iodine 2.5% solution (water‐based);• silver nitrate 1% solution;• chloramphenicol 1% eye ointment. 
Cochrane Review authors considered these treatments and others to prevent the development of conjunctivitis in newborns. They assessed the two main types of conjunctivitis separately ‐ gonococcal conjunctivitis (caused by Neisseria gonorrhoeae) and chlamydial conjunctivitis (caused by Chlamydia trachomatis) ‐ as well as conjunctivitis due to any bacteria (including Neisseria gonorrhoeae and Chlamydia trachomatis), conjunctivitis due to any cause or conjunctivitis of unknown cause.  
What are the main results of the review?Cochrane Review authors identified 30 studies with a total of 79,198 newborns. Eighteen studies took place in high‐income settings (the USA, Europe, Israel, Canada), and 12 were conducted in low‐ and middle‐income settings (Africa, Iran, China, Indonesia, Mexico). The main preventive medications evaluated in the included studies were: tetracycline 1%, erythromycin 0.5%, povidone‐iodine 2.5%, and silver nitrate 1%. 
Newborns given preventive medication are likely to have a lower chance of conjunctivitis within one month of birth compared with newborns not given preventive medication (moderate‐certainty evidence). The evidence for specific causes of conjunctivitis (gonococcal, chlamydial) was less certain as these occurred less frequently in the included studies. None of the studies collected data on blindness or adverse vision outcomes. 
How up‐to‐date is the review?Cochrane Review authors searched for studies published up to 4 October 2019. 
