Umbilical cord antiseptics for preventing sepsis and death among newborns
The umbilical cord connects the baby and mother during pregnancy. The cord is cut after birth. The cord stump then dries and falls off, generally within five to 15 days. Infection of the umbilical cord stump (omphalitis), caused by skin bacteria, is a significant cause of illness and death in newborn babies in developing countries. This review evaluated all studies that assessed antiseptics applied topically to the umbilical cord to determine if they reduce the risk of cord infection and death. Thirty‐four randomised controlled studies were included involving 69,338 babies. There were 22 different interventions studied. The most commonly studied antiseptics in the included studies were 70% alcohol, triple dye and chlorhexidine. Three studies were conducted in community settings in developing countries; the remainder were conducted in hospital settings, mostly in developed countries. Studies conducted in community settings were large and contributed about 78% of all the participants included in this review. Hospital‐based studies were small and had limitations. 
Studies conducted in community settings evaluated the effectiveness of topical application of chlorhexidine and combined results showed that chlorhexidine reduced risk of death by 23% and the risk of cord infection ranging from 27% to 56%, depending on the severity of infection. Topical application of chlorhexidine may increase cord separation time by about 1.7 days, however, this does not increase subsequent risk of cord infection or death. 
None of the studies conducted in hospital settings reported data for risk of death or tetanus. No antiseptic was found to be advantageous for the prevention of cord infection compared with dry cord care in hospital settings. Topical triple dye application reduced bacterial colonization with Staphylococcus aureus compared to both dry cord care and alcohol application. There was no advantage of application of alcohol and triple dye for reduction of colonization with streptococcus. Topical alcohol application was advantageous in the reduction of colonization with Enterococcus coli compared with dry cord care and triple dye application. Cord separation time was increased with topical application of alcohol and triple dye compared with dry cord care in hospital settings. There were insufficient studies to determine the efficacy of other antiseptics. 
