Mailuoning (a type of traditional Chinese medicine) for improving outcome in people with acute ischaemic stroke 
Review question: We wanted to compare the safety and effects of mailuoning treatment versus placebo or no treatment for reducing death and dependency in people with acute ischaemic stroke. 
Background: Mailuoning, a type of Chinese traditional medicine, is widely used in the treatment of acute ischaemic stroke in China even though its effect is still uncertain. Animal experimental studies and clinical pharmacological research indicate that mailuoning might improve blood circulation, prevent ischaemic injury, and protect heart and brain tissue. We therefore sought to undertake a review to discover whether using mailuoning therapy was better or worse than placebo or no additional treatment for people with acute ischaemic stroke. 
Study characteristics: We searched for trials up to June 2014 and included 21 randomised controlled trials, involving 1746 participants, of mailuoning for people with acute ischaemic stroke. Two trials followed up participants for three months after treatment ended, but the duration of the other trials was shorter, from 14 to 38 days. A government agency funded one of the 21 included trials. 
Key results: We assessed 20 trials to be of a low quality. When we analysed these trials together, there was no significant difference for adverse events between the mailuoning‐treatment group and the control group; mailuoning improved neurological impairment and cognitive function significantly. One trial, assessed to be of a higher quality, failed to show any significant improvement made by mailuoning on neurological deficit, activities of daily life, or quality of life. There was no convincing evidence from trials with sufficient methodological quality to support the routine use of mailuoning to promote recovery after stroke. High‐quality large‐scale randomised controlled trials are needed to confirm its effect. 
Quality of the evidence: We assessed 20 of the 21 included trials to be of a poor quality for their study design; we assessed one trial to be of a higher quality, but there were fewer participants in this trial. Overall, the quality of evidence was poor. 
