Which medicines work best to prevent people from being sick (vomiting) after an operation?
Why are people sick after an operation? 
Feeling sick (nausea) or being sick (vomiting) is a common unwanted effect of general anaesthesia—medicine that makes people unconscious and unresponsive so they don't move or feel pain during an operation. 
Most unwanted effects of general anaesthesia, including feeling or being sick, happen immediately and stop after a few hours, although some people may continue to feel sick for up to a day. If people carry on feeling or being sick, they might have to stay in hospital longer than expected and may experience other unwanted effects or complications. 
Women are more likely to be sick after an operation, as are people taking opioid painkillers, those who have had motion sickness, and those who have been sick after previous operations.  
Medicines to prevent people from being sick 
Medicines called antiemetics are given to prevent people from feeling or being sick. These medicines may be given before or during anaesthesia. 
Antiemetic medicines are grouped into six main classes based on how they act. Combining medicines from different classes sometimes makes them work better. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out which medicines work best to prevent people from being sick after an operation and cause the fewest unwanted effects. Some unwanted effects of antiemetic medicines include headache, constipation, movement disorders such as tremors, sleepiness, irregular heartbeat, and wound infection. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the use of antiemetic medicines in adults having general anaesthesia to prevent people from being sick afterwards.   
We looked for randomized controlled studies, in which the treatments people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date 
We included evidence published up to November 2017; in April 2020, we found another 39 studies, which are not yet included in the analysis. 
What we found 
We found 585 studies in 97,516 people who were given antiemetic medicines before or during general anaesthesia. People included in the studies were more likely to be sick after anaesthesia, as 83% were women and 88% were taking opioid painkillers. Most studies were conducted in Asia, Europe, or North America. 
These studies either measured how many people were sick in the first 24 hours after their operation or how many unwanted effects were reported, or both of these outcomes. Most studies compared medicines (given alone or in combination) with a dummy (placebo) treatment. 
