Interventions for leg cramps during pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Leg cramps are experienced as sudden, intense involuntary contractions of the leg muscles. They are a common problem in pregnancy, especially in the third trimester. They are painful and can interfere with daily activities, disrupt sleep, and reduce quality of life. Various interventions have been used during pregnancy to treat leg cramps, including drug, electrolyte (magnesium, calcium, sodium) and vitamin therapies, and non‐drug therapies such as muscle stretching. 
Why is this important? 
The goal of this review was to find out what is effective and safe for treating leg cramps during pregnancy. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in September 2019 and identified eight randomised controlled studies, with a total of 576 women who were 14 to 36 weeks pregnant, comparing either magnesium, calcium, calcium‐vitamin D or vitamin B with placebo or no treatment, and comparing vitamin C with calcium. All treatments were given as tablets to be chewed or swallowed. 
Magnesium supplements may reduce how often women experienced leg cramps when compared with placebo or no treatment, although findings were not consistent. Studies measured this in different ways, sometimes showing that magnesium helped reduce the number of leg cramps but sometimes showing that it made little or no difference. Likewise, evidence about whether magnesium reduced the intensity of pain was inconclusive with one study showing a reduction while others showed no difference. There was little or no difference in the experience of side effects, such as nausea and diarrhoea. 
Calcium did not consistently reduce how often women experienced leg cramps after treatment compared to women who did not receive any treatment. The evidence was also found to be of very low quality and so we cannot be sure of the results. 
More women who received vitamin B supplements fully recovered compared with those women receiving no treatment; however these results were from a small sample and the study had design limitations. 
