Endoscopy or surgery for patients with chronic pancreatitis and dilated pancreatic duct 
Background 
Endoscopy and surgery are the treatments of choice in patients with chronic pancreatitis and a dilated pancreatic duct. Pain is the most important symptom in this disease and can be severely debilitating. In addition, chronic pancreatitis can result in malabsorption and/or diabetes due to failure of the gland function of the pancreas. 
Question 
In this review, we compare endoscopy versus surgery in terms of pain relief, complications and mortality in patients with chronic pancreatitis with a dilated pancreatic duct. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a search in March 2014 and found three relevant randomised trials. Two comparing endoscopic versus surgical interventions (111 patients with durations of two and three years), while the third compared surgery to conservative treatment (i.e. no intervention) (32 patients with a duration of 16 months). 
Key results 
We found that surgery achieved pain relief in a higher proportion of participants than endoscopy. Surgery also had other advantages like improved quality of life for the first two years after intervention, although this difference disappeared with time. Similarly, surgery reduced the risk of developing malabsorption due to failure of the pancreas, but with longer follow‐up this advantage became smaller. The studies seemingly showed no difference between endoscopy and surgery in complications after interventions. We also compared surgery with conservative treatment. The results of one trial suggested that surgery early in the condition achieved better pain relief and preservation of pancreatic function. 
Quality of evidence 
For endoscopy versus surgery, the quality of the evidence for pain relief, quality of life and pancreatic function was moderate (according to GRADE). For both complications and mortality this was low, since the two trials were too small to make reliable conclusions. The quality of evidence regarding surgery versus conservative treatment was low, since the trial was small, which precluded drawing reliable conclusions regarding all outcomes. 
