Treatments for improving outcomes for mother and baby when the waters have broken too early 
What is the issue? 
Preterm prelabour rupture of the membranes (PPROM) is when the waters break at less than 37 weeks' gestation. It occurs in one in 50 pregnancies and can happen spontaneously or after a medical procedure has been performed, for example, tests where a needle is placed in to the womb to get a sample of fluid or tissue, or after an operation has been performed on the baby inside the womb. 
Why is this important? 
Breaking of the waters early in pregnancy can lead to significant problems including the baby being born too soon to survive, having immature lungs, and serious infections. Preterm babies are overall more likely to be ill and to suffer from long‐term disabilities, if they do survive. The survival of babies affected by PPROM is related to how early it occurs in the pregnancy and if an infection occurs. In some circumstances, the waters may reseal themselves. This is more likely to occur when no infection is present. 
Several treatments to reseal the membranes have been tried, with varying success. Resealing has been attempted by: 
a) injecting clotting factors and other medicines in to the hole in the womb to create a patch over the area that is leaking; 
b) taking tablets that may stimulate the body’s immune system to mend the area where the seal has broken; 
c) placing a sponge over the hole in the waters;
d) placing a seal over the neck of the womb to stop fluid leaking out and prevent infection. 
Our study is important because finding a successful treatment for PPROM may reduce the potential complications that may happen to the mother and baby such as preterm birth (being born before 37 weeks' gestation) and infections. 
What did we find? 
In our study we assessed the different techniques used for resealing the waters. We aimed to compare the survival of babies affected with this condition before and after birth and look at the rates of complications in both the babies and mothers. We searched for trials (30 May 2016) and found two studies that compared treatments for resealing the membranes after they had broken. These trials involved 141 women in total and compared two completely different modes of treatment. 
One trial compared the use of an oral immunological membrane sealant to stimulate the body’s immune system to mend the area where the seal has broken and the other trial placed a mechanical sealing device over the cervix (neck of the womb) to stop fluid leaking. Unfortunately, neither trial provided any data relating to death of the baby within the womb or in the first 28 days of life (perinatal mortality). 
There was limited evidence to suggest that oral immunological membrane sealant was associated with a fewer babies being before 37 weeks’ gestation and a reduction in the number of babies that died within the first 28 days. However, these results are based on very low‐quality evidence from one small trial (with data from 94 women) that we judged to be at a high risk of bias. 
