CAR T‐cell therapy for people with diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma which returns after treatment or no longer responds to treatment 
Background 
Diffuse large B‐cell lymphoma (DLBCL) is a fast‐growing cancer of the lymphatic system, an important part of the immune system. It affects blood cells that produce antibodies to fight infections. 
DLBCL is potentially curable. Most people with DLBCL respond well to initial therapies such as chemotherapy. For some people, the disease becomes refractory, which means it no longer responds to treatment, or it relapses, which means it returns after treatment. As a second‐line treatment, people with DLBCL can receive chemotherapy coupled with stem‐cell transplantation, but not all people are candidates for this therapy. From those who are, around 50% experience relapse after treatment. People who relapse or are refractory to advanced lines of treatment and those who are not candidates for a stem‐cell transplant have a very poor prognosis: Only half of them survive longer than six to 12 months. 
A promising treatment for these people is 'chimeric antigen receptor' (CAR) T‐cell therapy, which utilises the body's own immune cells (T‐cells) to fight DLBCL. T‐cells are removed from the person's blood, equipped with so‐called 'chimeric antigen receptors' (CARs), that help to recognise and destroy the cancer cells, in the laboratory and then delivered back into the person's blood. 
What was our aim? 
We wanted to explore whether CAR T‐cells are an effective treatment for people with DLBCL that returns after treatment (relapses) or no longer responds to treatment (is refractory). We also wanted to explore the frequency of unwanted effects associated with CAR T‐cell therapy. 
What did we do? 
We searched for all available clinical studies on treatment with CAR T‐cells for people with relapsed or refractory DLBCL to summarise the current evidence. We also evaluated the risk of bias in included studies and rated our confidence in the evidence. 
What did we find? 
We found 13 studies with information on 679 participants (who had received several prior lines of therapy) that received CAR T‐cell therapy. None of the studies had a control group. This means CAR T‐cells were not compared with another treatment. We decided not to meta‐analyse the study results and reported all results narratively. We also found 38 ongoing studies. 
What are the key results? 
Eight studies with 567 participants evaluated overall survival. After 12 months, around half of participants were alive in four studies. In one study, around half of participants were alive after 24 months. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of CAR T‐cells on survival. 
Two studies (294 participants at study start; 59 participants at study end) reported that quality of life improved over time. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of CAR T‐cells on quality of life. 
Deaths related to the therapy were not reported.
Five studies (550 participants) reported on adverse events. Almost all participants (99% to 100%) experienced some kind of adverse event (including mild events). Between 68% and 98% of participants had adverse events that were severe. CAR T‐cells may increase the risk of adverse events but the evidence about the exact risk is very uncertain. 
In three studies (253 participants), 56% to 68% of participants experienced serious adverse events, while in one study (28 participants), participants had no serious adverse events. CAR T‐cells may increase the risk of serious adverse events but the evidence about the exact risk is very uncertain. 
Eleven studies (675 participants) reported on the frequency of 'cytokine release syndrome' (CRS), an overreaction of the immune system that is typically seen in CAR T‐cell therapy. It includes fever and can include symptoms such as chills, muscle pain or dizziness. Several scales were used across the studies to describe CRS. In five studies using the same scale, between 42% and 100% of participants had CRS. CAR T‐cells may increase the risk of CRS but the evidence about the exact risk is very uncertain. 
Nine studies (575 participants) reported when DLBCL relapsed (returned) or progressed (got worse). Four studies reported that, at 12 months, DLBCL did not progress in 44% to 75% of participants. In one study, 64% of participants did not relapse at both 12, and 18 months. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of CAR T‐cells on DLBCL relapse or progress. 
Thirteen studies (620 participants) reported how many participants had a complete response (all signs of cancer disappeared). In three studies, between 40% and 45% of participants experienced a complete response at six months. The evidence is very uncertain about the effect of CAR T‐cells on complete response. 
