Interventions for the management of obesity in people with bipolar disorder
Why is this review important? 
Bipolar disorder is one of the most common serious mental illnesses and impacts mood, thinking, behaviour, functioning, and quality of life. Approximately 60 million people worldwide are affected by bipolar disorder. Obesity is commonly associated with the illness, and when this happens, it can cause other physical health conditions such as diabetes and cardiovascular disease, leading to premature death. Many approaches are used to manage obesity in bipolar disorder, but as yet, we are not sure if any one or a combination of approaches is effective. 
Who might be interested in this review? 
Psychiatrists and any members of the multi‐disciplinary team caring for individuals with bipolar disorder and comorbid obesity. Findings from this review will also be of interest to researchers and people with bipolar disorder and their families. 
What question does this review aim to answer? 
This review sought to assess the effectiveness of interventions used to address the problem of obesity in bipolar disorder. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched databases up to February 2019 for studies of interventions used to manage the problem of obesity in individuals with bipolar disorder. None of the studies reviewed met the inclusion criteria. 
What does evidence from the review reveal? 
There is an absence of evidence for the effectiveness of pharmacological, non‐pharmacological, or surgical interventions for management of obesity in individuals with bipolar disorder. 
What should happen next? 
There is an urgent need to undertake randomised controlled trials to assess the effectiveness of non‐pharmacological, pharmacological, and surgical approaches for the treatment of obesity in bipolar disorder populations. Trials should include only people with a clinical diagnosis of bipolar disorder and comorbid obesity. 
Authors' conclusions 
Implications for practice 
Findings from this review suggest that there is no evidence to support non‐pharmacological, pharmacological, or surgical approaches for the management of obesity in bipolar disorder. 
