Treatment for primary autoimmune haemolytic anaemia
What is primary autoimmune haemolytic anaemia (AIHA)? 
Red blood cells carry oxygen to all parts of the body. In healthy people, red blood cells live about 120 days. In AIHA the immune system does not work properly and destroys red blood cells faster than rhe body can make them. Primary AIHA is when a person does not have another condition that caused their AIHA. 
Primary AIHA develops differently in different people. People often need to have repeated blood transfusions to keep their red blood cell levels normal. The disease may be life‐threatening for some people. 
What is the aim of this review and why is it important? 
The aim of this review is to find out what research studies tell us about the safety and effectiveness of treating primary AIHA with immune modulating agents. Immune modulating agents change how your immune system works. They are not a cure, but they can slow AIHA. 
But how well do these agents work? Are some safer than others? The answers are important to help doctors and patients make treatment decisions based on evidence. 
What studies did the review find? 
We looked at studies that were finished by 7 March 2021. We found two studies that looked at an immune modulating agent called rituximab, which targets immune cells, called B‐cells. 
The studies compared two groups of adults with primary AIHA who were treated:
· with rituximab and steroid
· with steroid alone
It’s important to know that these studies were very small, including a total of 96 people. And the design of one study had a problem that may have affected the results. 
Recovery after treatment  
· At 12 months after beginning treatment, rituximab and steroid appear to help more people recover from primary AIHA than steroid alone. Researchers think the quality of this research finding is low. They think future research is likely to change these results. 
· At six months after beginning treatment, there was no difference in recovery between the adults treated with rituximab and a steroid and those treated with a steroid alone. 
Side effects from treatment  
· Side effects between the two groups were the same.
What’s the bottom line of this review? 
Rituximab and steroid may help more people have a complete recovery from newly diagnosed, primary warm AIHA than steroid alone. Side effects appear to be about the same for both treatments. But more research is needed to know for sure. 
Doctors offer other treatments for primary AIHA that may be helpful, but there is a lack of research about how well they work. For now, based on the little information we have, the patient and doctor will have to carefully make decisions together about treating primary AIHA. 
