Surgical repair of inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms
Background 
An aneurysm is a localised widening or enlargement of an artery that may ultimately lead to rupture (bursting) and may be fatal. The abdominal aorta is the artery most frequently involved in the enlargement process. In inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms, the aortic enlargement is accompanied by inflammation around the aorta with thickening of the adjacent tissues and potential entrapping of the adjacent organs, mostly the ureters (the tubes draining the kidneys) or intestines, thus potentially causing kidney or bowel problems. The aim of aneurysm treatment is to prevent rupture. It can be accomplished by an open repair, which involves surgery to open the abdomen and replace the aneurysm with an artificial graft (tube), or by an endovascular repair, which places an artificial stent graft inside the aneurysm, delivered through the blood vessel in the groin. In inflammatory aneurysm, inflammation and involvement of the ureters or intestines make open repair more difficult. However, endovascular repair may not last as well and may not relieve the inflammation as much or may worsen it. It is currently unclear whether open repair or endovascular repair is the best treatment for inflammatory aortic aneurysm. 
Key results 
We searched for evidence directly comparing the treatments in inflammatory aortic aneurysm repair. The present review found no randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups; one of which is the control group), quasi‐randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are not randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups; one of which is the control group; e.g. by date of birth) and controlled clinical trials (a clinical trial that has a control group but is not necessarily randomised) to determine the superiority of one treatment over the other. Further studies are needed to help surgeons chose the best treatment for inflammatory abdominal aortic aneurysms. 
