Methods for promoting sleep in children and young people in hospital without using medicines (non‐medicinal) 
Key messages 
We are uncertain how effective non‐medicinal sleep promotion methods are for children and young people in hospital. 
Studies that use established, reliable research methods are needed to investigate non‐medicinal sleep promotion in hospitalized children and young people, to identify methods that work. 
Why is sleep important for children in hospital? 
Sleep is an important part of healthy childhood development and helps to keep children healthy. Sleep patterns change throughout childhood, as children’s brains develop. When children are ill and stay in hospital, their sleep may be of poor quality, or disrupted by the constant noise and light, medical treatments, monitoring by nurses, stress, and pain. 
While medicines can be used to try to improve sleep in hospitalized children, studies show they do not work particularly well, and can make the quality of sleep worse. Non‐medicinal ways of promoting sleep can be used instead. These may include changes to the hospital environment, music, massage, or other methods. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out whether non‐medicinal ways of trying to improve sleep work better than usual care or other methods in hospitalized children. 
We wanted to look at how well these different methods worked on:
‐ the quality and quantity of sleep in the children;
‐ child and parent satisfaction;
‐ length of time for which breathing was supported by a ventilator (ventilator support);
‐ delirium;
‐ cost‐effectiveness;
‐ length of hospital stay; and
‐ mortality.
We also wanted to find out if non‐medicinal methods were associated with any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We looked for studies that compared non‐medicinal methods for improving sleep with usual care, or other methods in children in hospital. 
We compared and summarized the results of the studies, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors, such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 10 trials from three countries, which involved 528 children and young people (aged from 4 to 22 years). Eight studies were funded by non‐profit organizations or government sources. 
All the children and young people were staying in hospital for more than 48 hours on regular wards, or in children’s intensive care units. The methods used to try to improve sleep included behavioral interventions (relaxation, including music, reading, and quiet time; touch therapy, and massage), and physical activity interventions. 
There were many differences between studies in the participants, the methods used to measure the quantity and quality of sleep, and the way the results were analyzed. As a result, we could not combine the findings of trials that investigated similar methods; instead, we provided a descriptive summary. 
Behavioral interventions 
Studies that combined methods of relaxation found that these may make little or no difference on the amount or quality of sleep compared to usual care. 
Touch therapy may improve total sleep time and sleep quality in children with burns. Massage and bedtime stories may also improve sleep. However, we have little confidence in these results, because of differences in the study populations and the measurement methods they used. 
Children and parents may be satisfied with both massage and multicomponent relaxation methods for improving sleep. However, we are not confident about this result, as the people in the studies knew which sleep‐improving method they received, and there were not enough studies for us to be certain about their results. 
We did not identify any studies that reported length of ventilator support, delirium, cost‐effectiveness, length of hospital stay, or mortality. 
Physical activity interventions 
One study showed that using a stationary (exercise) bicycle to improve sleep may not improve total sleep time or quality of sleep compared to usual care. Another study investigated whether organized play improved sleep; it found inconsistent results for boys and girls, and for children in different age groups. No study evaluated child or parent satisfaction, cost‐effectiveness, delirium, length of ventilator support, length of hospital stay, or mortality. 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We did not identify any studies that reported the effects of complementary interventions, such as aromatherapy, acupressure, or acupuncture. 
We did not identify any studies for any intervention that reported length of ventilator support, delirium, cost‐effectiveness, length of hospital stay, or mortality. 
We are not confident in any of these results; it is possible that these results would change if we had more evidence. 
How up to date is this review? 
This evidence is current to December 2021.
