Measures for preventing cold sores
Review question 
What measures are effective in preventing recurrence of cold sores?
Background 
A cold sore is an irritating recurrent viral infection with no proven cure. It gives rise to painful vesicles on the lips that form unsightly crusts, causing an unpleasant look and mental distress. We aimed to examine the effects of available measures for preventing recurrence of cold sores in people with normal immunity. 
Study characteristics 
We examined the research published up to 19 May 2015. We wanted to include studies only if receiving one preventative measure or another was decided by chance. This research method, termed randomised controlled trial (RCT), is the best way to test that a preventive effect is caused by the measure being tested. We found 32 RCTs that included 2640 people and examined 19 preventative measures. The drug manufacturer funded a total of 18 out of 32 studies, non‐profit organisations funded 4, and we do not know how the other 10 were funded. 
Key results 
Long‐term use of antiviral drugs taken by mouth prevented cold sores, though with a very small decrease of 0.09 episodes per person per month. The preventative effect of long‐term use of aciclovir cream applied to the lips was uncertain. Long‐term use of 1,5‐pentanediol gel and 2‐hydroxypropyl‐β‐cyclo dextrin 20% gel applied to the lips did not prevent cold sores. 
Short‐term use of either antiviral drugs or creams did not prevent cold sores. Neither short‐term nor long‐term use of these antiviral drugs or creams appeared to cause side‐effects. 
The preventative effects of sunscreen were uncertain. Application of sunscreen prevented cold sores induced by experimental ultraviolet light, but did not prevent cold sores induced by sunlight. 
We found very little evidence about the preventative effects of thymopentin, low‐energy laser, and hypnotherapy for cold sores. The available evidence found no preventative effects of lysine, LongoVital® supplementation, gamma globulin, herpes virus vaccine, and yellow fever vaccine. There were no consistent data to confirm that levamisole and interferon do prevent cold sores. 
