Does a combination of stop smoking medication and behavioural support help smokers to stop? 
Background 
Behavioural support (such as brief advice and counselling) and medications (including varenicline, bupropion, and nicotine replacement therapies like patches or gum) help people quit smoking. Many guidelines recommend combining medication and behavioural support to help people stop smoking, but it is unclear if some combinations are more effective than others, or if the combination of medication and behavioural support works better in some settings or groups than in others. 
Study Characteristics 
In July 2015 we searched for studies which tested combinations of behavioural support and medication to help smokers to stop compared to usual care or brief behavioural support. People who smoked were recruited mainly in health care settings. Some trials only enrolled people who said they wanted to try to quit at that time, but some included people who weren't planning to quit. Studies had to report how many people had stopped smoking after at least six months. 
Results 
We found 53 studies with a total of over 25,000 participants. One very large study found a large benefit. It gave intensive support including nicotine gum, multiple group sessions, and long term contact to help people stay quit or encourage additional quit attempts. Because it was not typical of most treatment programmes, it was not included when we estimated the likely benefit, although it shows that such intensive support can be very effective. Based on the remaining 52 studies, we found high quality evidence that using a combination of behavioural support and medication increases the chances of successfully quitting after at least six months. Combining the results suggests that the chance of success is increased by 70 to 100 percent compared to just brief advice or support. There was some evidence that the effect tended to be larger when participants were recruited in healthcare settings. There was no clear evidence that providing more contact increased the number of people who quit smoking at six months or longer. . 
