Aspiration of the elbow joint for treating radial head fractures
What is a radial head fracture? 
The radial head is the topmost part of the radius, which is one of the two forearm bones. The radial head is part of the elbow joint. Fracture or breaking of the radial head is the most common elbow fracture. This injury usually results from a fall onto an outstretched arm. The symptoms of a radial head fracture are pain, swelling and bruising around the elbow, as well as restricted movement. 
What is aspiration? 
One treatment for radial head fracture is aspiration. This is a procedure where a sterile needle and syringe are used to drain excess fluid and blood from the elbow joint to relieve pressure and thus, in theory, relieve pain and improve clinical outcome. However, aspiration is an invasive procedure that puts the patient at further risk of complications, such as infection and injury to nerves and vessels. The procedure is typically done in the first few days after injury. 
Aim of the review 
We aimed to assess the effects (benefits and harms) of aspiration of the elbow joint for treating radial head fracture in adults. 
Description of the studies included in the review  We searched the medical literature up to April 2014 and found two relevant studies that reported results for a total of 108 people with radial head fractures. Most participants were adults, aged 30 or over. They generally had less serious fractures and were all treated without surgery. The two studies were small, poorly reported and at high risk of bias. Neither study used reliable measures to assess function or pain. Consequently, we are very unsure of the findings of these trials. 
Summary of the evidence 
Very low quality evidence showed little difference between those who had joint aspiration and those who did not in being unable to carry heavy loads or having discomfort when carrying loads using their previously injured arm at one year after injury. Very low quality evidence shows that aspiration often provides immediate pain relief and may still provide pain relief at three weeks. Neither trial reported on adverse events from the procedure, but aspiration was reported as being unsuccessful in three participants of one study. Very low quality evidence shows little effect of aspiration on being able to extend the elbow at either six weeks or one year. The reporting of adverse events was incomplete, but one trial reported the absence of three common complications of radial head fractures. 
