Platelet count, spleen length, and platelet‐to‐spleen length ratio for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices in people with liver disease 
Background 
Hepatic cirrhosis is a severe disease with scars and nodules on the liver tissue. As a result, the normal function of the liver is impaired. Whatever the cause of cirrhosis, changes in the structure of and blood flow within the liver increase pressure in the portal vein (called portal vein hypertension), which is the vein that drains blood from the bowels to the liver. Portal hypertension induces dilatation (extension) of veins within the wall of the oesophagus (food pipe or gullet), which often rupture (break) with severe bleeding. Thus, when liver cirrhosis is diagnosed, an oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy (OGD) is recommended to detect the presence of oesophageal varices (areas of abnormal dilatation of veins). During OGD, a small camera at the end of a tube is inserted down the oesophagus from the mouth and pictures are relayed back to a screen. Large varices or red signs on even small varices show high risks of rupture and bleeding. If high‐risk varices are found, treatment with beta‐blockers is effective in reducing the risk of bleeding. Three simple non‐invasive tests could be used to identify people with liver diease at high risk of having oesophageal varices: platelet count ‐ a simple laboratory test on a blood sample by which the number of platelets (a blood element ensuring coagulation) is measured; length (maximal diameter) of the spleen measured during ultrasound examination of the abdomen; and ratio of platelet count to spleen length. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for clinical studies comparing platelet count, spleen length, or platelet count‐to‐spleen length ratio versus oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy in detecting the presence of varices in children or adults with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (narrowing of the portal vein). The evidence is current to June 2016. 
