Fornix‐based versus limbal‐based conjunctival trabeculectomy flaps for glaucoma
Which works better in adults with glaucoma: fornix‐based or limbak‐based incisions of drainage surgery?We reviewed the evidence for the benefits and risks of the two main approaches (fornix‐based versus limbal‐based incisions) for drainage surgery (trabeculectomy) in adults with glaucoma. 
Why is this question important?Glaucoma is one of the leading largely‐preventable causes of blindness in the world. When medical treatment with eyedrops is inadequate to control progression, surgical treatment is performed to enhance flow through the drainage system and lower the pressure in the eye. Trabeculectomy is one surgical technique that creates a passage, allowing drainage of fluid from inside the eye to lower the eye pressure. There are two incision types in this surgery: fornix‐based [incision is created at the corneal limbus (between the cornea and conjunctiva) and hinged in the fornix space] and limbal‐based [incision is created further away from the limbus under the eyelid]. This review aims to look at whether there are any differences in the surgical outcomes (eye pressure control and complications) between these two different surgical approaches (fornix and limbal‐based techniques). 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?We searched the medical literature for studies that compared fornix and limbal‐based techniques for adults with glaucoma. Next, we compared the results and summarized the evidence from all relevant studies. We also rated our confidence in the evidence based on the factors such as how studies were conducted and how many people were included.  
What did we find?We found six randomised controlled trials (RCTs) with a total of 361 adults with any type of glaucoma. They were followed‐up at least 24 months.  
‐ Failure rate at 24 months was not reported in any included studies, and one study reported "late complications" but did not specify a time period, which favoured the fornix‐based treatment (our confidence in this evidence was low).  
‐ No difference was noted with respect to lowering eye pressure after 24 months (two studies) and after 12 months (four studies)(moderate confidence).  
‐ The number of medications needed to control eye pressure after surgery was also similar (high confidence).  
‐ Most of the studies reported that the complication rates after the operation were similar except in one complication which was narrowing in the anterior part of the eye after the procedure (more common in the limbal surgery group), but this did not affect the final outcome of the surgery. 
What does this mean?We do not know whether fornix‐ or limbal‐based trabeculectomy surgery is better in terms of benefits and risks due to a lack of robust evidence. 
