How effective are visual cycle modulators (a type of medicine) for preventing and treating geographic atrophy (a degenerative eye condition)? 
Why is this question important?Geographic atrophy is an eye condition that leads to progressive loss of central vision. It is an advanced form of age‐related macular degeneration (AMD), a degenerative condition that usually develops in people over the age of 50. The condition affects the central part (macula) of the back of the eye (retina). There are two types of AMD: ‘wet’ and ‘dry’. In wet AMD, blood vessels in the eye leak, whereas in dry AMD they do not. Geographic atrophy is a late stage of dry AMD. 
Currently, we do not know how to prevent or treat vision loss caused by geographic atrophy. One potential treatment option is a type of medicine called a visual cycle modulator. Visual cycle modulators stop a toxic material (lipofuscin) from accumulating in the retina, and so they may be able to slow down vision loss in people with the condition. 
We conducted a review of the evidence from research studies to find out about the benefits and risks of visual cycle modulators for treating and preventing geographic atrophy. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence?First, we searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature. We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we assessed how certain the evidence was. To do this, we considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low‐, low‐, moderate‐ or high‐certainty. 
What did we find?We found three studies conducted in the USA and Germany that involved a total of 821 people with advanced dry AMD. All three studies were randomised controlled studies: clinical studies where people were randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups. Investigators treated the participants for between 90 days and 24 months, and followed them for between seven and 30 days once treatment ended. The studies compared the effects of a placebo (dummy) treatment against two different visual cycle modulators: emixustat (2 studies) and fenretinide (1 study). 
Emixustat against placebo 
Low‐certainty evidence suggested that there may be little to no difference between emixustat and placebo when considering: 
• Average change in vision loss;• The proportion of people who lost 15 letters or more according to a vision chart; or• The progression of geographic atrophy. 
Fenretinide against placebo 
Low‐certainty evidence suggested that geographic atrophy may progress at a slightly slower rate in people treated with fenretinide at a dose of 300 mg per day compared to a placebo. However, it was not clear whether this difference was important enough to make a difference to patients. 
