Anti‐cancer drug treatment for gestational trophoblastic neoplasia (GTN) that does not respond to first‐line treatment or that re‐occurs 
This review concerns anti‐cancer drug treatment for women with GTN that does not respond to first‐line treatment or that re‐occurs. GTN is the name given to a type of cancer that arises from placental tissue following pregnancy, most frequently a molar pregnancy. Molar pregnancies are benign abnormal growths of placental tissue inside the womb. Most are cured by evacuation (D&C) of the womb, however, in up to 20% of cases they become malignant. GTN is usually very responsive to anti‐cancer drugs (chemotherapy), however, these drugs can be toxic, therefore the aim of treatment is to achieve a cure with the least side effects. To help doctors select the most appropriate treatment for women with GTN, the disease is classified as low‐ or high‐risk according to specific risk factors. 
Chemotherapy treatment for low‐risk GTN usually only requires a single drug, whereas high‐risk tumours are treated with a combination of drugs. The most common combination consisting of five drugs is abbreviated as EMA/CO. Doctors assess the response to treatment by checking the levels of the pregnancy hormone (hCG) in the blood. If the chemotherapy is deemed not to be working an alternative (or salvage) treatment must be started. This is necessary in about 25% of cases and a variety of drug combinations are in use. 
We undertook this review because it was unclear which of the various salvage combinations, if any, was the most effect and the least toxic. We searched the literature up to November 2015 to find all relevant studies. Unfortunately, we were unable to find any good quality studies that compared the different types of salvage treatments. This is partly because the disease has a high cure rate with several combination chemotherapy options, but is also owing to the rarity of the disease that makes recruiting for large studies difficult. Hence we were unable to draw conclusions about how these drug combinations compare with regard to their effectiveness and side effects, and we urge researchers in this field to collaborate to provide this important evidence. 
