The effect of administering pregnancy hormone into the womb of subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction 
Review question 
Does administering pregnancy hormone into the womb of subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction provide any benefit? 
Background 
Subfertility affects 15% of couples and is defined as the inability to become pregnant naturally following 12 months of regular unprotected sexual intercourse. Assisted reproduction refers to procedures involving handling of both sperm and eggs in the laboratory to create embryos to be transferred into the womb (embryo transfer (ET)). Administering natural or synthetic pregnancy hormone into the womb of subfertile women undergoing assisted reproduction treatment is a novel approach that might increase the chance of having a baby. 
Study characteristics 
We evaluated 17 studies (4751 women) comparing administration of pregnancy hormone versus no hormone. The natural or synthetic hormone was administered at variable doses at different times before ET. 
Key results 
Live birth rates in women having day three ET with human chorionic gonadotropin administered into the uterus (IC‐hCG) at a dose < 500 IU compared to women having day three ET without pregnancy hormone showed no benefit of the intervention and would be consistent with no substantive difference or disadvantage of indeterminate magnitude (very low‐quality evidence: one study; 280 women). In a clinic with a live birth rate of 49% per cycle following day three ET, use of a pregnancy hormone dose < 500 IU would be associated with a live birth rate varying from 28% to 50%. 
Live birth rate was increased in a subgroup of women having day three ET with a pregnancy hormone dose of 500 IU or greater compared to women having day three ET without pregnancy hormone (moderate‐quality evidence: three studies; 914 women). At a clinic with a live birth rate of 27% per cycle, use of a pregnancy hormone dose of 500 IU or greater would be associated with a live birth rate varying from 36% to 51%. 
