Interventions for the skin infection impetigo
Impetigo causes blister‐like sores. The sores can fill with pus and form scabs, and scratching can spread the infection. Impetigo is caused by bacteria. It is contagious and usually occurs in children. It is the most common bacterial skin infection presented by children to primary care physicians. Treatment options include topical antibiotics (antibiotic creams), oral antibiotics (antibiotics taken by mouth), and disinfectant solutions. There is no generally agreed standard treatment, and the evidence on what intervention works best is not clear. 
We identified 68 randomised controlled trials comparing various treatments for impetigo. Altogether, these studies evaluated 26 oral treatments and 24 topical treatments, including placebo, and results were described for 5708 participants. 
Overall, topical antibiotics showed better cure rates than topical placebo.
Two antibiotic creams, mupirocin and fusidic acid, are at least as effective as oral antibiotics where the disease is not extensive. There was no clear evidence that either of these most commonly studied topical antibiotics was more effective than the other. 
Topical mupirocin was superior to the oral antibiotic, oral erythromycin.
We found that the oral antibiotic, oral penicillin, is not effective for impetigo, while other oral antibiotics (e.g. erythromycin and cloxacillin) can help. 
It is unclear if oral antibiotics are superior to topical antibiotics for people with extensive impetigo. 
There is a lack of evidence to suggest that using disinfectant solutions improves impetigo. When 2 studies with 292 participants were pooled, topical antibiotics were significantly better than disinfecting treatments. 
Reported side‐effects for topical treatments were mild and low in frequency; the treatments sometimes resulted in itching, burning, or staining. Oral antibiotics produced gastrointestinal complaints, such as nausea and diarrhoea, in 2% to 30% of participants, depending upon the specific antibiotic. 
