Interventions for supporting pregnant women with decisions about mode of birth after previous caesarean 
Caesarean birth is increasingly common but this does not mean that all subsequent births are caesareans. Pregnant women who have had a previous caesarean birth may need to decide whether to have a planned caesarean birth or commence labour with the intention of a vaginal birth (VBAC). This can be a difficult decision and decision support tools may help women with their decision making. There are three main types of decision support. Women can use some decision support tools independently, the second type are intended to be shared with the health professionals responsible for a woman's care, and others are designed for use with a third party. Some call these mediated decision supports interventions. Decision supports can include telephone decision coaching services, decision‐aids, one‐on‐one counselling, group information or support sessions and decision protocols or algorithms. This review considered any decision support intervention intended for pregnant women making birth choices after a previous caesarean birth. 
We found three studies (involving 2270 women), all from high‐income countries, that were suitable for this review. The studies looked at the effectiveness of decision support tools designed to be used either independently by women or mediated through the involvement of someone not associated with their care support. No studies looked at shared decision support tools that were intended to help with shared decision making with the pregnant women and their health professionals during pregnancy care visits. 
We found that the use of these decision support tools made no difference to the type of birth women planned, how women actually gave birth, or in the number of women and babies who experienced harm, although only one study reported harms. There was also no difference in the proportion of women who were unsure about what they wanted. Overall, nearly 65% of women who wanted a VBAC achieved it, while almost all women wanting a caesarean birth had one (97%). We found no difference in the proportion of women who achieved their preferred mode of birth. However, women who used decisional support interventions had less uncertainty about their decision than those that did not use them. Research is needed on the effectiveness of decision support interventions designed to be shared between women and the health professionals caring for them in pregnancy after a caesarean birth. 
