Low molecular weight heparin for preventing blockage of blood vessels in replanted fingers or toes after amputation injuries 
Background 
Microvascular surgery refers to any surgery involving small‐sized blood vessels that is performed under the operating microscope, allowing, for example, for the repair of arteries and veins of amputated parts to the body. These vessels are typically 1 mm to 2 mm in diameter. Replantation is the reattachment of a completely detached body part, with fingers and thumbs being the most commonly replanted body parts. This is often referred to as digital replantation. In principle, digital replantation involves not only restoring the blood flow through the arteries and veins but also restoring the bony skeleton of the toes, fingers or thumbs, along with repairing the tendons and nerves, if necessary. Occlusion (blockage) of one or more of the repaired vessels due to the formation of a clot within the blood vessel can result in failure of the replantation. Anticoagulant medications are used to reduce clotting, and they could potentially prevent such a complication. Anticoagulants such as unfractionated heparin (UFH) have therefore been used to prevent clot formation after digital replantation. It is unclear if low molecular weight heparin (LMWH) has similar benefit. 
Key results 
A randomised controlled trial (RCT) is a clinical study in which people have an equal chance of receiving the treatment or a comparator. This systematic review identified four RCTs comparing LMWH with either UFH or no LMWH. The trials included a total of 258 people with at least 273 replanted fingers or toes (digits). The evidence is up‐to‐date to 17 March 2020. The trials differed in which results they reported and how they reported them, so we could not combine all the information. 
Three trials showed no evidence of a benefit of LMWH when compared with UFH in the success rate of replantation, microvascular insufficiency due to vessel occlusion (poor blood flow due to blockages in the small‐sized blood vessels), and side effects such as bleeding. There was no evidence of clear differences between the use of LMWH or no LWMH in the success rate of replantation in one study. Similarly, no evidence of clear differences in the incidence of reduced blood flow (compromised microcirculation) requiring further microvascular surgery (re‐exploration or incision), or causes of microvascular insufficiency due to vessel blockage, were detected in the study which analysed by digits or people. 
The limited evidence, which we judged to be of low to very low certainty, suggests there is no clear benefit of LMWH in increasing the success rate of replantation or preventing microvascular occlusion in digital replantation when compared to UFH or no LMWH. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The overall certainty of evidence is very low due to limitations in study design and reporting. For example, the studies did not take measures to hide from a person which treatment they had, and they reported results that were not stated in the original plan. The sample size of included studies was not large enough to provide precise effect estimates. There is a need for large studies that are designed to reduce these study limitations. 
