Physical therapies for reducing and controlling lymphoedema of the limbs
Lymphoedema is the build up of excess fluid in the body tissues because of obstruction of lymphatic drainage back into the bloodstream. The affected limb becomes swollen, distorted in shape with pain, discomfort all of which impair movement and daily activities. It can be caused by a congenital abnormality, chronic venous insufficiency, damage to the lymphatic system following treatment of cancer or filariasis, a parasitic infection endemic in parts of India and Africa. Skin care is important as the affected tissues gradually thicken and are susceptible to inflammation and infections. People are also encouraged to exercise regularly and control their weight. Different physical treatments aimed at improved lymph drainage include multi‐layer bandaging, manual lymph drainage (MLD), self‐administered massage and compression sleeves or hosiery. 
The authors of this review, which aimed to assess the effect of physical treatment programmes on the long‐term control of lymphoedema, identified only three controlled trials for inclusion. These randomised a total of 150 adults to different levels of physical treatment. One trial involved 42 women with unilateral lymphoedema of the upper limb following treatment for breast cancer. One group received eight sessions of MLD in two weeks and training in self‐massage and both this group and the control group wore flat‐knit compression sleeves. The reductions in excess arm volume and symptoms were similar in the two groups. 
A second trial involved 25 women from a local follow‐up breast clinic. They were trained in self‐administered massage and randomised to wear an elastic compression sleeve or no additional treatment. The dropout rate was high, particularly in the control group, although the authors concluded that wearing a compression sleeve was beneficial. The third trial involved 83 mostly female participants from a lymphoedema clinic. Around two thirds had upper limb oedema. They were all taught self‐administered massage. One group received a 19‐day bandaging course before being fitted with hosiery. The other group wore hosiery from the start of the trial. The reduction in excess limb volume was consistently greater in those who started with multi‐layer bandaging. 
