Yoga for urinary incontinence in women
Review question 
We examined whether yoga is useful for treating urinary incontinence in women. We compared yoga to no treatment and to other treatments for incontinence. We also compared yoga added to other treatments to other treatments alone. We focused on incontinence symptoms, quality of life and adverse effects. We also looked for information on the value for money of yoga treatment. 
Background 
Up to 15% of women who are middle‐aged or older may have urinary incontinence. Incontinence can be categorised as urgency urinary incontinence, defined as an involuntary loss of urine associated with a sudden strong desire to urinate, or stress urinary incontinence, where an activity such as sneezing triggers an involuntary leak of urine. Both types can negatively affect quality of life and social, psychological and sexual functioning. Treating incontinence usually begins with advice on lifestyle changes such as lowering caffeine use, behavioural interventions such as bladder training or exercises for the pelvic floor muscles. However, many women are interested in additional treatments such as yoga, a system of philosophy, lifestyle and physical practice that originated in ancient India. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The evidence is current to 21 June 2018.
Study characteristics 
We found two studies involving a total of 49 women. One was a six‐week study comparing yoga to a waiting list (delayed treatment) in women with either stress or urgency urinary incontinence. The other was an eight‐week study comparing yoga to mindfulness‐based stress reduction (MBSR) in women with urgency urinary incontinence. We also identified an ongoing study involving 50 women that aims to compare yoga with stretching; we will include this study when the results are reported. 
Key results 
The trial comparing yoga to a waiting list did not report the number of women reporting cure but did report on symptoms, condition‐specific quality of life and adverse effects. While this comparison generally favoured the yoga intervention, we are uncertain whether yoga improves urinary incontinence due to the very low certainty of the evidence. There was no difference between groups in the number of women reporting an adverse event and no serious adverse events were reported, but we are uncertain whether yoga increases harms as the certainty of the evidence is very low. 
The trial comparing yoga to MBSR reported on symptoms and condition‐specific quality of life but did not report the number of women reporting cure. While this comparison generally favoured the MBSR intervention, we are uncertain whether yoga improves urinary incontinence due to the very low certainty of the evidence. There was no information on adverse events. 
We did not find any information on the value for money of yoga for urinary incontinence.
Quality of the evidence 
Although we identified some evidence on yoga treatment for treating urinary incontinence in women, the included studies were very small and there were issues with the way they were conducted, which limits our confidence in the results. Due to the nature of the treatments, the participants and staff of the trial comparing yoga to a waiting list were aware of which groups the participants were assigned and it is possible that the women in the yoga group reported some benefits because they expected yoga to be helpful. The trial comparing yoga to MBSR did not intend to test yoga as a treatment for incontinence. Instead, the trial tested MBSR as a treatment and used yoga classes to ensure that women in the comparison group received attention from the study staff. In addition, the trial comparing yoga to MBSR did not collect outcomes on all women and it is possible that the women who reported outcomes had either better or worse results than the women who did not report outcomes. There is currently insufficient good‐quality evidence to judge whether yoga is useful for women with urinary incontinence. 
