Medicines to prevent hearing loss in children receiving platinum chemotherapy for cancer 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence of the effectiveness of any medical intervention to prevent hearing loss in children with cancer treated with platinum‐based therapy (i.e. including the anticancer drugs cisplatin, carboplatin, oxaliplatin or a combination of these). We also looked at anticancer effectiveness, side effects other than hearing loss and quality of life. 
Background 
Platinum‐based chemotherapy, including cisplatin, carboplatin, oxaliplatin or a combination of these, is used in the treatment of different types of childhood cancer. Unfortunately, one of the most important side effects of platinum chemotherapy is hearing loss. This can occur not only during treatment but also years after the end of treatment. Although it is not life‐threatening, the loss of hearing, especially during the first three years of life, may lead to difficulties with school performance and psychosocial functioning. Prevention of platinum‐induced hearing loss is thus very important and might improve the quality of life of children undergoing cancer treatment and those who have survived treatment with platinum‐based chemotherapy. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to January 2019.
We found two randomized studies (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) and one controlled study (clinical studies where people are put into one of two or more treatment groups but this is not done in a random way) (149 participants), all comparing amifostine with no additional treatment. Two studies included children with osteosarcoma (a type of bone cancer), the other study included children with hepatoblastoma (a type of liver cancer). Combining the results of the included studies was not possible. It is not clear how long participants were monitored. 
We also found one randomized study (109 children with localized hepatoblastoma) comparing sodium thiosulfate with no additional treatment. Half of the participants were monitored for more than four years. 
Key results 
At the moment there is no evidence from individual studies showing that the use of amifostine prevents hearing loss. Only one study reported results on cancer response and side effects, so we could make no definitive conclusions. None of the studies assessed survival and quality of life. Hearing loss seemed to be lower with the use of sodium thiosulfate, but the effect of sodium thiosulfate on cancer response and side effects was uncertain. We identified no adequate studies for other possible drugs to prevent hearing loss and for other types of cancer. Before definitive conclusions can be made about the usefulness of possible medicines to prevent hearing loss (amifostine, sodium thiosulfate or another medicine) in children treated with platinum chemotherapy more high‐quality research is needed. 
