Arm exercise training for COPD
Review question: we reviewed the effects of arm training on symptoms of breathlessness and quality of life in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Background: people with COPD often have difficulty with performing arm exercise due to breathlessness. Consequently, arm exercise training is often used to improve arm exercise capacity; however, the effects of this training on breathlessness and quality of life remain unclear. We wanted to examine arm exercise training of at least four weeks' duration and we analysed this in three ways: a) arm exercise training compared to no arm training or a sham intervention; b) a combination of arm training and leg training compared to leg training only; and c) arm training compared to another type of arm training (e.g. arm endurance training to arm strength training). 
Study characteristics: fifteen studies were included on 425 participants with COPD. However, only 12 studies provided sufficient information for analysis across one or more of the three comparisons described above. 
Key results: when arm training was compared to no arm training or a sham intervention in people with COPD, there was a small improvement in breathlessness. However, this improvement was not evident when the studies of combined arm and leg training were compared to leg training alone. No studies have examined whether breathlessness improves more with different types of arm training. Arm training had no effect on quality of life in any of the three comparisons. When endurance arm training was specifically examined, there was an improvement seen in the capacity of the arms to move and lift light weights compared to no training. These effects were not seen with arm strength training. 
Quality of the evidence: the quality of the included studies was low to moderate due to the small number of participants (ranging from 12 to 43 participants per study), missing information on the methods of the study, and incomplete data on the outcomes. 
Conclusions: some form of arm training can provide a small improvement to breathlessness but does not improve the quality of life of people with COPD. More specifically, endurance arm training can increase the capacity of the arms to move light weights in people with COPD. 
