Which types of medicines work best when injected into the hand to treat a painful swollen finger (trigger finger)? 
Key messages 
1. A single injection of a medicine called an NSAID (non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug) to treat trigger finger offered little to no benefit 6 months later 
2. One injection of an NSAID may not work better than one injection of a steroid to treat the symptoms of trigger finger 
3. More people may continue to have moderate to severe symptoms 3 to 6 months after an NSAID injection compared with those who had a steroid injection 
4. There were no differences in the numbers of unwanted effects reported after injections of either type of medicine (steroid or non‐steroid) 
What is trigger finger? 
Trigger finger is a condition that affects one or more of the tendons in your hand. Tendons are tissues that join muscle to bone, to let you move your joints. When a tendon in your hand is swollen and inflamed, bending the affected finger is difficult and painful. Without treatment, the affected finger may become permanently bent, making everyday tasks difficult. 
Treating trigger finger 
For some people, trigger finger might get better without treatment. If it doesn't, treatments include: 
1. rest ‐ avoiding certain activities;
2. physical therapy;
3. strapping the finger to a piece of plastic (splint) to reduce movement;
4. medicines known as NSAIDs taken by mouth or directly through the skin to reduce pain; and 
5. steroid medicines injected to reduce swelling.
If none of these treatments works, surgery may be needed to help the tendon move freely again. 
Why did we do this Cochrane Review? 
Injecting steroid medicines into the hand to treat trigger finger may cause unwanted effects. We wanted to find out if injecting NSAID medicines into the hand could help people with trigger finger and cause fewer unwanted effects than steroids. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested NSAID medicines injected to treat trigger finger. We compared results of the studies we found to arrive at an overall estimate of how well an NSAID injection can treat trigger finger. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We included evidence up to 30 September 2020.
What did we find? 
We found 2 studies in 231 adults (average age 59 years; 60% women) who were treated for trigger finger at outpatient clinics in Singapore and Malaysia. One study lasted 3 months; the other lasted 6 months. One study did not report its source of funding; the other study received no commercial funding. 
In both studies, the people taking part were given one injection of either:
1. a steroid medicine (called triamcinolone); or
2. an NSAID (diclofenac or ketorolac).
What are the main results of our review? 
Compared with a steroid injection, an NSAID injection may have little to no effect on: 
1. whether symptoms disappear (evidence from 2 studies in 231 people);
2. how much someone can move the affected finger 3 to 6 months later (1 study in 99 people); 
3. how many people still have pain after 3 to 6 months of treatment (2 studies in 231 people); and 
4. how many people say their treatment was successful (1 study in 121 people).
On average, for every 100 people treated:
1. symptoms may disappear after 3 months in 34 people who had an NSAID compared to 41 people who had a steroid; 
2. 28 people who had an NSAID may still have moderate to severe symptoms after 3 to 6 months compared to 14 people who had a steroid; 
3. 20 people who had an NSAID may still feel pain after 3 to 6 months compared to 24 people who had a steroid; 
4. 64 people who had an NSAID may say their treatment was successful compared to 68 people who had a steroid. 
We are uncertain if an NSAID injection:
1. affects whether symptoms of trigger finger come back after treatment; or
2. causes fewer unwanted effects than a steroid injection (evidence from 2 studies in 231 people). 
Limitations of the evidence 
Our confidence in the results is limited because they come from two small studies only. These studies used different doses of steroid for injection, which may have affected our comparison of the studies. Further research is likely to change these results or increase our confidence in them.. 
