Antipsychotic medications for cocaine dependence
Background 
Cocaine dependence is often associated with medical, psychological and social problems for individual and public health, generating problems for the community. Users play a role in the spread of infectious diseases such as AIDS, hepatitis and tuberculosis, as well as in crime, violence and neonatal drug exposure. Use of drugs such as antidepressants, anticonvulsants and dopamine agonists to treat cocaine abuse or dependence is not supported by evidence from Cochrane reviews. The use of antipsychotic agents has also been considered, particularly because cocaine can induce hallucinations and paranoia that mimic psychosis. 
Study characteristics 
The review authors identified 14 randomised controlled trials involving 719 adults. One study was conducted in Italy, and the rest in the USA. They involve both inpatient and outpatient settings and had a duration of 14 to 168 days (mean 80 days). Eleven trials randomised participants to receive an antipsychotic drug or placebo using the following antipsychotic medications: risperidone (three studies, 1 to 4 mg/day and one study with injections of long‐acting risperidone at a dose of 25 mg/14 days); olanzapine (three studies, 2.5 to 20 mg/day); quetiapine (two studies, 400 and 800 mg/day); lamotrigine (one study, 400 mg/day); reserpine (one study, 50 mg/day). Three trials compared two drugs; olanzapine (10 mg/day) versus haloperidol (10 mg/day), olanzapine (20 mg/day) versus risperidone (9 mg/day) and aripiprazol (10 mg/day) versus ropirinol (4.5 mg/day). 
Key results 
The studies used different instruments or ways to assess the outcomes of interest, limiting the possibility for us to combine the data. When we grouped together all trial results comparing any antipsychotic drug to placebo, we found that antipsychotics slightly increase those who stayed in treatment but they were not effective in reducing cocaine use during treatment (two studies), in sustained abstinence (three studies), or in reducing the urge to consume cocaine (four studies). The single comparisons of each drug versus placebo or versus another drug were made in few trials with small sample sizes, limiting the reliability of the results. However, among these comparisons, only quetiapine seemed to perform better than placebo in reducing cocaine use and craving, but results came only from one study with 60 participants. Information was limited on the acceptability of treatment in terms of side effects, abstinence from cocaine use and withdrawal symptoms. Overall we found no evidence supporting the clinical use of antipsychotic medications in the treatment of cocaine dependence. 
