Does 5‐ASA prevent the recurrence of diverticulitis?
Background 
Diverticula are small bulging pouches that can form in the lining of the digestive system, particularly in the colon. Diverticulitis is inflammation of these pouches, and it is an important complication of diverticular disease. Approximately one‐third to one‐quarter of patients who recover from one episode of diverticulitis will experience recurrence. The inflammation underlying diverticulitis may be similar to that seen in inflammatory bowel disease. 5‐Aminosalicylic acid (5‐ASA) is an anti‐inflammatory drug that has proved effective as treatment for ulcerative colitis and therefore may be useful for prevention of recurrent diverticulitis 
Objectives 
We aimed to evaluate whether 5‐ASA prevented recurrence of diverticulitis.
Study characteristics 
A review of the literature identified seven studies with a total of 1805 participants for analysis. A search of the literature was conducted on 9 September 2017. These trials assigned participants with a diagnosis of diverticulitis to receive 5‐ASA or an alternative therapy. Four trials compared 5‐ASA versus placebo; one compared 5‐ASA plus probiotic versus probiotic; one compared 5‐ASA plus antibiotic versus antibiotic; and one compared 5‐ASA versus no therapy. Participants were followed to compare the recurrence rate of diverticulitis and side effects among treatment arms. 
Key findings 
Our analysis determined that approximately one‐third of participants receiving 5‐ASA had recurrence of diverticulitis (31.3%). Participants receiving non‐5‐ASA therapy experienced a similar rate of recurrence (29.8%). Adverse event rates were similar among 5‐ASA therapy and comparison therapies. The most commonly reported side effects of 5‐ASA therapy were gastrointestinal symptoms (epigastric pain, nausea, and diarrhoea). 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, the quality of evidence available for analysis of recurrence of diverticulitis is considered to be very low. None of the included studies was considered to have low risk of bias for all criteria. These trials were designed differently. For example, some studies required a CT scan for diagnosis of diverticulitis, and others relied on less reliable clinical and laboratory criteria. Comparison therapies varied, with some studies using placebo, and others using antibiotics and probiotics. Although we combined the findings of these studies in our analysis, these different comparison arms made direct comparisons problematic. The confidence interval does not exclude an appreciable benefit or no difference. 
