How accurate is dermoscopy compared to visual inspection of the skin for diagnosing skin cancer (melanoma) in adults? 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out the accuracy of dermoscopy for the diagnosis of melanoma in comparison to visual inspection of the skin with the naked eye. The Review also investigated whether diagnostic accuracy using dermoscopy on a patient in person differed to the accuracy of diagnosis using dermoscopic images of the skin. Researchers in Cochrane included 104 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of melanoma important? 
Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms of skin cancer. Not recognising a melanoma when it is present (a false‐negative test result), delays surgery to remove it, risking cancer spreading to other organs in the body, and possibly death. Diagnosing a skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) as a melanoma when it is not (a false‐positive result), may result in unnecessary surgery, further investigations and patient anxiety. Visual inspection of suspicious skin lesions by a clinician using the naked eye is usually the first of a series of ‘tests’ to diagnose melanoma. Magnification techniques can be used by skin cancer specialists to allow a more detailed examination of suspicious skin lesions than can be achieved using the naked eye alone. 
What was studied in the review? 
A dermatoscope is a handheld device using visible light (such as from incandescent or LED bulbs), that can be used as part of the clinical examination of suspicious skin lesions. Dermoscopy has become an important tool to assist diagnosis by specialist clinicians and is also increasingly used in primary care settings. Knowing the diagnostic accuracy of dermoscopy added to visual inspection alone is important to understanding who it should be used by and in which healthcare settings. 
Researchers sought to find out the diagnostic accuracy of dermoscopy of suspicious skin lesions on a patient in person and using dermoscopic images compared to visual inspection alone. Researchers also sought to find out whether diagnostic accuracy was improved by use of a dermoscopy checklist or by an increase in level of clinical expertise. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included 104 studies reporting data for people with lesions suspected of melanoma. The main results for the diagnosis of melanoma (including very early melanomas), are based on 86 of the studies, 26 of which provide information on the accuracy of dermoscopy added to in‐person visual inspection of a skin lesion and 60 provide information based on examination of dermoscopic images without the patient being present. 
The 26 in‐person studies provide the most relevant data for the use of dermoscopy in practice and their results are summarised here. A total of 23,169 suspicious skin lesions were included in the 26 studies and 13 of them also provided information on the accuracy of visual inspection of a lesion without the use of dermoscopy. The results suggest that dermoscopy is more accurate than visual inspection on its own, both for identifying melanoma correctly and excluding things that are not melanoma. 
