Interventions for idiopathic steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome in children
What is the issue? 
Nephrotic syndrome is a condition where the kidneys leak protein from the blood into the urine. Corticosteroids are used in the first instance to achieve remission. Other agents such as calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporin, tacrolimus) or angiotensin‐converting enzyme inhibitors are required for those children do not respond to corticosteroids in their first episode of nephrotic syndrome (initial resistance) or who develop steroid resistance after one or more responses to corticosteroids (delayed resistance). 
What did we do? 
We searched Cochrane Kidney and Transplant's Specialised Register (up to 17 September 2019). Randomised controlled trials were included if they compared different immunosuppressive agents or non‐immunosuppressive agents with placebo, prednisone or other agent in children with steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome. Studies of new treatments were included as these included children as well as adults. 
What did we find? 
This review found that cyclosporin compared with placebo, no treatment or prednisone may increase the number of participants, in whom urine protein disappears (complete remission) or is markedly reduced (partial remission). Calcineurin inhibitors (cyclosporin, tacrolimus) also may increase the number of children, who achieve complete or partial remission compared with intravenous cyclophosphamide. There may be little or no benefit of other immunosuppressive agents studied so far. Angiotensin‐converting enzyme inhibitors may reduce the amount of protein in the urine. 
Conclusions 
Calcineurin inhibitors may increase the likelihood of complete or partial remission compared with placebo/no treatment or cyclophosphamide. However, the certainty of the evidence is low because the studies were small. It remains uncertain whether other interventions may alter outcomes due to few small studies. Larger and well‐designed randomised controlled trials are needed to evaluate other treatment combinations for children with steroid resistant nephrotic syndrome. 
