The health benefits of exercise for people with chronic hip and knee pain from osteoarthritis
Researchers conducted a review of the effect of exercise on physical, emotional and mental health for people with long lasting (chronic) knee or hip joint pain from osteoarthritis. The studies examined were from Europe, North America, Asia and Australasia, and included clinical settings, home exercise and sessions at leisure facilities. Studies included men and woman aged 45 years and over. 
What is chronic joint pain and what is exercise? 
Chronic knee and hip pain from osteoarthritis (breakdown of the bone and cartilage, causing pain and stiffness) is a common cause of physical disability, anxiety, depression, poor quality of life and social problems (such as feeling a burden). Exercise is recommended to reduce pain and disability, and improves people's health beliefs, depression, anxiety and quality of life. We wanted to improve understanding of the relationships between pain, movement ability, psychological issues such as depression and anxiety, how chronic pain affects social relationships, and exercise. 
What happens to people with chronic knee or hip pain who take part in exercise programmes? 
A search of medical databases up to March 2016 found 21 studies with 2372 people which considered pain, movement or both alongside psychological and social outcomes when people with pain and stiffness in their knee, hip, or both took part in exercise. Participation in exercise programmes probably slightly improves pain, physical function, depression, and ability to connect with others, and little or no difference in anxiety. It may improve belief in one's own abilities, and social function. 
The studies confirmed that:
‐ people who exercised rated their pain to be 1.2 points lower on a scale of 0 to 20 after about 45 weeks (score: 5.3 with exercise compared with 6.5 with no exercise (control), an improvement of 6%). 
‐ physical function improved by about 5% over 41 weeks (exercise group improved by 5.6 points on a scale of 0 to 100 (44.3 with exercise compared with 49.9 with control)). 
‐ people's confidence in what they could do increased by 2% after 35 weeks (exercise group improved by 1.1 points on a scale of 17 to 85 (65.4 with exercise compared with 64.3 with control)). 
‐ people who exercised were 2% less depressed, or half a point on a scale of 0 to 21, after 35 weeks (3.0 points with exercise compared with 3.5 with control). 
‐ exercise made people feel less anxious about themselves by 2%, a 0.4 drop on a 0 to 21 scale, after 24 weeks (5.4 points with exercise compared with 5.8 with control). 
‐ exercise resulted in social interaction improving by 7.9 points over 36 weeks on a scale of 0 to 100, giving a change of 8% (81.5 with exercise compared with 73.6 with control). 
