Tricyclic drugs for depressed children and adolescents
Depression affects about one in 20 young people, and can contribute to a variety of negative outcomes, such as poor academic functioning and difficulties in peer and family relationships. Depression also increases the risk for substance use, self harm and suicide. Beginning with imipramine, tricyclic drugs were developed from the late 1950s to alleviate the symptoms of depression. They were designed to enhance the availability of serotonin and noradrenaline to brain cells. Tricyclic drugs were first prescribed to children and adolescents for depression in the early 1960s, but were more commonly prescribed to children for the treatment of bedwetting. Since this Cochrane review was first published in 2000, tricyclic drugs have been replaced in most countries by newer‐generation antidepressants. 
This review contained 14 trials (with 590 participants) and tested the effectiveness of tricyclic drugs against placebo. Trial data were available for amitriptyline, desipramine, imipramine and nortriptyline. Based on nine trials (454 participants), there was no evidence that tricyclic drugs lead to higher rates of remission or response than placebo. Based on 13 of the trials (533 participants), there was evidence that people treated with a tricyclic drug had lower depression severity scores than those on placebo, however, the size of this difference was small. Consistent with their known mechanism of action, tricyclic drugs were more likely than placebo to cause vertigo, symptoms of lowered blood pressure, tremor and dry mouth. Subgroup analyses of six trials involving only adolescents (239 participants) and two trials involving only children (77 participants) found no evidence of differential rates of remission or response between the age groups. In contrast, there was lowering of depression scores in eight trials involving only adolescents (414 participants) and no lowering of depression scores in three trials involving only children (64 participants). 
Most of the included studies were conducted in the era before standard methods for conducting treatment trials for depression in children and adolescents came about. There were considerable differences between the studies with regards to the clinical tools and methods used in assessment of improvement. Most trials were small. Only two trials produced a definitive result for depressive symptoms, and no trial produced a definitive result for response or remission. There was typically insufficient information to judge the quality of the trials accurately. With these limitations, it is difficult to answer questions about the effectiveness and safety of tricyclic drugs for treating depression in children and adolescents. Current evidence suggests that the situation is much the same for newer‐generation antidepressants. Clinicians need to provide accurate information to children and adolescents, and their families, about the uncertainties regarding the benefits and risks of antidepressants as a treatment option for depression. Tricyclic drugs do not seem useful for treating children before puberty, and are, at most, of moderate benefit for adolescents. 
