Non‐speech oral motor treatment for children with developmental speech sound disorders
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of non‐speech oral motor treatment (NSOMT) for treating children with developmental speech sound disorders who have speech errors. 
Background 
Children with developmental speech sound disorders have difficulties in producing the speech sounds of their own language. These speech difficulties could be due to structural, sensory or neurophysiological causes (e.g. hearing impairment), but more often the cause of the problem is unknown. One treatment approach used by speech and language therapists or pathologists consists of non‐speech oral motor treatments (NSOMTs). NSOMTs are activities that aim to stimulate or improve speech production and treat children with specific speech errors without requiring that the child produce a speech sound. This method of therapy uses exercises, such as smiling, pursing, blowing into horns and blowing bubbles and performing lip massage to target lip mobility for the production of speech sounds involving the lips, such as /p/, /b/ and /m/. Whether NSOMTs are effective for treating children with speech errors is controversial. Therefore, evidence regarding the effects of NSOMTs must be examined. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to April 2014. We found three studies (from four reports) involving a total of 22 children aged three to nine years who received a combination of NSOMTs and articulation or phonological therapy (intervention group), or articulation or phonological therapy alone (control group). One study was a randomised controlled trial in which four boys with speech sound disorders were randomly assigned to one of the two groups. In this study, each participant received 16 × 30‐minute individual therapy sessions, twice per week over eight weeks, to treat the speech sound 's'. For the intervention group, NSOMT (oral placement therapy) was conducted in the first 10 minutes of each session, followed by 20‐minute articulation therapy. The other two studies used randomisation, but the method used to generate the random sequence was not reported. In one of these studies, six boys and four girls, all with speech sound disorders due to tongue thrust, were randomly assigned to one of the two groups. Each participant received 22 × 30‐minute individual sessions conducted weekly in the first six weeks, and twice a week in the following eight weeks, to treat 's' and 'z' sounds. The intervention group received NSOMT (Hanson's 1977 approach) in the first six weeks and alternating sessions of NSOMT and articulation therapy in the following eight weeks. The final study randomly assigned four boys and four girls with moderate to severe articulation disorder alone to either intervention group or control group. Each participant received 9 × 20‐minute group therapy sessions (two participants in each group), conducted twice a week over five weeks. For the intervention group, NSOMT (oral motor exercises for speech clarity) was conducted during the first 10 minutes of each session. Speech errors associated with the 's' sound were treated for the intervention group; however, the speech sound(s) treated for the control group were not detailed. None of the studies reported funding support. 
Key results 
Two studies (one that used oral placement therapy and one that used Hanson's 1977 approach) did not find NSOMT as an adjunctive treatment to be more effective than conventional speech intervention only, as both intervention and control groups had made similar improvements in articulation after treatment (i.e. fewer speech errors or increased percentage of correct articulation). The study that used oral motor exercises for speech clarity as the NSOMT reported a change in articulation test results after treatment, but used an inappropriate statistical test and did not report the results clearly. 
Quality of the evidence 
The three included studies were small in scale and had a number of serious methodological limitations. Moreover, these studies covered limited types of NSOMTs for treating just one class of speech sounds ‐ 's' with or without 'z' ‐ in children with speech sound disorders. Hence, the overall applicability of the evidence is limited, and the evidence is believed to be incomplete and of low quality. To conclude, currently no strong evidence indicates whether NSOMTs are effective as treatment or adjunctive treatment for children with developmental speech sound disorders. 
