Can programmes on social media help people to improve their health?
Key messages 
Programmes on social media (such as Facebook or Twitter) that aim to increase physical activity may help people to become more physically active and may improve people's well‐being. 
Future studies are needed to find out if there are any unwanted effects associated with taking part in interactive social media programmes. 
What is social media? 
Social media are computer‐based technologies that help people to share ideas, thoughts and information by building virtual networks and communities on the Internet; examples include, Facebook, Twitter or WhatsApp. Social media networks are 'interactive': the user communicates directly with a computer, or other device, to share and receive information. 
What did we want to find out? 
People who use social media can exchange ideas and share updates about their behaviours, such as becoming more active or eating more healthily. We wanted to find out if health programmes using interactive social media could change people's behaviours and improve their health. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested the effects of interactive social media programmes on people's health. We were interested in how the programmes might affect people's: 
‐ health behaviours (such as smoking, drinking alcohol, breastfeeding, dieting, physical activity; seeking and using health services); 
‐ health (such as physical fitness, lung function, asthma episodes);
‐ mental health (such as measures of depression, stress, coping);
‐ well‐being; and
‐ whether people reported any unwanted effects related to interactive social media programmes. 
How up to date is this review? 
We included evidence published up to 1 June 2020.
What did we find? 
We found 88 studies involving 871,378 adults (aged 18 years and older). Most studies (49) took place in the USA; all studies took place in either high‐income countries or upper middle‐income countries. Facebook was the most commonly used social media platform; others included WeChat, Twitter, WhatsApp and Google Hangouts. 
