Do organizational changes to support people quitting smoking improve services and help more people to quit? 
Background 
Smoking is a cause of many health problems, including cancers, heart and lung diseases. Health professionals (e.g. doctors, nurses, pharmacists, dentists, etc.) may be able to reduce this harm by helping smokers to quit during a clinic visit. However, it may be difficult for health care providers to recognize smokers. They may also feel they cannot deliver good support as they do not have enough time, skills, training, budget or resources. A change within health professionals' wider organization may help to improve their involvement in care to help people to stop smoking, and in turn improve the chances of them quitting smoking. These changes may include introducing a system for asking patients if they smoke and recording smoking status on the patient health records; providing health care providers with training, budget or resources to help them deliver more effective quitting support; identifying a dedicated staff member to provide quitting support; introducing new rules to restrict smoking or support quitting activities; introducing advice to quit smoking into routine care; and paying health workers for delivering cessation support. This review aimed to find out whether implementing these organizational changes improves health professionals’ involvement in quit smoking activities, and whether it helps smokers stop smoking. We assessed the following activities by health professionals to evaluate their involvement in quit smoking activities: 1) asking about tobacco use; 2) documenting smoking status on patient health records; 3) advising smokers to quit; 4) counselling to quit; 5) providing medicines to quit smoking; and 6) referring to other centers such as quitlines (a telephone support service for smokers to quit) where smokers can obtain further help. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies published up to February 2016.
Our search identified seven studies which investigated changes made to the way organizations offered stop‐smoking support in healthcare settings; six studies were conducted in the USA and one in Spain. Two studies evaluated the changes implemented in primary care clinics and another two studies evaluated changes in dental clinics. One study each evaluated changes in community pharmacy, Veterans Affairs Medical Center and pediatric practice. All included studies were supported or funded by government agencies. 
None of the studies implemented all the recommended changes or activities listed above. Five studies implemented four types of changes and two studies implemented three types of changes. Identifying all smokers, training health professionals and advising smokers to quit were part of all included studies. 
