How can communication about the end of life and care in the last 12 months of life be improved? 
Key messages 
We did not find enough good quality evidence to be able to say which ways of communicating about end of life (EoL) are best for the people involved. One study of a family conference intervention found that communication interventions might increase the length of EoL discussions between families and health professionals in some situations, and one other found that an intervention which used a structured conversation guide might lead to earlier discussions between patients, carers, and health professionals about EoL and EoL care. We did not find any evidence of harmful or negative effects of communication interventions, and we are uncertain about effects on outcomes like knowledge or quality of EoL care. 
Why is communication at the end of life important? 
When people are in the last year of their life, it is important that they receive high‐quality care (refer to ACSQHC 2015 and 2015b references for more on care at end of life). Communication about EoL is a critical part of such care. It helps patients and their families and carers to understand what is happening, to know what to expect and what their options are, to ask questions and receive support, and to be involved in decisions and planning as much as they would like to be. Communication about EoL is not always done well and this can have negative effects. Understanding how to improve such communication between the different people involved in care at EoL (patients, family members, carers, health professionals) is important to help ensure that people receive the best possible care in the time leading up to death. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out which ways of communicating with patients and carers might be best for improving people’s knowledge about the EoL (e.g. what to expect, treatment options). 
What people thought about the communication (e.g. satisfaction, communication quality, how involved they were and wanted to be in consultations). Discussions about end of life (e.g. how often these happened, and when). 
We also wanted to find out if communication interventions might increase unwanted or harmful effects, like fear or distress. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at communication interventions compared with usual care (care that is provided routinely or as the standard way of treating people), or comparing one type of communication (e.g. providing information) with another (e.g. providing information together with support), in people of all ages from birth onwards and who were expected to die within 12 months. We summarised the results of the included studies and rated our confidence in the evidence based on factors such as study size, study methods, and the people studied by the trials. 
To ensure this review's focus was maintained on interpersonal communication in the last 12 months of life, we excluded studies that addressed specific decisions, shared or otherwise, and the tools involved in such decision‐making. We also excluded studies focused on advance care planning (ACP) reporting ACP uptake or completion as the primary outcome. Finally, we excluded studies of communication skills training for health professionals unless patient outcomes were reported as primary outcomes. 
What did we find? 
We found eight studies that compared the effects of communication interventions for people at EoL with usual care. Interventions were varied and ranged from simple approaches like a list to help patients and carers ask questions in consultations, through to complex structured conversation interventions to engage patients and carers in discussions about EoL and the care they wished to receive. 
We found that a family conference intervention may increase the length of EoL discussions in some situations, and a structured serious illness conversation guide might lead to earlier discussions between patients, carers and health professionals about EoL and EoL care.  
We also found there may be little effect of communication interventions on knowledge, on what people thought about the communication (e.g. quality of communication, how involved in the discussion they would like to be) or on outcomes like numbers of questions asked by patients in consultations with their doctors. We did not find any evidence of harmful or negative effects of the interventions, but the studies were mostly small and not designed primarily to identify these. 
There may also be little effect on the other outcomes we looked for, like quality of life, quality of EoL care, or numbers of care goals met. In other cases, we are unsure because there was little or no evidence available (e.g. health professional outcomes like knowledge or confidence to communicate, or health service use e.g. hospital admissions). 
What are the limitations of the evidence?  
We have very little confidence in the evidence: included studies only looked at communication for older adults in high‐income countries, whereas the review looked for evidence across the whole lifespan and irrespective of country and setting. Additionally, included studies often studied small numbers of people. 
