Are oral homeopathic medicinal products effective and safe to prevent and treat acute respiratory tract infections in children? 
Review question 
We investigated whether oral homeopathic medicinal products are effective and safe to prevent or treat acute respiratory tract infections (ARTIs) in children compared with an inactive (placebo) treatment or other medicines. 
Background 
Most respiratory infections resolve without treatment, but sometimes symptoms persist after the initial infection has gone. Treatment is therefore aimed at relieving symptoms. Respiratory infections are commonly caused by viruses, especially colds and flu, though some lung and ear infections are caused by bacteria. It may be difficult to distinguish between viral and bacterial infections, and they may coexist. Antibiotics are often prescribed for respiratory infections even though they are ineffective against viruses. 
Children have on average three to six respiratory tract infections annually. Although most are mild and treatable, they sometimes require hospital treatment, and very rarely result in death. 
Homeopathy may treat respiratory infections with few side effects, but its effectiveness and safety has not been well researched. 
We assessed evidence from randomised controlled trials (studies that allocate people by chance to receive treatment), which is the best way to assess the safety and efficacy of medical treatments. 
Search date 
Our evidence is current to 27 November 2017.
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies involving 1562 children that compared oral homeopathic treatment to either placebo or standard treatment to prevent or treat respiratory infections in children. All studies investigated upper respiratory tract (from the nose to the windpipe (trachea)) infections, but one combined reporting of upper and lower respiratory tract (from the windpipe to the lungs and pleura (membranes covering the lungs)) infections, so the numbers of children with upper or lower infections is unknown. 
