Interventions to promote the use of evidence‐based practice in stroke rehabilitation
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether implementation strategies to encourage healthcare professionals to use evidence in stroke rehabilitation are effective. Examples of implementation strategies include education workshops, educational materials or providing feedback to healthcare professionals about their performance. The review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found nine studies. 
Key messages 
We could not obtain a reliable estimate of the effect of implementation strategies in stroke rehabilitation on healthcare professional adherence to evidence‐based practice at 12 months because the evidence is of very low quality. 
What was studied in the review? 
Patients who have a stroke and participate in rehabilitation do not always receive treatments based on evidence. Considerable research has been conducted in stroke rehabilitation but this information does not easily translate to clinical practice or it takes a long time to be used by healthcare professionals. Strategies are needed to help healthcare professionals use best evidence when working with stroke survivors. 
We included studies that compared a group of healthcare professionals receiving support to use evidence in stroke rehabilitation with another group who did not. We were interested to see whether healthcare professionals used more evidence in practice, whether patients adhered to evidence‐based recommendations from healthcare professionals, and whether patient health and well‐being improved. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found nine studies from five countries; Australia, Canada, Malaysia, the UK and the US. Four studies reported on whether healthcare professionals increased their use of evidence in their work with stroke survivors. Studies compared healthcare professionals who received support to use evidence in stroke rehabilitation with healthcare professionals who did not receive support or received a different type of support. 
We are uncertain if implementation strategies to support healthcare professionals to use evidence in stroke rehabilitation improve their practice compared to no support as the quality of the evidence is very low. The review found that strategies to encourage healthcare professionals to use evidence in stroke rehabilitation may make little or no difference to patient adherence to recommended treatment and patient psychological well‐being compared to no intervention (low‐quality evidence). Additionally, we found these strategies probably lead to little or no difference in patient health‐related quality of life and activities of daily living compared with no intervention (moderate certainty evidence). 
We found no studies that reported healthcare professional intention to change their behaviour or satisfaction. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies published up to 17 October 2019.
