What are the benefits and risks of different treatments for elbow fractures in children?
Key messages 
‐ A child with a supracondylar elbow fracture (a broken bone in the upper elbow, approximately 5 cm above the elbow joint) may have a lower risk of nerve injury if two or more wires are inserted from the outside of the elbow rather than having one wire inserted from the inside of the elbow and one from the outside (crossed wires). The method used by the doctor to manually move the bones back into position may not increase or reduce the risk of nerve injury, but using a closed method may reduce the risk of an infection. 
‐ Because we did not find enough studies about other treatments for these elbow fractures, their benefits and risks are unclear.  
‐ More, well‐designed studies are needed to give better estimates of the benefits and harms of other treatments. These studies should focus on outcomes related to elbow movement, as well as quality of life and how upset the child is. 
What are supracondylar elbow fractures? 
This type of broken bone is in the upper arm bone, approximately 5 cm above the elbow joint. It is the most common broken bone in the elbow during childhood, and can affect a child's day‐to‐day function as well as their ability to play and do sport. 
How are these broken bones treated? 
Treatment varies according to whether the bone has moved out of position. If it has moved, the doctor may manually move it back into a normal position. Doctors do this using a 'closed reduction' (without opening up the skin) or 'open reduction' (after the skin has been opened up).  
During surgery, metal wires are used to hold the bone in place whilst it heals. Doctors may use different types and numbers of wires, which are inserted from different angles.  
If the bone has not moved, surgery may not be necessary. In which case, treatments to hold the bone in place whilst it heals include using a plaster cast, a sling, or using traction (with weights, ropes and pulleys). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out: 
‐ which types of treatments work best to heal the bone effectively; and
‐ whether these treatments are associated with any unwanted effects.
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared a range of treatments. The most common treatments were: 
‐ surgical treatments using different types of metal wires after the bone has been put back into position; 
‐ open reduction or closed reduction;
‐ surgery or non‐surgical treatments; and
‐ different non‐surgical treatments.
We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 52 studies with 3594 children. Most children were about 5 to 8 years of age and most were boys. The studies were conducted in countries around the world; 33 studies were conducted in countries in South‐East Asia. Very few studies reported how they were funded. 
