Leukotriene inhibitors for bronchiolitis in infants and young children
Review question  We reviewed the evidence regarding the effect of leukotriene inhibitors on clinical outcomes in infants and young children with bronchiolitis. 
Background  One of the most common respiratory illnesses experienced by infants is bronchiolitis, an inflammation of the small airways in the lungs. Bronchiolitis can be caused by viruses such as the respiratory syncytial virus or influenza. Symptoms include rhinitis, wheezing, coughing and sneezing. It is associated with considerable morbidity and can result in hospitalisation. Leukotriene inhibitors are supposed to reduce airway inflammation, which means that they could help to reduce airway inflammation associated with bronchiolitis. We reviewed the evidence from randomised trials to see whether using leukotriene inhibitors is better than placebo in children under two years of age with bronchiolitis. 
Study characteristics  This evidence is current to May 2014. We identified five randomised controlled trials (1296 participants under two years of age) comparing montelukast (a leukotriene inhibitor) with placebo in infants and young children hospitalised with bronchiolitis. 
Key results  Our primary outcomes were length of hospital stay and all‐cause mortality. Secondary outcomes included clinical severity score, percentage of symptom‐free days, percentage of children requiring ventilation, recurrent wheezing, oxygen saturation, respiratory rate and clinical adverse effects. 
The effects of montelukast on length of hospital stay and clinical severity score were uncertain due to considerable heterogeneity (differences) between the study results and wide confidence intervals around the estimated effects. Data on symptom‐free days and incidence of recurrent wheezing were from single studies only and individual analyses of these studies did not show significant differences between the intervention group and the control group. One study of 952 children reported two deaths in the leukotriene inhibitors group: neither was determined to be drug‐related. No data were available on the percentage of children requiring ventilation, oxygen saturation and respiratory rate. Finally, three studies reported adverse events including diarrhoea, wheezing shortly after administration and rash. No differences were reported between the study groups. 
