Assessment of different treatments for altering blood pressure in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage 
BackgroundEvery year subarachnoid haemorrhage, a type of stroke caused by bleeding into the space surrounding the brain, affects up to nine people per 100,000 population. Mortality (death) of subarachnoid haemorrhage is 30% to 45%, and 20% of survivors are left dependent in activities of daily living. Currently, short‐term treatment may involve changing blood pressure and either inducing hypertension (that is, increasing blood pressure), or lowering blood pressure; however, the beneficial and harmful effects of blood pressure alteration in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage are unclear. 
Review questionOur aim was to assess the beneficial and harmful effects of altering blood pressure in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. 
Search dateWe searched scientific databases from their inception to September 2020. 
Study characteristicsWe identified three randomised clinical trials (studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) assessing blood pressure alterations in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. Two randomised clinical trials enrolling 61 participants compared induced hypertension with placebo (a pretend treatment) or no treatment. One randomised clinical trial enrolling 224 participants compared lowered blood pressure with placebo. We used trial sequential analysis to estimate the number of participants (amount of information) needed to reject or detect important treatment effects. Trial sequential analysis showed that there was a lack of information for all outcomes. All trials were at high risk of bias and we were very unsure about the results. 
Key results and conclusionOur review shows that there is a lack of information about the important treatment effects of induced hypertension or lowered blood pressure in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage. Therefore, the beneficial and harmful effects could not be thoroughly assessed. There is an urgent need for randomised trials assessing the effects of altering blood pressure in people with acute subarachnoid haemorrhage, reporting on patient‐important outcomes such as mortality, serious side effects, rebleeding, delayed cerebral ischaemia (reduced blood flow to the brain), quality of life, and hydrocephalus. 
