Blood transfusions for people with sickle cell disease before they undergo surgery
Review question 
We wanted to determine if blood transfusions given to people with sickle cell disease before routine or emergency surgery prevent complications due to sickle cell disease or surgery without causing any severe side effects. We also wanted to determine if any particular type of transfusion regimen is better in people with sickle cell disease undergoing surgery. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Sickle cell disease is a serious inherited blood disorder where the red blood cells, which carry oxygen around the body, develop abnormally. The disorder mainly affects people of African, Caribbean, Middle Eastern, Eastern Mediterranean and Asian origin. 
Normal red blood cells are flexible and disc‐shaped, but in sickle cell disease they can become rigid and crescent shaped. Sickled cells are not only less flexible than healthy red blood cells, they are also stickier. This can lead to blockage of blood vessels, resulting in tissue and organ damage and episodes of severe pain. The abnormal blood cells are more fragile and break apart, which leads to a shortage of red blood cells, known as anaemia. 
People with sickle cell disease are more likely to require surgery than the general population because of complications due to sickle cell disease, such as gallstones, infections, and joint problems. However, surgery can lead to sickle cell‐related complications. 
Blood transfusions before an operation may help prevent complications by reducing the level of anaemia, diluting the sickled red blood cells, and increasing the level of oxygen in the blood.This may reduce the risk of blood vessels becoming blocked causing further damage. 
There are different types of blood transfusions. The main aim of an aggressive transfusion regimen is to reduce the number of sickled cells in the blood to below a certain level (usually sickled cells are removed and donor red cells given (exchange transfusion)), it also reduces the level of anaemia. The main aim of a conservative transfusion regimen is to reduce the level of anaemia, it also reduces the percentage of sickled cells in the blood (dilution effect) but no sickled cells are removed. An aggressive transfusion regimen decreases the percentage of sickled cells in the blood to a much lower level than a conservative transfusion regimen. 
Blood transfusions can be linked to adverse events such as: the development of antibodies to proteins on donor red cells (alloimmunisation); accumulation of too much iron in the body from repeated transfusions; increased infection rates after surgery; and extended length of stay in hospital. Some types of surgery may not require blood transfusion. 
