Use of psychological interventions in women diagnosed and under treatment for non‐metastatic breast cancer 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effect of psychological interventions on the psychological impact, quality of life and survival among women with non‐metastatic breast cancer (that is cancer that has not spread beyond the breast). 
Background 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer affecting women worldwide. Being a distressing diagnosis, considerable research has examined the psychological consequences of being diagnosed and treated for breast cancer. Breast cancer diagnosis and treatment can cause depression and anxiety and reduce quality of life. As a result, various psychological interventions have been utilised to help address the psychological distress experienced after a diagnosis of breast cancer. 
Study characteristics The evidence was current to May 2013. An intervention could be delivered in a group setting (group intervention), as one to one contact between a therapist and a patient (individual intervention) or in the form of couple therapy where the patient and her spouse attends the therapy sessions (couple intervention). The control group could receive educational leaflets or have access to seminars or relaxation classes. A comprehensive search of the literature was conducted and 28 studies comprising 3940 participants were included. The majority (24 out of 28 studies) of interventions were based on cognitive behavioural therapy, which involves changing a person's thoughts and behaviour. Four studies used psychotherapy as the intervention. Generally, the methods for assessing outcomes (such as anxiety, depression, quality of life) after the intervention and the timing of these assessments were not uniform across studies. 
Key results 
Women who received cognitive behavioural therapy showed important reductions in anxiety, depression and mood disturbance, especially when it was delivered to groups of women. An improvement in quality of life was observed when women received individual cognitive behavioural therapy compared to the control group. The effects on survival were uncertain because the results were imprecise. 
The four psychotherapy studies reported limited information for each outcome. Therefore no firm conclusion could be made about the efficacy of psychotherapy. 
