Sucrose for analgesia (pain relief) in newborn infants undergoing painful procedures
Review question 
Cochrane reviewers investigated how well sucrose (table sugar) works as a reliever of pain in newborn babies who are having painful procedures (e.g. an injection, or heel lance, or insertion of a needle to obtain a blood sample (venipuncture), or eye examinations). The babies' pain responses (e.g. crying, grimacing) were assessed by scoring systems for pain used by health care professionals to measure the pain that babies are experiencing. In addition, the reviewers wanted to investigate whether the level of pain relief is related to the dose of sucrose, or the method of delivery (e.g. as a solution squirted into the mouth, or on a pacifier (also called a soother or dummy), and whether there are any safety concerns about using sucrose to relieve pain. 
Background 
Although there are ways to manage the pain of surgery, medical illness and major procedures, ways of preventing or reducing pain from minor medical procedures (e.g. heel lance and venipuncture) have, until relatively recently, been lacking. Sucrose has been examined for its calming effects in crying newborns and its pain‐relieving effects for invasive procedures in full‐term and premature newborns. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature widely up to February 2016 for studies that investigated the pain‐relieving effect of sucrose for minor medical procedures in newborn full‐term and premature babies. We included randomised controlled trials only, as these provide the most reliable medical evidence. We identified 74 studies that reported on a total of more than 7000 infants in this Cochrane Review. 
Thirty‐eight studies included full‐term babies only, 31 included premature babies only, and five included both full‐term and premature babies. Heel lance was the painful procedure in 38 studies, and venipuncture in nine; the remaining studies investigated a wide variety of other minor painful procedures. 
The studies used a variety of delivery methods for the sucrose solution (oral syringe, dropper or sucrose‐dipped pacifier), as well as a range of concentrations and volumes of dose. Sucrose treatment was compared with giving the babies a similar volume of water, a pacifier, routine care, breastfeeding, 'facilitated tucking' (holding the infant in a flexed position with arms close to the body and hands placed to promote sucking), laser acupuncture, swaddling, warmth, anaesthetic cream for the skin (EMLA), or a combination of these. The studies used a range of pain assessment scales to measure their results. 
Study funding sources 
We did not identify any studies that received funding from the industry.
Key results 
There was high‐quality evidence that sucrose reduces different measures of newborn pain during heel lance, venipuncture and intramuscular injection. However, sucrose does not provide effective pain relief during circumcision. There is conflicting evidence for whether sucrose reduces pain for other minor painful procedures and further research is needed to investigate these more thoroughly. 
Twenty‐nine studies reported on adverse events (harms of the sucrose and other treatments) and found that the number of minor adverse events (e.g. choking or gagging) was very low, and was similar in the different groups (so not attributable to the sucrose treatment). No major adverse events were reported. 
Quality of evidence 
Although sucrose has been widely studied as a pain reliever for newborn babies, most studies have included few babies and have used many different measures of pain to assess its effectiveness. We identified high‐quality evidence that sucrose reduces pain for heel lance, venipuncture and intramuscular injection. The quality of evidence was low or moderate in favour for the use of sucrose for other painful procedures. 
