Capsule endoscopy for the diagnosis of oesophageal varices in people with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis 
Background 
In cases of hepatic cirrhosis, whatever the cause, the changes in the structure of, and blood flow within, the liver increase the pressure in the portal vein (called portal vein hypertension), which is the vein that drains blood from the bowels to the liver. Portal hypertension induces dilation (opening) of veins within the wall of the oesophagus (food pipe or gullet), which often rupture (break) with severe bleeding. Thus, when liver cirrhosis is diagnosed, an oesophago‐gastro‐duodenoscopy (OGD) is recommended to detect the presence of oesophageal varices (areas of abnormal dilation of veins). During OGD, a small camera on the end of a tube is inserted down the oesophagus from the mouth. This relays pictures back to a screen. The presence of large varices or of red‐coloured signs on even small varices identifies high risk of rupture and bleeding. If high‐risk varices are found, treatment with beta‐blockers is effective in reducing the risk of bleeding. Capsule endoscopy is a less invasive test than OGD as participants have only to swallow a small device that is able to produce images of the oesophageal walls and could be able to detect the presence of dilated veins. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for clinical studies comparing OGD to capsule endoscopy and reporting the size and appearance of varices in children or adults with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (narrowing of the portal vein). The evidence is current to October 2013. 
Key results 
We found 16 studies assessing the ability of capsule endoscopy to diagnose the presence of varices and grade the risk of bleeding and comparing it with OGD in adults with cirrhosis. Capsule endoscopy, even if more acceptable to participants, cannot replace OGD for the detection of oesophageal varices as about 15% are left undetected and 15% are not confirmed by endoscopy. Even the accuracy in detecting large varices or red marks on varices was very lower than endoscopy. Hence, in conclusion, capsule endoscopy is not sufficiently accurate to replace OGD for the detection of oesophageal varices in cirrhotic participants. 
Quality of the evidence 
In nine of the sixteen studies there were problems concerning participant selection and incompleteness of reported data which impair accuracy estimates and the transferability of the results. 
