Ab interno trabecular bypass surgery with Schlemm's canal Hydrus microstent for open angle glaucoma 
What was the aim of the review? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if ab interno trabecular bypass surgery with the Hydrus microstent lowers the pressure in the eye (intraocular pressure) for people with open angle glaucoma (OAG). The Cochrane Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question, and found three completed studies. 
Key messages In people with cataracts and glaucoma, having combined treatment of cataract surgery and a Hydrus implant may increase the number of people who do not need intraocular pressure (IOP) lowering medication (drugs), and may further reduce IOP compared with cataract surgery alone in the short‐ and medium‐term. Where the Hydrus microstent was compared to iStent, the microstent was probably more effective in people with OAG. This evidence was from studies on people in whom IOP was often well‐controlled with medication, and their OAG was mainly mild or moderate. 
What was studied in the review? Glaucoma is a common eye condition and can cause blindness if left untreated. In glaucoma, the optic nerve (which connects the eye to the brain) is damaged, often due to increased pressure in the eye as a result of build‐up of fluid. Ab interno trabecular bypass surgery with a Hydrus microstent is a type of surgery in which doctors implant the Hydrus (a small device that opens up a channel in the main fluid canal called Schlemm's) and improves the flow of fluid through this canal. This may lead to lower eye pressure and a lower chance of damage to the optic nerve. This type of surgery is less invasive, and may lead to fewer complications and faster healing times than other types of surgery for glaucoma. 
What were the main results of the review? Two studies (653 participants with cataracts and open angle glaucoma) found that the proportion of people not using IOP lowering medication at two years was about half for those who received cataract surgery alone, and was more than three‐quarters if the Hydrus microstent was also implanted during cataract surgery; this evidence was of moderate‐certainty because of problems with study quality. About one in 30 or 50 participants needed further glaucoma surgery after cataract surgery alone, compared with one in 100 or less when the Hydrus microstent was added; this evidence was of low‐certainty, because of problems with study quality and the small number of glaucoma surgeries. 
Another study (152 participants with open angle glaucoma) compared a Hydrus implant with an iStent implant (a small tube implanted into the eye's drainage system, known as the trabecular meshwork, allowing fluid to flow in the Schlemm's canal) at one year. The study found that the Hydrus microstent nearly doubled the number of people not using IOP lowering medication at one year, from about a quarter to almost a half; this evidence was of low‐certainty, because of problems with study quality and the small number of participants. Further glaucoma surgery was very rarely needed in either group. 
All included studies were sponsored by the Hydrus manufacturer Ivantis Inc.
The use of the Hydrus implant was probably safe in these studies, but larger studies and a longer follow‐up may be needed to investigate very rare or long‐term adverse events. This evidence was from studies on people in whom IOP was often well‐controlled with medication, and further trials are needed for participants with uncontrolled glaucoma. 
