Drugs for motor complications in people with Parkinson´s disease who are already taking levodopa 
One of the complications of long‐term treatment of Parkinson's disease (PD) with levodopa is the development of motor complications e.g. dyskinesia; a jerky, dance‐like movement of the body. Generally clinicians add on drugs (to the levodopa regimen) from one of the other three classes of anti‐Parkinsonian treatments available (e.g. dopamine agonists, catechol‐O‐methyl transferase inhibitors (COMTIs) or monoamine oxidase type B inhibitors (MAOBIs)). However, despite trials having shown that these drugs are beneficial compared to placebo, it remains unclear as to the best way to treat patients experiencing motor complications and, in particular, whether one class of drug may be more effective than another. 
This review assesses data from randomised trials of the three classes of drugs commonly used as add‐on (adjuvant) treatment to levodopa therapy in people with PD who have motor complications. Forty‐four randomised trials, involving 8436 participants were identified as suitable for this review. The review confirms reports from individual trials that, compared to placebo, add‐on therapy (on a background of levodopa) significantly reduces patient off‐time, reduces the required levodopa dose and improves overall disability scores (measured on the Unified Parkinson's Disease Rating Scale ‐ UPDRS). However, dyskinesia and other side‐effects such as constipation, hallucinations and vomiting are increased with adjuvant therapy. 
Indirect comparisons of the three drug classes (dopamine agonists, COMTIs and MAOBIs) suggest that dopamine agonists may provide more effective symptomatic control than COMTI and MAOBI therapy. COMTI and MAOBI have comparable efficacy. There was no significant evidence of differences in efficacy between individual drugs within the drug classes, other than tolcapone appearing more effective than entacapone. However these observations are based on indirect comparisons between trials, so could be due to other factors, e.g. differences in the types of people included in the trials, and so should to be interpreted with caution. 
