Anaesthesia for hand and forearm surgery via single, double or multiple injections placed close to nerves in the armpit 
Review question 
This review compared the effects of single, double and multiple (three or four) injections of local anaesthetic around the nerves in the armpit in providing regional anaesthesia for hand, wrist or forearm surgery in adults. 
Background 
A common method of regional anaesthesia for hand, wrist or forearm surgery is to inject local anaesthetic into the tissues surrounding nerves in the armpit. This is because in the armpit (axilla) the key nerves for the lower part of the arm are close together and are easier to locate. This type of anaesthesia is called axillary brachial plexus block. The nerves themselves are located with the needle using various methods including neurostimulation (where an electrical current is passed through the needle to stimulate the nerve and produce muscle movement), the fascial click approach (puncture of the sheath around the nerves), or the transarterial approach (puncture of the artery next to the nerves). Successful blocking of the nerves produces a numb and limp arm that enables pain‐free surgery. These nerves may be blocked using single, double or multiple (three or four) injections of local anaesthetic, but it is not clear which technique is preferable. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up until April 2016 and identified 22 randomized controlled trials for inclusion in the review. These trials involved a total of 2193 participants who were given regional anaesthesia for hand, wrist, forearm or elbow surgery. The trials used methods that were generally adequate and did not affect the validity of the findings. 
Key results 
Nine trials compared double versus single injections. These found that people in the double‐injection group had a 45% reduction in their chance of needing additional anaesthesia. The effect was more certain in the four trials where the nerves were located using the more precise method of neurostimulation. In the nine trials comparing multiple with single injections, and the 12 trials comparing multiple with double injections, there were significant reductions in the chance of needing additional anaesthesia in the multiple‐injection groups (75% and 73% reductions when compared to single and double injections respectively). In addition, people in the multiple‐injection group were 47% less likely to experience pain from the surgical tourniquet compared to the double‐injection group. There were no other statistically significant differences in complications or patient discomfort between the two groups for any of the three comparisons. Single and double injections took less time to perform than multiple injections, but this did not reduce the total time required for adequate surgical anaesthesia to be established. 
Overall, there is high‐quality evidence showing that multiple injections of anaesthetic close to three or four nerves in the armpit provide more complete anaesthesia for hand and forearm surgery than one or two injections. There was, however, not enough evidence to determine if there was a significant difference in the other outcomes, including safety. 
