Melatonin for preoperative and postoperative anxiety in adults
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence from randomized controlled trials about the effects of melatonin on preoperative and postoperative anxiety in adults undergoing surgery when compared with placebo or benzodiazepine sedative drugs. 
Background 
People often feel uneasy and apprehensive both before and after surgery. Anxiety occurs in up to 80% of individuals undergoing surgery. They may be concerned about their illness, the need for hospitalization and being incapacitated, anaesthesia, surgery, pain, and the situation. 
Factors that can influence risk of anxiety include age (younger age), being female, surgery type, type of anaesthesia, and cultural and religious differences. Being anxious can lead to increased pain and the need for additional pain management. 
Interventions to reduce the level of anxiety include anxiolytic‐sedative drugs such as benzodiazepines, information and effective communication around the time of surgery, cognitive‐behavioural therapy, music, and massage therapy. 
Benzodiazepines can cause cognitive problems such as trouble remembering and concentrating and daytime sleepiness, and they can interfere with coordination and physical movement, even after single doses. 
Melatonin is a hormone produced in the pineal gland in the brain that regulates circadian rhythms. These are the body and behavioural changes that follow a daily cycle and help to determine sleep patterns. Studies have shown that melatonin can reduce anxiety. It causes few or no cognitive problems and has no known serious side effects. This means it could be a worthy alternative to medical treatment. 
Search date 
Evidence for this review update is current to July 2020.
Study characteristics 
We found 27 randomized studies involving 2319 adult participants that looked at the effects of melatonin given before surgery on the level of anxiety both before and after surgery. Most studies were conducted in developing countries. We included any kind of surgical procedure in which general, regional, or topical anaesthesia was used. 
Melatonin doses varied from 3 to 10 mg or from 0.05 to 0.4 mg/kg. Benzodiazepine (midazolam, oxazepam, or alprazolam) doses ranged from 0.25 to 15 mg or from 0.05 to 0.2 mg/kg. 
None of the studies reported receipt of funding from drug manufacturers or agencies with commercial interests. 
Key results 
Twenty‐four studies compared melatonin with placebo, and 11 studies compared melatonin with benzodiazepine drugs. Gabapentin, pregabalin, and clonidine were also compared with melatonin in some studies. 
Melatonin reduced anxiety before surgery when compared to placebo (18 studies, 1264 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). 
The reduction in anxiety after surgery was small compared with that seen with placebo (7 studies, 524 participants; low‐certainty evidence), including at six hours after surgery (2 studies, 73 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
Melatonin may have similar effects to benzodiazepines on the level of anxiety before surgery (7 studies, 409 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence) and immediately after surgery (3 studies, 176 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
