Replacing the defective gene is a potential treatment for progressive lung disease in people with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of delivering the correct copy of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) gene directly to the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis in order to treat progressive lung disease. 
Background 
In cystic fibrosis the gene encoding a protein called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) is faulty. People with cystic fibrosis suffer from progressive lung infection and damage which reduces life expectancy. Agents which can deliver a correct copy of the faulty CFTR gene to cells in the lungs may be an effective treatment. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 20 April 2016.
Study characteristics 
We found four studies with 302 people to include in this review. The studies lasted from 29 days to 13 months. Three of these studies included both men and women aged 12 years and over and one study only included adult men. The studies compare gene therapy to a dummy treatment (placebo) both of which are inhaled as a mist into the lungs. The studies were of different designs and used different agents. This meant we could not combine their results. 
Key results 
Three of the studies, including the largest and most recent study, showed an improvement in some measures of lung function in people with CF given gene therapy. We did not find that any more clinically relevant outcomes such as quality of life, treatment burden or flare‐up of lung disease had improved with treatment. In one study "influenza‐like" symptoms were more common in people who received CFTR gene transfer agents but this was not reported when the agent was used repeatedly in a larger study. In those people who took the gene transfer agents, molecules and salt in their lower airways moved more like they do in healthy people. 
The limited evidence of benefit does not support this as a routine therapy at present. We recommend that future studies are designed and reported clearly so that their results can be incorporated into a systematic review. 
Quality of the evidence 
The most recent study provided detailed information on how the people were put into different treatment groups completely at random, and so we are satisfied that those taking part in the study had an equal chance of being in either group (CFTR gene transfer agent or placebo) and that no one could work out which group the next person would be put into. The other studies reported that people were put into groups at random but did not specify how, so we cannot be sure that there was an equal chance of them being in either group. We believe that the clinicians running all the studies did not know which treatment the people taking part were receiving and that in three of the studies those taking part did not know either, but we could not be sure whether the people taking part in the latest study knew which treatment they were receiving and what effect this knowledge might have on results. Unfortunately, the studies did not report all their results clearly; sometimes results were not reported in a way that we could use for the review and sometimes they were not reported at all. This reduced the certainty with which we judged the overall results. 
