Interventions for preventing and treating incontinence‐associated dermatitis in adults
Background 
Incontinence‐associated dermatitis (IAD) is an inflammation of the skin due to contact with urine or stool. IAD occurs in people with involuntary loss of urine or stool (incontinence). The main symptom of IAD is skin redness. In addition, bullae, skin lesions, and skin infection may occur. IAD affects one to five in ten incontinent adults and is a risk factor for pressure‐related skin problems. To prevent and treat IAD, skin cleansing and skin care products are recommended. Many skin care products and procedures are available. The skin care products can be divided into cleansers, moisturisers, and protectants which may be combined (for example, a cleanser/moisturiser). In practice, products and procedures are the same for both prevention and treatment. 
Review question 
This review clarified the effect of various skin care products and procedures to prevent and treat IAD. 
Study characteristics 
We included randomised controlled trials which compared skin care products, procedures, methods for using skin care products and frequencies of using a skin care product. The participants had to be over 18 years of age. 
Key results 
We found thirteen, mostly small, trials, involving 1316 participants. All participants were incontinent for urine, stool, or both and lived in nursing homes or were hospitalised. The trials tested skin care products, procedures, and frequencies of using a skin care product. 
Two trials showed that soap and water performed poorly in the prevention and treatment of IAD. A skin cleanser or a washcloth with cleansing, moisturising and protecting properties may be more effective than soap and water. The findings from the other trials suggest that using a skin care product is more effective than withholding a skin care product. We found no evidence that one skin care product performed better than another. The trials did not report on adverse effects. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of the evidence was low. Eleven trials had small numbers of participants and were of short duration. The overall risk of bias was high. 
