PARP inhibitors for locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer
What is the aim of this review? 
PARP inhibitors are a new class of drug that block DNA repair in tumour cells and hence lead to cell death. The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out their efficacy and safety in the treatment of patients with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer. The Cochrane review authors collected and analysed all relevant trials to answer this question and found five trials addressing this topic. Our primary aim was to look at whether PARP inhibitors prolonged survival. We also evaluated whether these drugs prolonged the time before disease progression (usually defined as growth of more than 20% or development of a new metastasis), caused the tumour to shrink, or resulted in more side effects. 
What was studied in the review? 
We included randomised controlled trials of participants with locally advanced or metastatic breast cancer comparing 1) chemotherapy in combination with PARP inhibitors, compared to the same chemotherapy without PARP inhibitors or 2) treatment with PARP inhibitors, compared to treatment with other chemotherapy. We included trials that reported on our primary outcome of overall survival and secondary outcomes including progression‐free survival, tumour shrinkage rate, quality of life, and side effects. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for published trials up to June 2020 and included the results of five trials involving 1474 participants. 
What are the main results of the review? 
For people with locally advanced or metastatic HER2‐negative (people with breast cancer that tests negative for a protein called human epidermal growth factor receptor 2), BRCA germline mutated (participant carries a mutation in the BRCA gene) breast cancer, our systematic review found that PARP inhibitors: 
‐ may reduce the risk of death by 13% (i.e. people treated with these drugs live longer overall compared to those treated in the comparator treatment arm);‐ reduce the risk of disease growth by 37%; ‐ may improve the chance of tumour shrinkage (66.9% for PARP inhibitors versus 48.9% for other treatments):‐ result in little to no difference in side effects compared to other treatment arms. 
Quality of life data were collected in two trials and the evidence available showed PARP inhibitors were superior compared to physician’s choice of chemotherapy in terms of participant‐reported outcomes. 
