Preparing a patient with bowel cancer for surgery with multiple interventions
Aim of this review 
The aim of this review is to find out whether multiple interventions introduced in the period prior to surgery for bowel cancer could prepare a patient by increasing the patient's overall fitness, and thus improve outcomes after surgery. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all available randomised controlled trials on this topic. 
Key messages 
Only three studies met the inclusion criteria for this review, information was not available for all outcomes and the overall certainty of evidence was very low to moderate. More and larger studies are needed to gather evidence on this topic. 
What was studied in the review? 
Surgery is often given to cure patients diagnosed with early stage bowel cancer. Surgery has a negative impact on the overall fitness of the patient. The energy level decreases, patients are more dependent in their daily living activities, and quality of life decreases. Furthermore, complications may occur after surgery causing a further decrease of fitness. Preoperative interventions, such as exercise programmes, nutritional advice and supplements, as well as mental support, may increase the fitness of the patient, prior to surgery. This concept is called prehabilitation. The impact of surgery is diminished and consequently results in faster and better recovery. Combining such preoperative interventions results in better preparation for surgery because each interventions may help to strengthen the effects of the others. The review authors aimed to study the effect of such multiple‐intervention preparation programmes before surgery for patients with bowel cancer. The review authors focused on these outcomes: physical fitness, number of complications after surgery, death rate, quality of life (assessed with questionnaires), length of stay in the hospital, number of emergency department visits, number of re‐admissions after surgery, safety of the programme and adherence to the programme. They compared groups with prehabilitation programmes to groups not receiving any preparation prior to surgery, other than standard care. 
Main results of this review 
The review authors found three studies with 250 participants with bowel cancer, without metastases, scheduled for surgery. Studies were conducted in Canada. A total of 130 participants followed four‐week prehabilitation programmes prior to surgery, which included exercises, nutritional advice and supplements, as well as techniques to reduce anxiety about their cancer and its treatment. Another 120 participants followed identical programmes, but only started them after the surgery, when they were discharged from hospital. 
Overall, the review authors did not find an improvement in either group of participants. The certainty of evidence was very low to moderate, mainly because of the small numbers of studies and participants included in the review. Physical fitness potentially improves and the number of complications and emergency department visits may diminish in patients receiving prehabilitation programmes prior to surgery. On the other hand, more re‐admissions to the hospital occurred after prehabilitation programmes. Because data on death rates, quality of life, length of stay in the hospital, safety of the programme and adherence to the programme was not complete or not reported, the review authors did not analyse these outcomes. Due to the mostly low or very low certainty of the evidence, the findings of this review should be interpreted with caution. 
