Water fluoridation to prevent tooth decay
Background 
Tooth decay is a worldwide problem affecting most adults and children. Untreated decay may cause pain and lead to teeth having to be removed. In many parts of the world, tooth decay is decreasing. Children from poorer backgrounds still tend to have greater levels of decay. Fluoride is a mineral that prevents tooth decay. It occurs naturally in water at varying levels. Fluoride can also be added to the water with the aim of preventing tooth decay. Fluoride is present in most toothpastes and available in mouthrinses, varnishes and gels. If young children swallow too much fluoride while their permanent teeth are forming, there is a risk of marks developing on those teeth. This is called ‘dental fluorosis’. Most fluorosis is very mild, with faint white lines or streaks visible only to dentists under good lighting in the clinic. More noticeable fluorosis, which is less common, may cause people concern about how their teeth look. 
Review question 
We carried out this review to evaluate the effects of fluoride in water (added fluoride or naturally occurring) on the prevention of tooth decay and markings on teeth (dental fluorosis). 
Study characteristics 
We reviewed 20 studies on the effects of fluoridated water on tooth decay and 135 studies on dental fluorosis. The evidence is up to date at 19 February 2015. 
Nineteen studies assessed the effects of starting a water fluoridation scheme. They compared tooth decay in two communities around the time fluoridation started in one of them. After several years, a second survey was done to see what difference it made. Around 70% of these studies were conducted before 1975. Other, more recent studies comparing fluoridated and non‐fluoridated communities have been conducted. We excluded them from our review because they did not carry out initial surveys of tooth decay levels around the time fluoridation started so were unable to evaluate changes in those levels since then. We reviewed one study that compared tooth decay in two fluoridated areas before fluoridation was stopped in one area. Again, after several years, a second survey was done to see what difference it made. 
Around 73% of dental fluorosis studies were conducted in places with naturally occurring – not added – fluoride in their water. Some had levels of up to 5 parts per million (ppm). 
