Effects of spinals and epidurals on perioperative death, myocardial infarction and pneumonia: an overview of Cochrane systematic reviews 
Epidurals and spinals are anaesthetic techniques that block the transmission of painful stimuli from a surgical site to the brain at the level of the spinal cord. They allow the surgeon to perform surgery on the lower part of the abdomen (below the umbilicus) or on the lower limbs with no painful sensation while the person remains conscious. In this Cochrane overview, we summarized relevant randomized controlled trials from nine Cochrane systematic reviews, in which epidurals or spinals were compared as a method of replacing general anaesthesia or were added to general anaesthesia to reduce the quantity of narcotics or muscle relaxants required during general anaesthesia. The types of surgery included were caesarean section, abdominal surgery, repair of hip fracture, replacement of hip and knee joints and surgery to improve circulation in the legs. 
When epidurals or spinals were used to replace general anaesthesia, the risk of dying during the surgery or within the following 30 days was reduced by approximately 29% (from 20 studies with 3006 participants). Also, the risk of developing pneumonia (chest infection) was reduced by 55% (from five studies with 400 participants). However, the risk of developing a myocardial infarction (heart attack) was the same for both anaesthetic techniques (from six studies with 849 participants). 
When epidurals (and less frequently spinals) were used to reduce the quantity of other drugs required while general anaesthesia was used, the risk of dying during the surgery or within 30 days was the same for both anaesthetic techniques (from 18 studies with 3228 participants). Also, a difference was not detected for the risk of developing myocardial infarction (from eight studies with 1580 participants). The risk of developing pneumonia was reduced by approximately 30% when a correction was made for possible missing studies (from nine studies with 2433 participants). 
No serious side effects (seizures, cardiac arrest, nerve damage lasting longer than one month or infection) were reported from the use of epidurals or spinals in these studies. 
The quality of the evidence for all six comparisons was rated as moderate because of some imperfections in how the studies were carried out. Therefore further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in these results and may even change the results. 
