Haemodiafiltration, haemofiltration and haemodialysis for end‐stage kidney disease
People who have severe loss of kidney function are treated with dialysis or a kidney transplant to remove toxins and fluid. Dialysis removes waste products and fluid by filtering these across a membrane in the dialysis machine (for haemodialysis) or within the body (for peritoneal dialysis). Toxins that build‐up in the body when the kidneys fail vary in size and larger molecules are removed less well by standard haemodialysis. Newer dialysis types 'push' water across the dialysis membrane which allows the removal of unwanted molecules more efficiently. Larger molecules are removed better and the dialysis fluid has fewer impurities, leading to the potential for convective dialysis to improve the ways patients feel and survive on dialysis. The three types of convective dialysis therapy are haemodiafiltration, haemofiltration, and acetate‐free biofiltration. Use of convective therapy for dialysis is higher in Europe and lower in the USA. Given the difference between regions for uptake of this treatment and the potential benefits on patient outcomes, we have updated this Cochrane review to new additional studies available in 2015. 
We identified 40 studies enrolling 4137 adult participants. Of these, 35 studies in 4039 adults compared convective dialysis with standard haemodialysis. Overall the evidence in the studies was low or very low quality due to limitations in the methods used in the research leading to low confidence in the results. Overall, there was no evidence convective dialysis lowered risk of death from any cause but may reduce death due to heart or vascular disease. Overall treating 1000 men and women who have end‐stage kidney disease with convective dialysis rather than standard haemodialysis may prevent 25 dying from heart disease. Convective therapy may reduce blood pressure falls during dialysis but there was no evidence that convective dialysis influenced chances of hospital admission or other side‐effects, or improved quality of life. 
