Regimens of vitamin D supplementation for women during pregnancy
What is the issue? 
This review evaluated if there are beneficial effects of supplementing pregnant women with more than the current vitamin D recommendation (200 international units/day (IU/d) to 600 IU/d) on pregnancy and neonatal health outcomes and to evaluate if there are negative health effects when using more than the current upper limit recommendation (4000 IU/d). 
Why is this important? 
Vitamin D supplementation in pregnancy compared to no supplementation appears to decrease the risk of pre‐eclampsia, gestational diabetes, low birthweight and may reduce the risk of severe postpartum haemorrhage. However, it is not clear if doses greater than the currently recommended level are needed to observe these health benefits, and if giving more than the upper limit is related to adverse events. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review included trials evaluating the effect of different vitamin D regimens (doses, frequencies, duration, and times of commencement) to compare the effects of 601 IU/d or more versus 600 IU/d or less and 4000 IU/d or more versus 3999 IU/d or less, of vitamin D alone or with any other nutrient on pregnancy and neonatal health outcomes. 
What evidence did we find? 
Evidence from 19 trials involving 5214 women suggest that supplementation with 601 IU/d or more of vitamin D during pregnancy may reduce the risk of gestational diabetes but may make little or no difference to the risk of pre‐eclampsia, preterm birth or low birthweight compared to women receiving 600 IU/d or less. 
Evidence from 15 trials involving 4763 women suggests that supplementation with 4000 IU/d or more of vitamin D during pregnancy may make little or no difference to the risk of pre‐eclampsia, gestational diabetes, preterm birth or low birthweight compared to women receiving 3999 IU/d or less. 
Adverse events were reported differently in most trials; in general, there was little to no side effects reported or similar cases between groups. 
What does this mean? 
Supplementing pregnant women with more than the current vitamin D recommendation may reduce the risk of gestational diabetes; however, it may make little or no difference in the risk of the other outcomes. Supplementing pregnant women with more than the current upper limit for vitamin D seems not to increase the risk of the outcomes evaluated. Vitamin D supplementation appears to be safe. 
