Ghrelin, a hunger hormone for management of cancer patients with loss of appetite and weight loss 
Bottom line 
There is no good evidence to support or reject the suggestion that ghrelin is useful in the management of cancer patients with loss of appetite and weight loss. There is insufficient evidence to recommend it for clinical practice. 
Background 
Sixty to eighty percent of cancer patients suffer from loss of appetite and weight loss, which in turn is associated with decreased life expectancy and quality of life. Ghrelin, a hunger hormone is secreted by the stomach and other organs of the body. Studies have shown that ghrelin can be used in treatment for loss of appetite and weight loss in cancer patients. However, the effectiveness and safety of ghrelin in such people have not been assessed. In this review we set out to examine all evidence on the effectiveness and safety of ghrelin in improving appetite and body weight in cancer patients with loss of appetite and weight loss. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 20th July 2017.
Study characteristics 
We found three studies that recruited a total of 59 cancer patients (37 men and 22 women) aged between 54 and 78 years. Forty‐seven cancer patients completed the treatment. Studies differed in study design and included people with a variety of cancers. Studies also differed in dosage, route of injection, frequency and duration of treatment. One study compared ghrelin with a placebo while two studies compared different doses of ghrelin (higher dose with lower dose). Outcomes of interest to cancer patients with loss of appetite and weight loss, such as improvement in food intake and improvement in body weight, were not adequately reported. 
All three included studies were funded by government agencies. One study received an additional grant from a pharmaceutical company. 
Key findings 
We found insufficient evidence that using ghrelin demonstrated differences in food intake. We found no evidence that using ghrelin alone or in combination made any difference to body weight. We could not reach any conclusions about its side effects. The limited amount of information means that we could not draw any conclusions. 
