Physician use of red flags to screen for fractured vertebrae for patients with new back pain 
This review describes the understanding of a common practice for checking for spinal injuries when patients come to a family practice doctor, back pain clinic or emergency room with new back pain.  Doctors usually ask a few questions and examine the back to check for the possibility of a spinal fracture.  The reason for this check for fractures is that the treatment is different for common back pain and fractures.  Fractures are usually diagnosed with an x‐ray, then treated with rest, a back brace and pain relievers.  Common back pain is treated with exercise, chiropractic manipulation, and pain relievers; x‐rays, computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging scans are not useful for diagnosis.  Fractures are rare, being the cause of back pain in the range of 1% to 4.5% of new back pain visits to family doctors. 
Eight studies including several thousand patients described 29 different questions and physical exam tests that have been used to look for spinal fractures.  Most of the 29 were not accurate.  The best four questions asked about use of steroids (which can cause weak bones), the patient’s age (age above 74 increases the risk of fractures) and recent trauma such as a fall.  Using a combination of the best questions appears to improve the accuracy.  For example, women above age 74 are more likely to have a fracture when they come to the physician complaining of back pain.  In the emergency room, the best indication of a spinal fracture was a bruise or scrape on the painful area of the back. 
Fractures are rare and generally do not require emergency treatment, even if red flags exist clinicians and patients can watch and wait.  During the waiting period, patients should avoid treatments like exercise and manipulation that are not recommended for spinal fractures. 
The worst effects of low quality red flag screening are overtreatment and undertreatment.  If the tests are not accurate, patients without a fracture may get an x‐ray or CT scan that they don’t need—unnecessary exposure to x‐rays, extra worry for the patient and extra cost.  At the other extreme (and much less common), it might be possible to miss a real fracture, and cause the patient to have extra time without the best treatment. 
