Drugs to improve blood flow for people who have poor blood circulation in the veins of their legs 
Background 
In chronic venous insufficiency, veins of the lower limbs are unable to transport blood towards the heart. It might be caused by genetic factors, may occur after trauma, or may result from a blood clot. Poor movement of blood up the legs may cause swelling and puffiness, feelings of heaviness, tingling, cramps, pain, varicose veins and changes in skin pigmentation. If severe insufficient blood circulation occurs, ulcers and skin wasting can develop. Drugs such as natural flavonoids extracted from plants and similar synthetic products may improve blood circulation. These drugs are known collectively as venoactive drugs or phlebotonics. This review examined evidence from randomised controlled clinical trials comparing these drugs versus inactive treatment (placebo), generally given over one to three months. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We identified three new studies for this update. In total, 69 studies met the eligibility criteria for this review. However, we could only use 56 studies (7690 participants; mean age 50 years) in further analysis. 
We compared the results and summarised the evidence from the studies. After doing so, we assessed how certain the evidence was. To do this, we considered factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as potentially being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
Moderate‐certainty evidence from 13 studies (involving 1245 people) suggests that phlebotonics probably slightly reduce puffiness (oedema) compared with placebo. Moderate‐certainty evidence suggests that there is little or no difference in quality of life for people taking phlebotonics when compared with placebo. Low‐certainty evidence suggests there is little or no difference in the proportion of healed ulcers with phlebotonics, compared with placebo. Moderate‐certainty evidence from 37 studies (involving 5789 people) suggests that phlebotonics probably produce more side effects, especially gastrointestinal disorders. 
Certainty of the evidence 
All evidence was of moderate or low certainty. Starting from an initial assumption of high certainty, we downgraded the certainty of evidence by one level for each outcome because of the high risk of bias, primarily due to selective outcome reporting and incomplete outcome data. For the outcome of ulcer healing, we downgraded by an additional level due to statistical imprecision (small number of events). With moderate‐certainty evidence, we are moderately confident in the effect estimates for these outcomes. The true effect is likely to be close to the estimate of the effect, but there is a possibility that it is substantially different. With low‐certainty evidence, our confidence in the effect estimate for that outcome is limited. The true effect may be substantially different from the estimate of the effect. 
How‐up‐to date is this review? 
The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to November 2019.
