Peer support for schizophrenia and other serious mental illnesses
Background 
Schizophrenia and other serious mental illnesses are chronic disruptive mental disorders with disturbing psychotic, affective and cognitive symptoms such as delusions, hallucinations, depression, anxiety, insomnia, difficulty in concentration, suspiciousness and social withdrawal. The primary treatment is antipsychotic medicine, but these are not always fully effective. 
Peer support provides the opportunity for both a service user and a provider of care to share knowledge, direct experience of their illness and to help each other along the path to recovery. The support is given alongside antipsychotic treatment. Through interpersonal sharing, modelling and assistance within or outside of group sessions, it is believed that these supportive strategies can help combat feelings of hopelessness and behavioural problems that may result from having an illness and empower people to continue their treatment and help them to resume key roles in real life. However, findings from research have been inconsistent regarding the effectiveness of peer support for people with schizophrenia and other serious mental illnesses. 
Review aims 
This review aimed to find high‐quality evidence from relevant randomised clinical trials (studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) so we could assess the effects of peer‐support interventions for people with serious mental illness in comparison to standard care or other supportive or psychosocial interventions not from peers. We were interested in finding clinically meaningful data that could provide information regarding the effect peer support has on hospital admission, relapse, global state, quality of life, death and cost to society for people with schizophrenia. 
Searches 
We searched Cochrane Schizophrenia's specialised register of trials (up to 2017) and found 13 trials that randomised 2479 people with schizophrenia or other similar serious mental illnesses to receive either peer support plus their standard care, clinician‐led support plus their standard care or standard care alone. 
Key results 
Thirteen trials were available but the evidence was very low quality. Useable data were reported for only two of our prespecified outcomes of importance and showed adding peer support to standard care appeared to have little or no clear impact on hospital admission or death for people with schizophrenia and other serious mental illnesses. One of these trials (participants = 156) also compared peer support with clinician‐led support (where a health professional provided support). However, there were no useable data for this comparison reported for the main outcomes. 
