Scalpel versus electrosurgery for surgical operations on the abdomen
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of using either a scalpel (knife) or electrosurgery in surgical operations on the abdomen. 
Background 
During abdominal surgery, surgeons need to cut through several layers of abdominal wall tissue before reaching the target operation site. To do this, surgeons can use either a sharp‐bladed scalpel or an electrosurgical device that burns through tissue using a precise high‐frequency current (known as electrosurgery). It is thought that, compared to using a scalpel, electrosurgery may result in less blood loss, more rapid tissue separation, and a lower risk of surgeons cutting themselves. We wanted to find out about the benefits and risks of these two techniques, and to compare them in terms of safety and other measures such as risk of infection and pain. 
Study characteristics 
In October 2016, we searched for randomised controlled trials (RCTs; clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) comparing scalpel‐based surgery with electrosurgery for abdominal incisions (cuts). We found seven new trials for this update, allowing us to include a total of 16 RCTs involving 2769 participants. The majority of participants were adults, although one trial included children over the age of 15 years. There were slightly more female participants than male as some trials looked exclusively at caesarean sections (an operation to deliver a baby through a cut made in the abdomen and womb) and gynaecological (female reproductive system) surgery. 
Key results 
There was no clear difference between scalpel and electrosurgery in the number of people whose wounds became infected. It is uncertain whether electrosurgery prevents wound breakdown (a complication that involves the breaking open of the surgical incision along the stitches/staples) following surgery, while the difference in blood loss and time required for incision between electrosurgery and scalpel was not clinically important. There was not enough information available to determine how electrosurgery compared with scalpel‐based surgery in relation to time required for wounds to heal, amount of pain during healing, and appearance of scars. More studies need to be conducted before conclusions can be drawn as to whether one method is better for pain after an operation and time to wound healing following abdominal surgery. 
Quality of the evidence 
We judged the certainty of evidence to be moderate to very low for all outcomes. This is because the studies were often small with a low number of events and, in many cases, were not reported in a way that meant we could be sure they had been conducted robustly. The certainty of the evidence means that we cannot make conclusive statements and better quality research is needed to form stronger conclusions. 
This plain language summary is up to date as of October 2016.
