Evidence‐based psychological interventions for preventing depression in children and adolescents 
The aim of this review was to assess the efficacy of evidence‐based psychological interventions designed to prevent the onset of a depressive disorder and to reduce any existing symptoms of depression. 
Who may be interested in this review? 
People involved in public health initiatives, school personnel and mental health clinicians.
Why is this review important? 
Depressive disorder is common. It is associated with a negative impact on the functioning of young people and is expensive to society at large. Finding a way to prevent the onset of depressive disorder has the potential to make an important impact on the burden of depression in young people. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Whether psychological depression prevention programmes designed to prevent the onset of depressive disorder in children and adolescents are effective. 
Which trials were included in the review? 
We included 83 studies (in particular randomised controlled trials) of evidence‐based psychotherapy interventions (cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) and third wave CBT, interpersonal therapy) that had the specific aim of preventing the onset of depressive disorder. For the primary outcome of depression diagnosis at medium‐term follow‐up (up to 12 months), there were 32 trials with 5965 participants and for the primary outcome of depression symptoms (self‐rated) there were 73 trials with 13,829 participants. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We found that, compared with any comparison group, psychological depression prevention programmes have small positive benefits on depression prevention. There were some problems with the way the trials were done and in particular the results showed that compared to an attention placebo comparison group (a control intervention that controls for non‐specific factors like involvement in a trial and attention from researchers), these programmes had no effect. There is still not enough evidence to support the implementation of depression prevention programmes. However, based on the effects seen for targeted depression prevention programmes (albeit with inadequate control groups), we recommend that further research be undertaken to test the effectiveness of depression prevention programmes in populations of young people who already have some symptoms of depression. Such trials should compare the intervention to an attention placebo comparison group and measure whether depressive diagnosis is prevented in the long term. They also need to consider whether the approach is something that can be implemented in the real world. In addition, they should consider and measure whether the intervention produces harmful outcomes. 
