Medicines less commonly used for preventing high altitude illness
Background 
High altitude illness (HAI) is a term used to describe a group of brain and lung conditions that can occur during travel to altitudes above 2500 metres (˜ 8200 feet). HAI‐related conditions are generally characterized by headache, nausea, vomiting and tiredness (often called acute mountain sickness), but primarily affect the brain (drowsiness, confusion or unconsciousness) or the lungs (cough, breathlessness) in different individuals. We assessed five classes of medicines less commonly used to prevent the onset of this illness in this review. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to May 2017. We included eight studies and 334 participants related to five different classes of medicines sometimes recommended for HAI prevention. These medicines included those that mimic the action of serotonin at selected sites (selective 5‐hydroxytryptamine(1) receptor agonists), medicines that regulate the action of calcium (N‐methyl‐D‐aspartate (NMDA) antagonist), medicines that promote dilation of the blood vessels (endothelin‐1 antagonist), medicines that prevent a neuron (nerve cell) from 'firing' (initiating an action) and convulsions from developing (anticonvulsant medicines), as well as medicines that regulate the body´s sodium and water levels (spironolactone). All studies were undertaken in high altitude mountain areas. The participants ranged between 16 and 65 years of age. Only one study included people at a high risk of this condition due to their history of HAI. Four trials provided the intervention between one to three days prior to the ascent (50%), and three trials less than 24 hours prior (37.5%). The participants in all these studies reached a final altitude of between 3500 and 5895 metres above sea level. Only one of the eight included studies did not provide clear information about the source of funding (12.5%). Twenty‐four additional studies were classified as ongoing (12), or awaiting classification (12; unable to obtain full texts). 
Key results 
The assessment of the less commonly used pharmacological interventions suggest that there is a scarcity of evidence related to these interventions. For most of the assessed comparisons, we only found evidence from a single study. Clinical benefits and harms related to potential interventions such as sumatriptan are still unclear. 
