Inserting a drain after gastrectomy for gastric cancer
Background 
Gastrectomy remains the primary therapeutic method for resectable gastric cancer. It is believed that abdominal drains can help in the earlier detection and drainage of anastomotic fistulas and the prevention of intra‐abdominal abscesses. There is no consensus on the routine placement of abdominal drainage after gastrectomy for gastric cancer. 
Review question 
To assess the benefits and harms of routine abdominal drainage post‐gastrectomy for gastric cancer, we included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared inserting an abdominal drain versus no drain in patients with gastric cancer who had undergone gastrectomy. The main outcomes included deaths (30‐day mortality), re‐operations, post‐operative complications, operation time, length of post‐operative hospital stay, and time of initiation of a soft diet. 
Study characteristics 
This review included four RCTs involving 438 patients that investigated the benefits and harms of routine abdominal drainage post‐gastrectomy for gastric cancer. 
Key results 
There was no evidence of a difference between the two groups in deaths, post‐operative complications, and initiation of a soft diet. The results showed that drains increased harms by prolonging operation time and post‐operative hospital stay, and led to drain‐related complications without providing any additional benefit for patients with gastric cancer undergoing gastrectomy. There was no convincing evidence to support the routine use of drains after gastrectomy for gastric cancer. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence according to the GRADE approach was 'very low' for deaths and re‐operations, and 'low' for post‐operative complications, operation time, and post‐operative length of stay. This review included only four RCTs, and not all of the included studies reported all outcomes that we were assessing. Therefore, the quality was mainly limited by insufficient data. 
