Meditation for adults with haematological malignancies
Background 
Cancers of the bone marrow, lymphatic tissue and blood are considered as haematological malignancies. The most common types of haematological malignancies are lymphoma, leukaemia and myeloma but they also include myelodysplastic syndromes or myeloproliferative diseases. Within each type of disease there are various sub‐divisions. There are several treatment options depending on the type and severity of the cancer. The most common therapies are chemotherapy, radiotherapy or a combination of both. In some cases, stem cell transplantation is offered (this is where either the patient's own bone marrow cells or cells of another person are implanted in the patient's body after aggressive chemotherapy). Those suffering from haematological cancers may have serious symptoms, and treatments often cause severe and distressing side effects. 
Living with cancer and undergoing aggressive treatment often leads to physical or psychological health problems such as tiredness, anxiety or depression. Even after having completed the treatment some patients are still affected by their disease and search for alternative treatment options to help them coping with their disease. 
Meditation 
Meditation has been practised for thousands of years by many different cultures and has it's origins in ancient eastern traditions. Meditation practice can be done in various postures and ways. For example, the person can focus on breathing in and out, on an object or repeat a word or a pair of words (a mantra). Some sorts of mediation are based on spiritual beliefs. One treatment using meditation practice is called mindfulness‐based cognitive therapy and has shown improvements on distress, quality of life and anxiety in cancer patients. However, there has not been a systematic evaluation on how meditation practice may improve and affect the lives of those with haematologically disease. 
Objectives 
We investigated the effects of meditation practice on adult patients with haematological malignancies. Important outcomes were quality of life, overall survival, depression, fatigue, anxiety, quality of sleep and adverse events. We reviewed the effects of meditation practice in addition to standard care for patients newly diagnosed with acute leukaemia compared to standard care only. 
Findings 
We included one trial with 91 adult patients, of whom only 42 were analysed. The trial involved five one‐hour meditation intervention sessions between admission and discharge of participants newly diagnosed with acute myeloid or lymphoid leukaemia. There was no information about the age of the participants included in the study. All participants in the trial were hospitalised for initial induction chemotherapy. As the abstract of the publication did not provide numbers, it is not possible to describe the results in more detail. 
Participants practising meditation reported better physical health and levels of depression could be decreased. 
Quality of the evidence 
Most of our pre‐defined outcomes (overall survival, anxiety, fatigue, quality of sleep, and adverse events) were not reported at all. We judge the quality of the evidence for the outcomes quality of life and depression as 'very low', due to high risk of bias (only 42 out 91 participants were evaluated) and very imprecise results. 
Conclusion 
There were not enough data available to determine the effectiveness of meditation practice on haematologically‐diseased patients, thus the role of meditation in the treatment of haematological malignancies remains unclear. More high‐quality and larger randomised controlled trials are needed to validate possible positive effects of meditation practice for haematologically‐diseased patients. 
The evidence is up‐to‐date as of August, 2015.
