What is the most effective and safe way to administer antibiotics to prevent infection for women undergoing caesarean section 
What is the issue? 
Caesarean delivery increases the risk for infection compared to vaginal birth by five‐ to 20‐fold. Infections can be of the surgical incision, the lining of the uterus, and inside the pelvis. Clinicians seek to prevent these infections by different measures including prophylactic (preventative) antibiotics. 
Why is this important? 
Antibiotics can be given by a number of different routes including by mouth, injection into a vein or by washing inside the uterus and the surgical site with a saline solution containing the antibiotic. We assessed the benefits and harms of different routes of prophylactic antibiotics given for preventing infections in women undergoing caesarean section. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials on 6 January 2016 and found 10 studies (involving a total of 1354 women). 
Nine studies (1274 women) compared intravenous antibiotic administration with antibiotic irrigation (washing with a saline solution containing antibiotics). The two routes gave similar results on important outcomes including infection of the uterus/womb (low‐quality evidence) and wound infection (very low‐quality evidence). The studies did not report on blood infections in the newborn infant (sepsis). The numbers of women who had urinary tract infection (very low‐quality evidence), serious infectious complications (very low‐quality evidence) or fever after birth (very low‐quality evidence) also did not clearly differ between groups. There was no clear difference between groups in terms of how long women spent in hospital and no data reported on the number of women who were readmitted to hospital. No women had allergic reactions to the antibiotics (very low‐quality evidence) in the three studies that reported this outcome. None of the studies reported information about whether the babies had any immediate adverse reactions to the antibiotics. 
