Gene therapy for peripheral arterial disease
Background 
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) occurs when the blood flow to the limbs is restricted because of narrowed arteries. This circulatory problem is increasing in the population because of increased levels of diabetes and because the population is ageing. Due to restricted blood flow, PAD can cause pain in the legs while walking, usually after some distance (known as 'intermittent claudication'). As the disease becomes more severe, a person can experience serious pain while at rest, as well as ulcers in the feet and legs (known as 'critical limb ischaemia'). PAD can be treated with medication or through interventions such as surgical or endovascular procedures (less invasive than surgery, endovascular intervention is carried out through a small incision to access the vessels). However, many people will not respond to medication, and surgical or endovascular procedures may not be appropriate because of medical risks. In these cases, for extreme PAD, the only option for treating the condition is amputation. Therapies are needed that can help repair the vessels in the limbs of people with PAD to restore adequate blood flow. 
Gene therapy is a novel approach whereby genetic material, encoded for proteins that may help to improve blood flow by restoring blood vessels, is injected into a person's legs. Trials have shown that this treatment is safe, but whether it is effective in reducing the risk of amputation or improving quality of life remains unknown. 
Review question 
Is there a difference in outcomes of effectiveness (such as amputation, death, ulcer healing, and quality of life) between patients with symptomatic PAD who are given gene therapy and those who are not given gene therapy? 
Study characteristics 
We included 17 studies that had a total of 1988 participants (evidence current until November 2017). These studies used various types of gene therapy as well as different dosages, some providing single treatments and some repeated treatments. Most of the studies included people with critical limb ischaemia; three studies included people with intermittent claudication. 
Key results 
When combining the data, we found no clear differences between people who received gene therapy and those who did not in terms of amputation‐free survival (patients who did not have an amputation and did not die), major amputation (above the ankle), or death. We did see improvement in complete ulcer healing in the gene therapy treatment group compared to the control group. Studies show no clear differences in pain symptom scores, but we evaluated only two studies for this outcome. Not enough data are available to show if there was a difference between groups for the measure of blood flow known as the 'ankle brachial index'. We were not able to combine data on quality of life or pain‐free walking distances (distances one can walk without experiencing leg pain). 
Quality of the evidence 
Risk of bias of the included studies varied greatly, and this was a concern because studies did not clearly report on their methods nor on follow‐up of participants. Most studies used a placebo control, which increases the risk that outcomes may have been different if people knew they were given treatment or control. Corporations that produce the tested treatments sponsored all included trials. 
The quality of evidence varied from moderate to very low. For amputation‐free survival, major amputation, and death, we considered the quality of evidence to be moderate because of differences between studies. For ulcer healing, risk of bias was a matter of concern, and study results were imprecise because few events were reported. The quality of evidence for quality of life was very low because of differences between studies and insufficient information to combine study findings. The quality of evidence for the ankle brachial index was low because only one study with few participants reported this outcome. For pain symptom scores, the quality of evidence was very low because of technical problems within one of the two studies, as well as differences between the two studies and few participants. 
