Psychological interventions for people living with hemophilia
Review question 
Do psychological interventions improve the quality of life in people with hemophilia?
Background 
Hemophilia is an inherited bleeding disorder. Affected individuals bleed in their joints, and, if untreated, develop crippling joint damage occurring from recurrent joint bleeds. Depending on treatment availability, people living with hemophilia may or may not be able to enjoy a 'normal' or fulfilling life, and often present limitations in the range of physical activity, sports participation, family‐life planning and undertaking education and work attainment. Psychological interventions are often claimed to be important in order to minimise the impact of hemophilia and its affect on the quality of life of individuals living with the condition. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 13 June 2019.
Study characteristics 
We included trials comparing people with hemophilia receiving any psychological intervention compared with other individuals receiving a different intervention or no intervention at all. 
We found seven trials with 362 people with hemophilia aged between 6 and 65 years of age. Trials compared either a DVD plus information booklet or computerised learning or auto‐hypnosis (self‐hypnosis) or relaxation techniques to no treatment and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. The trials lasted from one to six months. 
Key results 
All treatments were safe, no major side effects were reported. Psycho‐educational interventions in children and adolescents seemed to promote a sense of self‐efficacy and better self‐management skills, but the quality of the evidence suggests that more rigorous experimental design is required. One trial in adults did not show any effect. Self‐hypnosis and relaxation techniques were not tested for the primary outcome but were useful in decreasing the number and severity of joint bleeds when drug treatment was not available. The effects of these interventions on quality of life vary. The major problem we encountered in this review is the difference in trial designs, interventions and outcome measures used across the trials. We strongly suggest that researchers in the field consider developing a core outcome set to streamline future research. Randomization was proven to be safe and acceptable in this research field, and blinding of outcome assessors should be considered in the presence of patient‐reported outcomes. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was low to very low.
