Neuroprotection (medicines to protect nerves involved in sight) for treatment of glaucoma in adults 
Review aim  The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if neuroprotective medications (which aim to protect the nerves and cells in the eye) are effective for treating glaucoma in adults. We searched for all relevant studies to answer this question and found one study. 
Key messages  Neuroprotective glaucoma medications aim to prevent vision loss in eyes with glaucoma. However, at present there is not enough evidence to show if these medicines are effective treatments for glaucoma or protect nerves and cells in the eyes directly. 
What was studied in this review?  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. The disease leads to damage of the optic nerve that worsens over time. Furthermore, cells in the retina that send messages to the optic nerve (retinal ganglion cells) become damaged and die off. This affects normal sight in the areas of the middle, sides, or top and bottom of a person’s view (loss of visual field). 
Medicines exist that might protect the optic nerve from damage and prevent the death of retinal ganglion cells in people with glaucoma. Neuroprotective medication(s) are prescribed for glaucoma with the goal of preventing or slowing vision loss by protecting the optic nerve. 
Key results  We searched multiple electronic databases for studies and found one study that compared two different eyedrop treatments, given to two groups of adults with low‐pressure glaucoma. One group received brimonidine, a neuroprotective drug. The other group received timolol, a drug that lowers fluid pressure in the eyes. The study investigators followed these two groups of people for four years to see if either treatment protected the optic nerve and prevented vision loss. 
The study began with 99 people in the brimonidine group and 79 people in the timolol group. After four years, many of the people had dropped out of the study: only 45 people (45%) remained in the brimonidine group and 56 (70%) people in the timolol group. As so many people dropped out, and more people who left the study were taking brimonidine than were taking timolol, it was difficult to interpret the results of the study. Bearing this in mind, after four years of treatment, people in the brimonidine group had kept more of their vision (40/45 or 88%) than those in the timolol group (38/56 or 67%). We do not know the results for the people who dropped out of the study. 
Neither group showed any important change in eye pressure (intraocular pressure). Information about visual sharpness (visual acuity) was reported sufficiently for analysis. No information about vertical cup‐disc ratio (a measure of potential optic nerve damage), quality of life or economic outcome was reported. The most common side effect was an allergic reaction to the medicines in the eye, which affected 20/99 (20%) people in the brimonidine group and 3/79 (4%) people in the timolol group. 
How up‐to‐date is this review?  We searched for studies published up to 16 August 2016. 
