Massage for promoting mental and physical health in infants under the age of six months
This review aimed to assess the impact of infant massage on mental and physical outcomes for healthy mother‐infant dyads in the first six months of life. A total of 34 randomised trials were included. Twenty of these had significant problems with their design and the way they were carried out. This means that the we are not as confident as we would otherwise be that the findings are valid. That is to say, the findings of these 20 included studies may over‐ or under‐estimate the true effect of massage therapy.  
We combined the data for 14 outcomes measured physical health and 18 outcomes measured aspects of mental health or development. The results show limited statistically significant benefits for a number of aspects of physical health (for example, weight, length, head/arm/leg circumference, 24‐hour sleep duration; time spent crying or fussing; blood bilirubin and number of episodes of illness) and mental health/development (for example, fine/gross motor skills personal and social behaviour and psychomotor development). However, all significant results were lost either at later follow‐up points or when we removed the large number of studies regarded to be at high risk of bias. 
These findings do not currently support the use of infant massage with low‐risk population groups of parents and infants. The results obtained from this review may be due to the poor quality of many of the included studies, the failure to address the mechanisms by which infant massage could have an impact on the outcomes being assessed, and the inclusion of inappropriate outcomes for population groups (such as weight gain). Future research should focus on the benefits of infant massage for higher‐risk population groups (for example, socially deprived parent‐infant dyads), the duration of massage programmes, and could address differences between babies being massaged by parents or healthcare professionals. 
