Promoting patient uptake and adherence in cardiac rehabilitation
Background 
Cardiac rehabilitation programmes aid recovery from cardiac events such as heart attack, coronary stent placement, and bypass surgery, and reduce the likelihood of further illness. Cardiac rehabilitation programmes offer the following core components: exercise, education, risk factor management, and psychological counselling/support. Despite the benefits of cardiac rehabilitation, not everyone enrolls, and, of those who do, many people do not adhere to and complete the programme. This review evaluated trials of strategies to promote the utilisation of cardiac rehabilitation (enrolment, adherence, and completion). 
Search 
The search was current to July 2018.
Study characteristics 
We searched a wide variety of scientific databases for randomised controlled trials (studies that allocate participants to one of two or more treatment groups in a random manner) in adults (over 18 years of age) who had a heart attack, had angina (chest pain), underwent coronary artery bypass grafting (a surgical procedure that diverts blood around narrowed or clogged sections of the major arteries to improve blood flow and oxygen supply to the heart muscle) or percutaneous coronary intervention (a procedure that opens up blocked coronary arteries), or with heart failure who were eligible for cardiac rehabilitation. 
Reviewers found 26 trials (5299 participants) that were suitable for inclusion (16 trials of interventions to improve enrolment, eight trials of interventions to improve adherence, and seven trials of interventions to improve programme completion). These studies evaluated a variety of techniques to improve utilisation such as providing peer support, starting cardiac rehabilitation early after hospitalisation, providing patient education, offering cardiac rehabilitation outside a hospital setting, and offering shorter programmes or women‐only programmes. 
Key results 
Strategies to increase enrolment were effective, particularly those that targeted healthcare providers, training nurses, or allied healthcare providers to intervene face‐to‐face. Interventions to increase adherence to programmes and to increase completion were effective, but it remains unclear which specific strategies were implemented. 
We found no studies providing information about potential harms and two studies reporting costs of these strategies to increase use of cardiac rehabilitation. Some studies provided interventions to increase rehabilitation utilisation in women and older patients. Evidence was insufficient for quantitative assessment of whether women‐tailored programmes were associated with increased utilisation, but motivating women appears key. For older participants, qualitative analysis suggested that peer support or postdischarge visits may improve enrolment, and group sessions promoting self‐regulation skills may increase completion. 
Quality of the evidence 
Most of the included studies were of good quality (i.e. low risk of arriving at wrong conclusions because of favouritism by researchers). The quality of the evidence was low for enrolment and adherence and was moderate for completion. Publication bias for enrolment was not evident. 
