B‐type natriuretic peptide‐guided treatment for heart failure patients
Review question 
We aimed to discover whether using B‐type natriuretic‐guided treatment or a health plan alone is more effective for managing patients with heart failure. 
Background 
Heart failure is a complex condition that occurs when the heart does not pump blood effectively enough to meet the needs of the body. It is caused by a range of diseases that impair the structure and function of the heart and may result in breathlessness, fatigue and fluid retention. People with heart failure are frequently users of general practice and hospitals, particularly as inpatients. Furthermore, they have reduced life expectancy, although medicines and other treatments can improve the chance of survival. 
B‐type natriuretic peptide (NP) is a substance produced in the heart. The measurement of NP can be used to indicate the condition of the heart. For some time, NP has been used for diagnosing heart failure and predicting what is likely to happen. We wanted to discover if NP may also offer a way to manage and make the best use of medicines. 
Study selection and characteristics 
We carried out a review of all studies and the evidence is current to 15 March 2016. We found 18 studies of NP‐guided treatment in which 3660 patients with heart failure took part. Patients were between 62 to 80 years old at the start of the studies. The duration of each study ranged from one to 54 months. 
Eight out of the 18 studies were part or fully funded by pharmaceutical companies, one was funded by a national research body, five were partially funded either by national research grants, lotteries, hospital funds and/or pharmaceutical companies and four studies did not report the funding source. 
Key results 
The evidence was unclear as to whether number of deaths from any cause varied between patients with heart failure using NP‐guided treatment compared with those using a health plan alone. Nor was it clear as to whether there were less deaths when the results were separated into patients older or younger than 75 years old (age results only included three studies). Furthermore, we found that the evidence was unclear whether the number of deaths from heart failure alone varied between the NP‐guided treatment or health plan alone groups. 
We found that hospital admission due to heart failure may be reduced in the patients using NP‐guided treatment compared with a health plan alone. Based on these results we would expect that out of 1000 patients with heart failure who are guided by a health plan alone, 377 would experience an admission to hospital due to heart failure. Whereas, between 230 and 301 patients would experience an admission to hospital due to heart failure if they received NP‐guided treatment. However, the evidence was unclear as to whether the numbers of hospital admission from any cause were affected. 
