Fixed‐dose oral dexketoprofen plus tramadol for acute postoperative pain in adults
Bottom line 
This review found that most people with moderate or severe pain after an operation get good pain relief from taking dexketoprofen 25 mg plus tramadol 75 mg. 
Background 
Acute pain is short‐lived pain often felt soon after injury, including after operations. Most people who have an operation have moderate or severe pain afterwards. Painkillers are tested in people with acute pain, often following the removal of wisdom teeth. This pain is usually treated with painkillers taken by mouth. We believe these results can be applied to other acute painful conditions. 
The use of two different painkillers in a single tablet at fixed doses has been found to provide good pain relief to a high proportion of people with moderate or severe pain after an operation. This review examined a new fixed‐dose combination of two painkillers, a nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory medicine (dexketoprofen) with an opioid medicine (tramadol). 
Study characteristics 
In May 2016, we found three studies involving 1853 people. The main comparison was between the fixed‐dose of dexketoprofen 25 mg plus tramadol 75 mg and placebo (a dummy treatment). The studies tested single doses after wisdom tooth extraction, hip replacement operations, and gynaecological (female reproductive system) operations. Studies included adults over a range of ages, and 7 out of 10 participants were women. The main outcome was the number of participants having at least half of the maximum possible pain relief over the first six hours after taking the tablets. 
Key results 
All three studies reported the main outcome for dexketoprofen 25 mg plus tramadol 75 mg. There were 748 participants in the comparison with placebo. About 7 in 10 people achieved this outcome with dexketoprofen 25 mg plus tramadol 75 mg, compared with 3 in 10 with placebo. The combination was significantly better than placebo, and better than either dexketoprofen or tramadol alone. The pain relief lasted a long time, probably eight hours or more, but the exact duration could not be determined. Fewer people needed to take additional painkillers with the combination treatment than with placebo. 
