Chest X‐rays in acute chest infections
Acute chest infections (lower respiratory tract infections) such as pneumonia, bronchitis and bronchiolitis are a major cause of deaths worldwide and expected to be amongst the leading four causes of death by 2030. The most affected population groups are children under 59 months and adults over 50 years of age. Patients with chest infections often have a fever, cough, shortness of breath and phlegm production. A chest X‐ray is commonly used to help diagnose and manage chest infections and is widely used in high‐income countries. However, the impact of chest X‐rays in terms of how they may change patient recovery in suspected chest infection has not been evaluated. We focused on whether the use of chest X‐rays compared to not using them led to improved outcomes such as a faster recovery rate, less time in hospital and fewer complications for the patient. We did not investigate the use of chest X‐rays as a tool in the diagnosis of chest infections or the differences in the interpretation of X‐rays between doctors. 
Two trials with a total of 2024 participants were included in this review. The trial published in 1983 in the USA included only adults, while the trial in 1998 in South Africa included only children. Both trials were set in large metropolitan cities. We were unable to combine the results of the two studies due to incomplete data. However, both trials came to the same conclusion regarding the use of chest X‐rays in chest infections, except in the subgroup of patients with evidence of infection (infiltrates) on their X‐rays. In both adults and children, chest X‐rays did not result in significant differences in recovery time. 
In summary, there were no differences in patient outcomes between the groups with or without chest X‐ray. Although both studies suggest that chest X‐rays do not improve patient outcomes, it is not clear if this finding can be applied to all populations and settings. Results may be different in resource poor countries. Our conclusions are limited due to the lack of complete data available and by the risk of bias of the studies. Adverse effects of chest X‐rays were not assessed by either study. We assessed the quality of the evidence from both trials as being moderate. For the remainder of this review, X‐rays will be referred to as radiographs. 
The evidence is current as of February 2013.
