Surgery for deep venous insufficiency
Background 
Deep venous insufficiency is a problem in the veins of the legs that can lead to leg ulcers (sores), pain and swelling. It may be caused by a problem with the valves of the vein, by a blockage of the veins or a combination of these events. For most people, wearing special compression stockings and treating the ulcers is enough. When this does not ease the problem, surgery is sometimes tried. It is unclear how much benefit there is from surgery. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We looked for studies treating deep venous insufficiency with surgery (searched 23 June 2020). We found four studies that randomised 273 participants to treatment or control interventions. All included studies reported on outcomes following surgical repair of venous valves (valvuloplasty). All included studies investigated primary valve incompetence (when valves do not close properly). We found no studies investigating other surgical procedures for treatment or the results of surgery for secondary valvular incompetence (for example, when valves are damaged as a result of deep vein thrombosis and do not close properly), or for venous obstruction. As different outcomes were reported, we could not combine the results of these studies. No studies reported ulcer healing and ulcer recurrence. One study did not investigate this, and the remaining three studies did not include people with ulcers or active ulceration. Three studies reported no major complications of surgery or no incidence of deep vein thrombosis (a blood clot that forms in a deep vein, usually in the leg or pelvis) during follow‐up. 
We assessed clinical changes using the 'clinical, aetiological, anatomical and pathophysiological' (CEAP) classification score. One study reported an improved CEAP score three years after surgery in both groups, and a greater improvement from before surgery in limbs that had undergone valvuloplasty plus ligation (where a vein is tied off) compared with ligation alone. In another study, participants with worsening deep vein incompetence over the five years before surgery had higher rates of improvement in clinical condition with valvuloplasty plus ligation compared with ligation only after seven years, but in participants with stable deep vein incompetence, there was no additional benefit from the valvuloplasty. 
One study reported improvement in patient‐reported quality of life (including pain) in both groups and a greater improvement compared to before surgery in people who had undergone external valvuloplasty using a technique called limited anterior plication at 10 years' follow‐up. A second study reported that leg heaviness and pain was resolved completely in 36/40 limbs treated with valvuloplasty plus ligation and 22/40 limbs treated with ligation alone at three years' follow‐up. 
Reliability of the evidence 
The reliability of the evidence was very low or low because there were only four studies with small numbers of participants, and there was a high risk of bias (information regarding how it was decided what treatment a participant received and who knew this was missing in three of the four studies). 
