Shunts compared with endoscopic intervention to prevent further episodes of variceal bleeding in people with liver cirrhosis 
Background 
People with scarring of the liver (cirrhosis) may develop high pressure in the portal vein (the vein that carries blood from the gut to the liver). This high pressure results in abnormally dilated veins (varices) in the gullet (oesophagus), in the stomach, or in the intestine, which may cause life‐threatening bleeding. People who have bled once are at high risk of bleeding in the future, so it is important to prevent further bleeding episodes in these people. Different treatment options are available to prevent further bleeding. One option is endoscopic treatment, which uses a flexible camera to examine the affected area and to seal varices with elastic bands, or to inject the varices with a substance to close the veins. A second option is 'shunting', which diverts blood flow away from the problematic vein, reducing pressure and thereby reducing the chance of bleeding. There are three main types of shunts: total shunt, distal splenorenal shunt, and transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt. Total shunt and distal splenorenal shunt were more commonly used in the past and require invasive surgical procedures. TIPS are now much more commonly used, as they do not require invasive surgery. 
Review question 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to compare shunts versus endoscopic treatments with or without further medications in people with liver cirrhosis who had previously bled from varices, by collecting and analysing all relevant studies in this topic area and by reviewing the evidence. 
Study characteristics 
In June 2020, we reviewed the evidence. We found 27 randomised clinical trials (trials where participants are allocated to groups at random) involving 1828 participants. Three trials investigated total shunt (164 participants); five trials investigated distal splenorenal shunt (352 participants); and 19 trials investigated transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (1312 participants). The source of funding was unclear in 16 trials. Eleven trials were funded by the government or received grants from local hospitals or universities. 
Results 
Evidence suggesting whether shunt treatments compared with endoscopic treatments with or without further medications alter the overall risk of death from any cause (all‐cause mortality), reduce the risk of bleeding from varices, or reduce the risk of dying from bleeding varices (death due to variceal bleeding) was very uncertain. 
Evidence that people treated with shunts compared with endoscopic treatments with or without further medications are at increased risk of acute hepatic encephalopathy (brain dysfunction associated with liver disease) or chronic hepatic encephalopathy (brain dysfunction that occurs repeatedly or does not fully improve) was also very uncertain. 
We could not conclude with certainty whether people treated with shunt stayed in hospital longer than people treated with endoscopy with or without further medications, or which treatment was more expensive, as we were not confident that combining the results from different studies would produce a meaningful result. No trials reported on the impact of treatments on patient quality of life. 
Risk of bias 
The results of our analyses must be interpreted with caution due to concerns about the quality of included trials. Weaknesses in the design of these studies could influence results, making them potentially misleading. 
Conclusions 
We cannot say for sure that portosystemic shunts when compared with endoscopic treatment associated sometimes with medical treatment modify the risk of overall death (all‐cause mortality), reduce the risk of repeated episodes of bleeding, or increase the risk of developing hepatic encephalopathy. We need properly conducted trials assessing important outcomes for people with cirrhosis and health providers. 
