Can people stop smoking by cutting down the amount they smoke first?
Background 
The standard way people are told to quit smoking is to smoke as normal until a quit day, when they stop using all cigarettes. However, many have tried this before and might like to try something new. Some people would just prefer to cut down the amount of cigarettes they smoke before quitting completely. Before healthcare services give people a choice of cutting down first or stopping all at once we need to find out whether cutting down helps as many people to stop smoking. 
There are different ways that people could reduce the amount they smoke (for example, setting goals, lengthening the time between cigarette breaks) and some of these may work better than others. This review looks at whether cutting down before quitting helps people to stop smoking, and the best ways that people can cut down to help them stop completely. 
Study characteristics 
This review includes 51 studies of over 22,000 people who smoked tobacco. Most were adults, and people typically smoked at least 23 cigarettes a day at the start of the studies. All studies included at least one group of people who were asked to cut down their smoking and then quit tobacco smoking altogether. This group was compared to either a group who did not receive any treatment to stop smoking, a group who were asked to stop smoking all at once, or a group who were also asked to cut down their smoking in a different way. We did not include studies which asked people to cut down without quitting. Studies lasted for at least six months. The evidence is up to date to October 2018. 
Key results 
There was not enough information available to decide whether cutting down before quitting helped more people to stop smoking than no stop‐smoking treatment. However, people who were asked to stop smoking all of their cigarettes at once were not more likely to quit than people who were asked to cut down their smoking before quitting. This suggests that asking people to cut down their smoking first may be a useful way to help people to stop smoking. People who cut down their smoking while using varenicline or a fast‐acting form of nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), such as gum or lozenge, may be more likely to quit smoking than people who cut down their smoking without using a medicine to help them. Giving people face‐to‐face support to cut down their smoking may help more people to quit than if they are provided with self‐help materials to cut down by themselves. There was not enough information available to decide whether other features of the cutting‐down‐to‐quit intervention improved people's chances of stopping smoking. 
We looked at whether being asked to cut down smoking before quitting resulted in negative effects, such as cigarette cravings, difficulty sleeping, low mood or irritability. Most studies did not provide information about this; more studies are therefore needed to answer this question. 
