Carbamazepine versus phenobarbitone monotherapy (single drug treatment) for epilepsy
This is an updated version of the Cochrane Review previously published in Issue 12, 2016 of the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews. 
Background 
Epilepsy is a common neurological disorder in which abnormal electrical discharges from the brain cause recurrent seizures. We studied two types of epileptic seizures in this review: generalised onset seizures, in which electrical discharges begin in one part of the brain and move throughout the brain; and focal onset seizures, in which the seizure is generated in and affects one part of the brain (the whole hemisphere of the brain or part of a lobe of the brain). Focal seizures may become generalised (secondary generalisation), and move from one part of the brain throughout the brain. For around 70% of people with epilepsy, a single antiepileptic medication can control generalised onset or focal onset seizures. 
This review applies to people with focal seizures (with or without secondary generalisation) and people with generalised tonic‐clonic seizures, a specific generalised seizure type. This review does not apply to people with other generalised seizure types such as absence seizures or myoclonic seizures, as the recommended treatments for these seizure types are different. 
Worldwide, phenobarbitone and carbamazepine are commonly used antiepileptic drugs, however, carbamazepine is used more commonly in the USA and Europe because of concerns over side‐effects associated with phenobarbitone, particularly concerns over behavioural changes in children treated with phenobarbitone. Phenobarbitone is still commonly used in low‐ and middle‐income countries in Africa, Asia, and South America because of the low cost of the drug. 
Objective 
The aim of this review was to compare how effective these drugs are at controlling seizures, to find out if they are associated with side effects that may result in individuals stopping the medication, and to inform a choice between these medications. 
Methods 
The last search for trials was in May 2018. We assessed the evidence from 13 clinical trials in which people received either carbamazepine or phenobarbitone and their treatment was decided randomly. We were able to combine data for 836 people from six of the 13 trials; for the remaining 619 people from seven trials, data were not available to use in this review. 
Key results 
Results of the review suggest that people are likely to stop taking phenobarbitone treatment earlier than carbamazepine treatment, because of seizure recurrence, side‐effects of the drug, or both. Results also suggest that recurrence of seizures after starting treatment with phenobarbitone may happen later than treatment with carbamazepine (and therefore a seizure free period of 6 months or 12 months may occur earlier with phenobarbitone than with carbamazepine) for people with focal onset seizures, and vice‐versa for people with generalised onset seizures. 
Some side effects reported by people taking carbamazepine and people taking phenobarbitone were abdominal pain, nausea, vomiting, tiredness, motor problems (such as poor co‐ordination), cognitive problems (poor memory), rashes and other skin problems. Behavioural side effects such as aggression were reported on both drugs in three trials in children. 
Quality of the evidence 
Some of the trials contributing data to the review had methodological problems, which may have introduced bias and inconsistent results into this review, and some individuals over the age of 30 with newly diagnosed generalised onset seizures may have had their seizure type wrongly diagnosed. These problems may have affected the results of this review and we judged the quality of the evidence provided by this review to be moderate to low quality. We do not suggest using the results of this review alone for making a choice between carbamazepine or phenobarbitone for the treatment of epilepsy. We recommend that all future trials comparing these drugs or any other antiepileptic drugs should be designed using high‐quality methods to ensure results are also of high quality. 
