Concurrent health promotion interventions for preventing cardiovascular disease in low‐ and middle income countries ("resource‐limited settings") 
Review question 
This review examines the effectiveness of health promotion interventions that aim to reduce more than one major cardiovascular risk factor (multiple risk factor intervention) for the primary prevention of cardiovascular disease in low‐ and middle‐income countries (LMICs). Such risk factors are overweight/obesity, high blood pressure, smoking, too much bad cholesterol or low physical activity levels. 
Background 
Evidence from high‐income countries indicates that multiple risk factor intervention programmes do not result in reductions in cardiovascular disease (CVD) events. Given the increasing incidence of CVDs and lower CVD health awareness in LMICs it is possible that such programmes may have beneficial effects. One vital element in improving this situation is a comprehensive and relevant evidence base, which would equip LMICs to take informed action. The components of health promotion activities may include the following: (a) dietary advice to promote healthy eating habits; (b) reducing harmful alcohol intake; (c) advice on the cessation of cigarette smoking; (d) advice on increasing daily physical activity; and (e) reducing body weight. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a thorough search of the medical literature up to June 2014. We identified 13 trials that recruited 7310 participants. Two trials recruited healthy participants and the other 11 trials recruited people at varying risk of CVD, such as participants with known hypertension("high blood pressure") and type 2 diabetes, and randomly assigned them to either a multiple risk factor intervention or to no intervention. The trials were conducted between 2001 and 2010, and published between 2004 and 2012. Three trials were conducted in Turkey. Two trials each were conducted in China and Mexico. One trial recruited participants from both China and Nigeria. The other trials were conducted in Brazil, India, Pakistan, Romania and Jordan. The content of the interventions varied across the trials; most of the trials included dietary advice and advice on physical activity. The trials follow‐up the participants between six months to 30 months (average follow‐up period was 13.3 months). 
Key results 
We found that evidence for effects on cardiovascular disease events was scarce, with only one trial reporting these. None of the included trials reported deaths from any cause. Multiple risk factors interventions may lower systolic blood pressure, diastolic blood pressure, body mass index and waist circumference. We found no difference for eating more fruit and vegetables, rates of smoking cessation, measure of blood glucose sugar was for the past two to three months, fasting blood sugar, high density lipoprotein (HDL) cholesterol, low density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol and total cholesterol. None of the included trials reported on harms. 
