Methadone for neuropathic pain in adults
Bottom lineThere is no good evidence to support or reject the suggestion that methadone works in any neuropathic pain condition. 
BackgroundNeuropathic pain is pain coming from a damaged nervous system. It is different from pain messages that are carried along healthy nerves from damaged tissue (e.g. from a fall or cut, or an arthritic knee). Neuropathic pain is often treated by different medicines (drugs) from those used for pain from damaged tissue, which we often think of as painkillers. There are different types of neuropathic pain, with different causes. Some medicines that are used to treat depression or epilepsy can be very effective in some people with neuropathic pain by altering the signal that is carried along nerves that transmit painful stimuli (something that results in a change in how the body works). Sometimes opioid painkillers are used to treat neuropathic pain. Opioid painkillers are drugs such as morphine. Morphine is derived from plants, but many opioids are also made by chemical synthesis rather than being extracted from plants. Methadone is one of these synthetic opioids. Methadone has many characteristics that make it different from other opioids, which may influence its effectiveness or the side effects that patients experience. 
Study characteristicsIn November 2016, we searched for clinical trials where methadone was used to treat neuropathic pain in adults. We found three small studies, enrolling 105 participants, that met our requirements for the review. The studies were all quite different in their design: the methods of two studies reflected how frequently methadone is prescribed in practice, in that participants received it twice or three times daily. One trial had a more experimental design. All three trials had two phases. The lengths of the studies varied, from 20 days to around eight weeks for each phase. The studies were similar in that all administered low doses of methadone, which may or may not reflect the doses typically prescribed in clinical practice. 
