Minimally invasive surgical techniques versus open myomectomy for uterine fibroids
Review question: In this Cochrane review, we compared surgical results after myomectomy by open surgery versus myomectomy by laparoscopy and hysteroscopy. 
Background: Fibroids are common benign tumours arising in the uterus. Sometimes they cause problems such as abnormal vaginal bleeding, pain and difficulty passing urine and bowel motions. Fibroids can be removed by an operation called myomectomy, which is performed traditionally by cutting into the abdomen (laparotomy). In this procedure, the fibroid is removed and the uterus is conserved. Myomectomy can also be performed by using keyhole surgery (laparoscopy and hysteroscopy). Laparoscopic myomectomy involves small cuts in the abdomen (three or four, about 1 cm long) followed by removal of the fibroid using a telescopic rod lens system and long laparoscopic instruments. The fibroids are then taken out by a procedure called morcellation, in which they are shaved into smaller pieces. Hysteroscopy is useful for fibroids, which are mostly inside the cavity of the uterus, and does not require any cut to the abdomen . 
Study characteristics: Nine studies including 808 premenopausal women with uterine fibroids compared various methods of myomectomy. These studies were conducted in Italy (seven studies), Austria and China. The evidence is current to July 2014. 
Key results: Myomectomy by laparoscopy is a less painful procedure compared with open surgery. Postoperative pain was measured on a visual analogue scale (VAS), with zero meaning 'no pain at all' and 10 signifying 'pain as bad as it could be.' Results show that among women undergoing laparoscopic myomectomy, the mean pain score at six hours (mean difference (MD) ‐2.40, 95% confidence interval (CI) ‐2.88 to ‐1.92) and at 48 hours (MD ‐1.90, 95% CI ‐2.80 to ‐1.00) would be likely to range from about three points lower to one point lower on a VAS zero‐to‐10 scale. Results of our analysis regarding pain score at 24 hours were uncertain (MD ‐0.29, 95% CI ‐0.70 to 0.12). Risk of fever after the operation was reduced by 50% in women undergoing laparoscopic myomectomy (OR 0.44, 95% CI 0.26 to 0.77). Drop in haemoglobin level (indicating reduced blood loss) could not be compared because results of the analysis were not conclusive because of differences in results with even the same surgical techniques. Risk of injury to intestines and other organs could not be determined in this meta‐analysis. No evidence was found of increased risk of recurrence of fibroids after laparoscopic surgery compared with open surgery (OR 1.12, 95% CI 0.63 to 1.99). 
