A machine pushes air into the lungs helping people with cystic fibrosis breathe, clear mucus, reduce respiratory failure, improve exercise tolerance 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence that mechanically pushing air into the lungs through a mask helps clear mucus, improves breathing overnight, reduces respiratory failure and improves exercise tolerance. 
Background 
As cystic fibrosis worsens, breathing becomes difficult, indicating the start of respiratory failure (too much carbon dioxide and not enough oxygen in the blood). As respiratory failure progresses, people may become breathless and have problems clearing mucus. Respiratory failure eventually results in death. 
Non‐invasive ventilation administers room air or oxygen through a mask and has been used to help people with more severe cystic fibrosis to clear their airways of mucus and improve breathing during sleep; it may also help with exercise. It is not certain exactly how this works, but it might reduce fatigue in the respiratory muscles, stop the airways from closing during prolonged exhalation and reduce the effort needed to maintain ventilation and oxygen levels. Treatment has been recommended when breathing muscles are weak, when a person has difficulty clearing mucus using other airway clearance techniques or when there are high levels of carbon dioxide in the blood during sleep or during exercise. 
This is an update of a previously published review.
Search date 
Evidence is current to 08 August 2016.
Study characteristics 
This review includes 10 trials (191 people with cystic fibrosis) ‐ seven single‐treatment sessions and a two‐week trial, a six‐week trial and a three‐month trial. Six single‐treatment trials, the two‐week trial and the three‐month trial compared non‐invasive ventilation with other airway clearance techniques. Two single‐treatment trials and the six‐week trial looked at non‐invasive ventilation for overnight breathing support compared to oxygen or normal room air. One single‐treatment trial compared non‐invasive ventilation with no additional treatment during an exercise test. 
Key results 
Single‐treatment trials of non‐invasive ventilation for airway clearance showed that this may be easier with non‐invasive ventilation and people with cystic fibrosis may prefer it to other methods. We could not find evidence that non‐invasive ventilation increased the amount of mucus coughed up, but it did improve some measures of lung function, at least in the short term. The two‐week trial did not demonstrate clear benefits between groups. The original three‐month trial report stated an improvement in lung clearance index. One person in one of these trials reported pain on respiratory muscle testing. 
The three trials comparing overnight support from non‐invasive ventilation measured lung function, quality of life and carbon dioxide levels; they showed it is effective, safe and acceptable. We found no clear differences between non‐invasive ventilation and oxygen or room air, except for exercise performance which improved with non‐invasive ventilation compared to room air after six weeks. Two trials reported side effects. In the first trial, one person found the mask uncomfortable. In the second trial, one person in the room air group had collapsed lungs and two people could not tolerate increased pressure when breathing in. 
The trial comparing the effects of non‐invasive ventilation to no treatment on exercise capacity found no clear differences between groups. 
Non‐invasive ventilation may help alongside other airway clearance techniques, particularly when people with cystic fibrosis have difficulty coughing up mucus and during sleep. Long‐term trials are needed with enough people to show the clinical effects of non‐invasive ventilation on airway clearance, during sleep and exercise training in severe disease. 
