Medical therapies for treating heavy menstrual bleeding in women with bleeding disorders
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect and safety of non‐surgical treatments versus each other, placebo or no treatment for reducing menstrual blood loss in women with bleeding disorders. This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review. 
Background 
Heavy menstrual bleeding is one of the most common symptoms in women with bleeding disorders. A sizeable population of women with heavy menstrual bleeding are affected by either inherited or acquired bleeding disorders and at the time of presentation these women are considerably younger than the women who suffer from this due to other reasons. Since heavy menstrual bleeding starts at the very onset of menarche and continues throughout reproductive life, the quality of life of these women is severely affected and they are at an increased risk of developing iron‐deficiency anaemia. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 25 August 2016.
Study characteristics 
The review included three studies on non‐surgical treatments in 175 women with a bleeding disorder who were experiencing heavy menstrual bleeding. Twostudies compared desmopressin to placebo and one study compared desmopressin to tranexamic acid. The women included in the studies were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. The studies lasted from two to four months. 
Key results 
Two studies of the three studies (with a total of 59 women) found no clear evidence of a difference in desmopressin (1‐deamino‐8‐D‐arginine vasopressin) in reducing menstrual blood loss when compared to placebo. One of these studies continued with an open non‐randomised comparison of a combination of desmopressin with tranexamic acid versus placebo and found a significant reduction in menstrual blood loss. However, the non‐randomised design of this comparison is an additional potential source of bias. 
The third study (116 women), which had more participants than the other two studies combined, found a greater reduction in menstrual blood loss with tranexamic acid use than with desmopressin. We were unable to present any data on quality of life from this study, since no differences in between the two intervention groups were reported. There was no clear evidence of difference in the risk of side effects with desmopressin as compared to tranexamic acid. None of the studies dealt with cost effectiveness. 
