How should we give taxane as a single chemotherapy agent to women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer? 
BackgroundThere are a variety of options for chemotherapy treatment of relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. Decisions at relapse include not just what drug, but also what dose and timing of administration. Taxanes can be given in once‐weekly (at a lower dose) or three‐weekly (at a higher dose) regimens, which may lead to differences in the severity of side effects and effectiveness. As relapsed disease suggests incurable disease; it is all the more important to consider side effects and the impact of treatment schedules, as well as quality of life, and not only the life‐prolonging effects of treatment. 
ObjectivesTo assess the benefits and side effects of different treatment intervals and different doses of taxane chemotherapy for women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. 
MethodsWe included randomised‐controlled trials (RCTs) (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) of two or more taxane treatments for women with relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. The clinical outcomes we examined were: 1) overall survival ‐ how long a participant survives after their diagnosis; 2) response rate ‐ how many participants have scan or blood test evidence that their ovarian cancer reduces in size in response to chemotherapy; 3) progression‐free survival ‐ the amount of time a participant lives with the disease without evidence of it continuing to grow; 4) neurotoxicity ‐ how many participants experienced nerve damage leading to sensory or motor co‐ordination problems, usually in their hands and feet; 5) neutropenia ‐ how many participants experienced a dangerous drop in white blood cells (neutrophils) which can lead to infection; 6) alopecia ‐ how many participants experienced high levels of hair loss; 7) quality of life ‐ a measure of the overall impact of the disease and treatment on the participants' daily life; this is recorded by a questionnaire. 
We performed statistical analyses following Cochrane methodology.
ResultsWe included four RCTs which we assessed as being at low risk of bias, i.e. the results are likely to be a fair reflection of the differences between the groups studied. These studies included data for 981 women who had relapsed epithelial ovarian cancer. 
