Group‐based parent training programmes for improving emotional and behavioural adjustment in young children 
Review question 
We wanted to know if group‐based parent training programmes are helpful in improving emotional and behavioural adjustment in young children. 
Background 
Emotional and behavioural problems are common among infants and toddlers and, for many children, these problems continue into their early school and teenage years as well. Parenting practices play an important role in how emotional and behavioural problems in children develop. Parent training programmes aimed at parents of infants and toddlers might help to prevent such problems before they start, as well as treat them after they are established. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific literature for all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs published up to July 2015. RCTs are studies in which people are randomly allocated to treatment groups. Quasi‐RCTs are studies in which people receive treatment based on methods that are not strictly random such as date of birth, or their hospital record number, and the results of quasi‐RCTs are generally considered less trustworthy than those of RCTs. 
We found 24 trials (22 RCTs and two quasi‐RCTs) to include in our review. These studies included, in total, information from 3161 parents and their young children. Eight studies had been carried out in the USA, five in the UK, four in Canada, five in Australia, one in Mexico, and one in Peru. 
All of the studies looked at behavioural, cognitive‐behavioural or videotape modelling parenting programmes. Behavioural programmes are aimed at helping parents develop methods that will reduce bad behaviour, usually with the use of techniques such as praise or rewards. It also aims to help parents set limits that make sense. Cognitive‐behavioral skills allow parents think about behaviour patterns and focus on solutions. Programmes can use a variety of techniques; for example, videotape modelling programmes enable parents to learn by watching videotaped films of other parents implementing some of the techniques described above. 
