Is electrical stimulation effective for treating pressure ulcers?
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out whether electrical stimulation (ES; an electrical current applied to the skin) can help heal pressure ulcers. We collected and analysed all relevant studies (randomised controlled trials) to answer this question and found 20 relevant studies. 
Key messages 
ES compared with no ES probably increases the proportion of pressure ulcers healed and the rate of pressure ulcer healing (moderate certainty evidence) but its effect on time to complete healing and the surface area of pressure ulcers is uncertain (very low certainty evidence). The most commonly reported side effects of ES were reddening of the skin and discomfort. There is a need for better quality research to determine whether ES is safe and effective. 
What was studied in the review? 
Pressure ulcers (also known as pressure sores, bed sores or pressure injuries) are injuries to the skin and/or underlying tissue caused by sustained pressure over bony parts of the body such as the hips, heels or lower back. People with reduced mobility due to age, disability or illness are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
ES is provided by an electrical current that can be applied to the skin in different ways. ES requires the placing of at least two small electrodes on the skin connected to a small battery‐powered device which controls the intensity of the current. ES can be delivered either as a direct or pulsed current. It causes a tingling or vibratory sensation in most people except those who cannot feel due to conditions such as spinal cord injury. We reviewed the evidence about whether ES affects the number of pressure ulcers healed, the size and severity of the pressure ulcers, the time to complete healing, and quality of life. We also wanted to find out about any side effects associated with ES. 
What are the main results of the review? 
This review includes the results of 20 randomised controlled trials dating from 1985 to 2018 and involving 913 participants. The average age of participants ranged from 26 to 83 years; 50% were male. Participants had their pressure ulcers for at least four days and in some cases for more than 12 months. The majority of pressure ulcers (60%) were serious and on or adjacent to the buttocks (62%). Studies were conducted in four different settings, including rehabilitation and geriatric hospitals, medical centres, a residential care centre, and a community‐based centre. ES was administered for an average of five hours per week. Studies compared ES plus usual care (e.g. wound dressing, pressure relief, regular turning, nutritional advice and supplements) to no ES (but with usual care). Eight studies out of 20 were funded by a device manufacturer with a vested interest in the results of the studies. 
Eleven studies that compared ES with no ES indicated that ES probably improves the proportion of pressure ulcers healed (moderate certainty evidence based on 501 participants (512 pressure ulcers)). It is uncertain whether ES decreases pressure ulcer severity on a composite measure (based on 1 study with 15 participants (15 pressure ulcers)). The effect of ES on pressure ulcer area was not estimable because different studies showed very different results. It is uncertain whether ES decreases the surface area of pressure ulcers (very low certainty evidence based on 494 participants (505 pressure ulcers)). We cannot be certain whether ES has an effect on time to complete healing (very low certainty evidence based on 55 participants (55 pressure ulcers)). The common complications related to ES were skin redness and discomfort (low certainty evidence based on 586 participants (602 pressure ulcers)). Twelve studies also indicated that ES probably increases the rate of pressure ulcer healing (moderate certainty evidence based on 561 participants (613 pressure ulcers)). No studies reported results for quality of life or depression. 
