Vitamin E for antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia
Review question 
Is vitamin E useful for treating an unpleasant side effect of taking antipsychotics ‐ tardive dyskinesia ‐ in people with schizophrenia or other similar mental illnesses? 
Background 
People with schizophrenia often hear voices and see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). These symptoms are usually treated with antipsychotic drugs. However, these drugs can have debilitating side effects. Tardive dyskinesia is an involuntary movement that causes the face, mouth, tongue and jaw to convulse, spasm and grimace. It is caused by long‐term or high‐dose use of antipsychotic drugs, is difficult to treat and can be incurable. Vitamin E has been suggested as a treatment, but so far the benefit of using Vitamin E for this purpose seems small. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for trials, July 2015 and April 2017, using the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group's register of trials. The review includes 13 poorly reported randomised trials investigating the effects of vitamin E for people with schizophrenia or other chronic mental illnesses who also developed TD as a result of taking antipsychotics. The trials randomised a total of 478 participants who had been ill for a long time. 
Key results 
Vitamin E may protect against tardive dyskinesia. However, there is no clear evidence that vitamin E improves this problematic and disfiguring condition. 
Quality of the evidence 
Available evidence is weak, limited and poor and we are unable to make any conclusions regarding the use of Vitamin E for antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia. Well‐designed trials involving a large number of participants investigating the effects of vitamin E over long periods of time are needed to determine whether this vitamin provides an effective treatment option for tardive dyskinesia. 
This plain language summary was adapted by the review authors from a summary originally written by Ben Gray, Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation (http://mcpin.org/). 
