Medical interventions to prevent graft rejection after liver transplantation
Background 
Liver transplantation is the main treatment option for people with severe advanced liver disease. When organs or tissues are transplanted from one person (organ donor) to another (organ recipient), the body of the organ recipient identifies the donor organ (or graft) as a foreign body and mounts a response against it in a way similar to the natural body defence mechanism against infections (immune response). This can lead to graft rejection and graft loss resulting in death of the organ recipient. Various medical interventions are used either alone or in combination (immunosuppressive regimen) to prevent graft rejections. The combination of interventions used in the first few months after liver transplantation (induction immunosuppressive regimen) often differs from the combination used for the rest of the patient's life (maintenance immunosuppression). It is unclear which immunosuppressive regimen after liver transplantation is the best. We sought to identify the best maintenance immunosuppressive regimen by searching for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised clinical trials reported until October 2016. We included only trials of participants who had previously undergone liver transplantation. We excluded trials of participants who had undergone multi‐organ transplantation (e.g. liver and kidney transplantations) or participants with established graft rejections. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two interventions at a time (direct comparison), we also employed advanced methods that allow comparison of the many different interventions individually compared in the trials (network meta‐analysis). 
Study characteristics 
We identified 26 randomised clinical trials with a total of 3842 participants. Of these, 23 randomised clinical trials (3693 participants) provided information for one or more outcomes. The trials mainly included participants undergoing liver transplantation for the first time, for various reasons. 
