Cot‐nursing versus incubator care for preterm infants
Prematurely born infants are usually nursed in incubators to provide the warmest environment possible. Using cots instead of incubators, allows mothers to have easier access to their babies. However, additional warmth is needed to maintain their body temperature, such as extra clothing, bedding and a heated room. This updated review randomly assigned 247 preterm infants (in five trials), to an intervention of cot‐nursing using a heated water‐filled mattress. The control babies received routine care in an air heated incubator. One trial had three‐arms, including cot‐nursing in a room heated with a manually controlled space heater. In the included trials infants in the incubator groups were nursed naked apart from wearing a nappy, except in one trial in which the infants also wore a cotton jacket and booties. Three comparisons were undertaken: the overall comparison of cot‐nursing versus incubator care, and two subgroup comparisons: cot‐nursing with heated water‐filled mattress versus incubator care, and cot‐nursing using warming of the nursery versus incubator care. The results of the review showed no evidence of effect of cot‐nursing versus incubator care on weight gain in the overall analysis, or in the subgroup analysis comparing cot‐nursing using a heated water‐filled mattress with incubator care. However, cot‐nursing with warming of the nursery during week one when compared to incubator care revealed poorer weight gain. The primary outcomes related to temperature control (mean body temperature and episodes of cold stress) indicated on overall analysis no effect of cot‐nursing compared to incubator care. Episodes of hyperthermia in the cot‐nursing group were reported more frequently in one trial. The secondary outcomes of oxygen consumption, breast feeding at hospital discharge, episodes of nosocomial sepsis, maternal perceptions of infant's condition, maternal stress and anxiety and death prior to hospital discharge revealed there was no effect of cot‐nursing compared to incubator care. There was, however, a strong trend towards less death prior to hospital discharge. This was largely related to the results were obtained from the trials undertaken in Turkey and Ethiopia and thus may not be applicable to neonatal nurseries in developed countries. Nevertheless the implications of these findings deserve consideration, particularly in the context of a developing country. 
