Appetite stimulants for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We looked for evidence on both beneficial and adverse effects of using appetite stimulants in people with anorexia linked to cystic fibrosis. 
Background 
Loss of appetite in people with cystic fibrosis concerns both the patients themselves and their families. Appetite stimulants have been used to help people with cystic fibrosis, who have a poor appetite, to increase the amounts they eat so they gain weight and improve overall health. However, there are concerns that appetite stimulants have the potential to cause side effects. 
Search date 
We last looked for evidence on 8th April 2014.
Study characteristics 
We included three trials, with a total of 47 patients, one of these was in young children and there were both children and adults in other two. These trials looked at the effects of drugs (megesterol acetate and cyproheptadine hydrochloride) compared to a placebo (a tablet that contained no medicine) to stimulate appetite. The trials lasted between three and six months. 
Key results 
We found that, in the short term (up to six months), these drugs may improve weight and appetite. There was no effect seen on lung function. All stimulants may have adverse effects which can worsen cystic fibrosis, such as the effects on blood sugar control, fatigue, mood, fluid retention, the liver and shortness of breath, but unfortunately accurate evidence for how often these symptoms occurred was not always reported in the same way. The trials we found were too small to show if megesterol acetate and cyproheptadine hydrochloride can improve weigh and appetite safely. 
While there is evidence to suggest that appetite stimulants can improve weight and poor appetite in adults and children with cystic fibrosis, we believe more research is needed to identify appropriate ways of measuring appetite and then to collect sound data from enough patients to find out if appetite stimulants can improve appetite safely in cystic fibrosis. 
Quality of the evidence 
We are happy that in two of the three trials, volunteers had equal chances of receiving appetite stimulants or placebo, but we are not sure if this is true for the third trial. It was not clear to us whether volunteers or their clinicians would be able to work out which group they were going to be put into. We believe that none of the volunteers or their clinicians could tell if they were receiving appetite stimulants or a placebo. Volunteers withdrew from two studies and we have some concerns about the reasons for this. We also have some concerns that some of the outcomes that the trial was going to measure were not reported in the published results. 
