What are the benefits and risks of different types of beds, mattresses and mattress toppers for treating pressure ulcers? 
Key messages 
Due to a lack of robust evidence, the benefits and risks of most types of beds, mattresses and mattress toppers for treating pressure ulcers are unclear. 
Beds with an air‐filled surface that apply constant pressure to the skin may be better than mattresses and toppers made of foam for ulcer healing if the evidence on the time needed to completely heal an ulcer is looked at, but may cost more. 
Future research in this area should focus on options and effects that are important to decision‐makers, such as: 
‐ foam or air‐filled surfaces that redistribute pressure under the body; and
‐ unwanted effects and costs.
What are pressure ulcers? 
Pressure ulcers are also known as pressure sores or bed sores. They are wounds to the skin and underlying tissue caused by prolonged pressure or rubbing. They often occur on bony parts of the body, such as heels, elbows, hips and the bottom of the spine. People who have mobility problems or who lie in bed for long periods are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
What did we want to find out? 
There are beds, mattresses and mattress toppers specifically designed for people with pressure ulcers. These can be made from a range of materials (such as foam, air cells or water bags) and are divided into two groups: 
‐ reactive (static) surfaces that apply a constant pressure to the skin, unless a person moves or is repositioned; and 
‐ active (alternating pressure) surfaces that regularly redistribute the pressure under the body. 
We wanted to find out if reactive and active surfaces:
‐ help ulcers to heal;
‐ are comfortable and improve people’s quality of life;
‐ have health benefits that outweigh their costs; and
‐ have any unwanted effects.
What did we do? 
We searched the medical literature for studies that evaluated the effects of beds, mattresses and mattress toppers. We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 13 studies (972 people, average age: 83 years) that lasted between seven days and 18 months (average: 37.5 days). 
In general, the studies did not provide sufficiently robust evidence for us to determine the effects of active and reactive surfaces. 
Evidence from two studies suggests that, when compared with mattresses and mattress toppers made of foam, beds with a reactive air‐filled surface may: 
‐ improve chances of pressure ulcers healing if the data on the time needed to completely heal an ulcer is looked at (1 study, 84 people); 
