Psychosocial interventions for supporting women to stop smoking in pregnancy
What is the issue? 
Tobacco smoking during pregnancy increases the risk of the mother having complications during pregnancy and the baby being born low birthweight. Nicotine and other contents of cigarettes can have harmful effects on the baby’s growth and development. 
Why is this important? 
The number of women smoking in pregnancy is decreasing in high‐income countries, where it is associated with poverty, but is increasing in low‐ to middle‐income countries. Non‐pharmacological interventions that address mental, emotional or social factors are known as psychosocial interventions. We set out to identify the evidence on the effectiveness of the various psychosocial interventions to support pregnant women to stop smoking. 
What evidence did we find? 
The review includes 102 randomised controlled trials with 120 intervention arms (studies) and data from 88 randomised controlled trials (involving over 28,000 women). The main intervention strategies were categorised as counselling (n = 54), health education (n = 12), feedback (n = 6), incentives (n = 13), social support (n = 7) and exercise (n = 1). 
Our review provided moderate‐ to‐high quality evidence that psychosocial interventions increased the proportion of women who had stopped smoking in late pregnancy (by 35%) and mean infant birthweight (by 56 g), and reduced the number of babies born with low birthweight (by 17%) and admitted to neonatal intensive care immediately after birth (by 22%). The psychosocial interventions did not appear to have any adverse effects. For some findings there were unexplained differences between studies and some studies were small, reducing our confidence in their results. Nearly all studies were conducted in high‐income countries. 
Counselling interventions had a clear effect on stopping smoking compared with providing usual care (from 30 studies), and a smaller effect when compared with less intensive interventions (18 studies). No clear effect was seen with counselling provided as one component of a broader intervention to improve maternal health or comparing one type of counselling with another. Interventions that provided feedback had a clear effect when compared with usual care and when combined with other strategies such as counselling (two studies), but not when compared with less intensive interventions (three studies). Interventions based on financial incentives had a clear effect when compared with an alternative like a non‐contingent incentive intervention (four studies). 
Health education was not clearly effective when compared with usual care (five studies), or when it was one component of a broader maternal health intervention. Social support interventions were not clearly effective when provided by peers (six studies) or in a single trial of support provided by partners; or when social support for smoking cessation was provided as part of a broader intervention to improve maternal health. In single studies, exercise and dissemination of counselling did not have a clear effect compared to usual care. 
