Is the blood pressure lowering effect of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers consistent or variable throughout 24 hours? 
Background 
High blood pressure, also known as hypertension, is a risk factor for adverse cardiovascular events such as stroke and heart attack. Blood pressure varies widely in an individual but certain patterns in its rise and fall have been identified in the general population; blood pressure increases in the early morning hours and decreases during the night. There is a variety of treatment options available for treating high blood pressure. Dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers are a group of drugs used to lower blood pressure. 
Study characteristics 
This review explores whether the blood pressure lowering effect of dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers in adults (aged 18 years or over) with high blood pressure (systolic blood pressure (the upper blood pressure reading) of at least 140 mmHg or diastolic blood pressure (the lower blood pressure reading) of at least 90 mmHg, or both of these) is consistent or variable over a 24‐hour period. We performed a review of studies that compared the 24‐hour blood pressure lowering effects of six of these drugs versus a control treatment for at least three weeks. Blood pressure needed to be measured by an ambulatory blood pressure monitor, which is a device that automatically measures blood pressure at regular intervals. We performed searches for clinical trials up to February 2014. 
Key results 
We found 16 trials involving 2768 participants that studied five drugs given once a day (amlodipine, lercanidipine, mandipine, nifedipine, and felodipine) and one drug given twice a day (nicardipine). The amount of blood pressure lowering by dihydropyridine calcium channel blockers stayed relatively the same at every hour throughout a 24‐hour day. The average hourly differences in blood pressure were between 9.45 mmHg and 13.2 mmHg for systolic blood pressure and between 5.85 mmHg and 8.5 mmHg for diastolic blood pressure. At the present time, the benefits and harms of this pattern of blood pressure lowering are unknown. 
