Motor imagery for gait rehabilitation
Review question 
Is motor imagery (MI) an effective approach to improve gait (walking ability) in people following stroke? 
Background 
Post‐stroke gait disability affects independence, mobility, activities of daily living, and participation in community activities. MI is a type of therapy that uses the imagination of movement (without actually moving). It has been recommended in the rehabilitation of people with stroke to promote movement relearning. 
Study characteristics 
Our most recent search date was 24 February 2020. We included 21 studies, with 762 participants (60% men and 40% women), and a mean age ranging from 50 to 78 years. The participants included in the studies were at different time points after stroke, and the etiology (causes of stroke) was also varied. All participants were able to walk with some difficulty. All included studies compared MI training with another intervention, and physical practice was the most applied therapy in the comparison (control) groups. In the experimental groups, most of the included studies used MI combined with physical practice, and used either kinesthetic (when someone imagines himself or herself) or visual (when the individual observes another person) MI. The treatment time for the experimental groups ranged from two to eight weeks. In general, only three of the included studies conducted a follow‐up assessment after interventions. 
Key results 
We found very low‐certainty evidence that MI alone or combined with either action observation (a type of imagery in which patients observe movement) or physical practice was superior to other therapies in improving walking speed in a short‐term period. However, there is very low‐certainty evidence that MI was no more beneficial than other therapies for improving motor function and functional mobility at the end of the treatment. There was insufficient evidence to evaluate the effect of MI on independence to perform activities of daily living and walking endurance after stroke, and to evaluate the medium‐ or long‐term effects of MI on all assessed outcomes. Although poorly reported, no adverse events related to MI and other therapies were observed. It is unknown whether the gait of people who have had a stroke could benefit from MI training compared to placebo or no intervention. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We classified the certainty of the evidence as very low because many studies had methodological concerns and low numbers of participants, and did not follow guidelines for how studies should be reported. 
