Minimally invasive (keyhole) surgery versus radiotherapy alone or radiotherapy and chemotherapy for early‐stage throat cancer 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence to compare two treatments for throat cancer. The treatments were keyhole surgery and radiotherapy alone or combined with chemotherapy. 
Background 
More than 400,000 cases of cancer of the middle part of the throat (oropharynx) are diagnosed each year worldwide and this number is rising, with human papillomavirus (HPV) being a significant contributing factor. Throat cancer caused by this virus affects younger patients and they often present with more advanced disease. However, it is associated with a better prognosis. 
Until recently the first‐line management of this type of throat cancer involved radiotherapy combined with chemotherapy, as research had demonstrated similar survival rates when compared with surgery but with significantly fewer side effects. However, treatments have now evolved with computerised planning and improvements in radiotherapy, and the advent of keyhole head and neck surgery, which have the potential for fewer side effects from treatment. 
The oropharynx plays an essential role in swallowing, speech and protecting the airway as it is situated at the junction of the respiratory and digestive tracts. The choice of which treatment to use is based on which is associated with the best survival. As younger patients are being affected, establishing the safety of treatments with potentially fewer side effects and less disability is becoming increasingly important. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to November 2016.
Study characteristics 
We found no completed studies that compared keyhole surgery and radiotherapy alone or combined with chemotherapy. Two ongoing trials did fulfil our selection criteria, however neither are yet complete. One has an estimated completion date of June 2021 and the other planned to start recruiting patients mid‐2016. 
Key results 
There are not yet any completed studies to include in the review so there are no results.
Quality of the evidence and conclusions 
The role of keyhole surgery in the management of throat cancer is expanding as is demonstrated by its incorporation into the current national guidelines in the USA. Evidence is mounting regarding its outcomes both in terms of survival and fewer side effects. 
