Hydroxyurea (also known as hydroxycarbamide) for people with sickle cell disease
Review question 
What is the effect of hydroxyurea on clinical outcomes (changes in pain crises, life‐threatening illnesses, survival, haemoglobin levels, quality of life and side effects) in people with sickle cell disease (SCD) of any genotype? 
Background 
Sickle cell disease (SCD) is an inherited genetic disorder that creates problems with haemoglobin (the substance in red blood cells that carries oxygen around the body). The disease can be inherited in different ways; people can inherit two sickle genes (HbSS genotype) or they can inherit the sickle gene from one parent and a different haemoglobin gene such as haemoglobin C, resulting in the HbSC genotype, or a beta thalassaemia gene from the second parent, which gives rise to HbSβ+ or HbSβºthal.  
In people with SCD the abnormal sickle haemoglobin forms long polymers (chains) within the red blood cells when they become de‐oxygenated. This damages the red blood cells and makes them stickier, leading to blockages and reduced blood flow, causing pain and organ damage. Foetal haemoglobin (HbF) stops these polymers forming in the sickle haemoglobin within the red blood cell. The drug hydroxyurea is used to increase HbF and can reduce the effects of the disease. 
This is an update of a previously published Cochrane Review.
Search date 
The evidence is current to 17 February 2022.
Study characteristics 
We included nine randomised studies (1104 adults and children with SCD (HbSS, HbSC or HbSβºthal genotypes)). Studies lasted from six to 30 months. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
In five studies, 784 adults and children with SCD were randomly selected to receive hydroxyurea or placebo. In two studies, 254 children with SCD, who were also at an increased risk of having a first or second stroke, were randomly selected to receive hydroxyurea and phlebotomy (collection of blood) or blood transfusion and chelation (administration of agents to remove excess iron from the body). These seven studies only recruited people with HbSS or HbSβºthal genotypes so the results do not apply to people with the HbSC genotype. 
