Treatment of unintentional drooling of saliva in motor neuron disease
Review question 
To assess the effects of treatments for drooling of saliva in motor neuron disease (MND), which is also known as amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). 
Background 
Unintentional drooling of saliva (sialorrhea) is a distressing symptom suffered by many people with MND because of difficulty swallowing. The management of sialorrhea currently involves the use of suction, drug treatments and more invasive approaches, including injection of botulinum toxin to the salivary (parotid and submandibular) glands, radiotherapy to the salivary glands, and surgery to tie off the salivary gland ducts. This is an update of a review first published in 2011. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane review authors identified four trials that could be included in the review.
In the first, 20 people with MND received a single injection of botulinum toxin or placebo (dummy treatment) into the salivary glands on each side of the head. 
Another study compared botulinum toxin and radiotherapy and was not blinded (which means that neither the participants nor the staff knew whether active or placebo treatment had been administered). Since the outcomes all involved patient opinions, there is some uncertainty about the results. Furthermore, the investigators tested five doses of botulinum and three doses of radiotherapy in a group of 20 people, making it difficult to interpret results. 
A third trial was a cross‐over study of DMQ, a combination of dextromethorphan hydrobromide and quinidine sulfate. The 60 people with MND who took part were randomly allocated into two groups; one group received DMQ for about a month, had a drug washout (drug‐free period) for about two weeks and then received placebo for about a month; the second group started with placebo for a month, before being switched to DMQ after the washout period.  
The fourth study administered scopolamine (hyoscine) patches or placebo patches to 10 people with severe MND. A cross‐over design was used, with two treatment periods of seven days and a washout period for seven days in between. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Data from the first study suggested that botulinum toxin injection may produce an improvement in participant‐reported salivation compared to placebo, based on evidence in 20 people, but the results also allow for no effect. The study appeared to be well designed and well conducted, but it proved difficult to maintain blinding, which leads to uncertainty about measures that rely on a participant's opinion. Objective tests like measuring saliva volumes are arduous for both patients and staff, but they can provide very useful data; this study provided evidence that botulinum toxin probably reduces the average volume of saliva at week eight after injection. Botulinum toxin may have no more side effects than placebo injection and may have little effect on quality of life. 
The DMQ trial reported improvements in scores for saliva, speech and swallowing from a 21‐item patient‐reported outcome measure and improvement in speech but not saliva or swallowing from other patient‐reported outcome measures. It is difficult to say whether the differences were enough to be important in practice. Clinicians were more likely to rate participants as having improved bulbar function (comprising saliva, speech and swallowing) if they were in the DMQ treatment phase as opposed to the placebo treatment phase. The side effects were as expected for DMQ; the most frequent were constipation, diarrhea, nausea, and dizziness; side effects may be no more common with DMQ than with placebo. The study did not measure quality of life or objective measures of swallowing. The study appeared to be well conducted but success regarding blinding is unknown. 
