Ibuprofen‐like painkillers given before cutting the skin in surgery compared with given after cutting the skin in adults undergoing all types of surgery 
We aimed to assess the effect of a single dose of a nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID: for example, ibuprofen) given before making the first cut during surgery (pre‐emptive NSAIDs) or given before the first cut and continued after surgery (preventive NSAIDs) on reducing pain in adults. 
Review questionWe reviewed the evidence for NSAID painkillers when given before surgery compared to the same painkiller given only after the surgeon has cut the skin in adults undergoing all types of surgery. 
BackgroundMost people experience pain after surgery that requires strong opioid (similar to morphine) painkillers. These medications are associated with a number of side effects including reduced breathing, a slow heart rate, and low blood pressure, as well as vomiting, sleepiness, itching, and constipation. Reducing the amount of opioids needed after surgery can limit these side effects and improve the patient experience and outcomes. Compared to starting painkillers later, beginning painkillers before making the first cut for surgery may reduce pain sensitivity, and thus lessen the pain experienced. We wanted to find out whether giving NSAID painkillers before surgery was more effective than giving the same painkiller, at the same dose, after surgery. 
Study characteristicsWe searched the medical literature for randomized controlled trials (a type of study in which participants are assigned to a treatmentgroup using a random method). The evidence is current to June 2020. Patients were randomly allocated to one of two groups. One group was treated with NSAIDs before the surgeon cut the skin, whilst the other group was given the same medication after the surgeon cut the skin. We found 71 trials with patients aged 18 years or over who were undergoing many different operations. Nearly all patients were fit and healthy undergoing procedures in hospitals around the world. 
