Continuous subcutaneous insulin infusion versus multiple daily injections of insulin for pregnant women with diabetes 
What is the issue? 
Diabetes is a condition in which glucose (sugar) in the blood is too high because the body does not respond to insulin or not enough insulin is made. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas, which allows glucose to enter the cells where it is used as fuel by the body. 
Controlling blood sugar levels is important because levels that are too high or too low can affect the brain and other organs of the body. Poor blood sugar control in pregnant women with diabetes can lead to large babies who may then have a difficult birth. It also increases the chance of abnormalities in the baby, miscarriage, or stillbirth. 
Traditionally, insulin is given as multiple daily injections (MDI), however a small pump can continuously give insulin through a fine tube under the skin (CSII). 
Why is this important? 
An insulin pump may help pregnant women keep their blood glucose more stable than multiple injections. It might stop the woman's blood sugar level going too high or too low, which would be better for the mother and her baby and it may be more acceptable to women. This review compared the positive and negative effects of CSII and MDI to work out which is best for mothers and infants. 
What evidence did we find? 
Five randomised trials involving 153 women (154 pregnancies) were included.
These trials did not report many of the outcomes we had hoped to look at. The evidence was judged to be very low quality for important outcomes (caesarean section, large‐for‐gestational age, perinatal mortality, and neonatal hypoglycaemia). This was because the trials were small, may not have been fair tests, and did not show a clear difference between MDI and CSII. 
There were no clear differences in any of the reported outcomes between women who had insulin via a pump rather than as multiple injections. For mothers, this included caesarean section, weight gain during pregnancy, and blood sugar levels. For babies, this included the baby's weight, if they were born premature, and problems such as difficulty breathing, a low Apgar score at birth, low blood sugar, jaundice, or physical abnormalities. 
In one small trial, there was no difference in the number of days mothers spent in hospital. This was the only measure of cost or use of health service resources reported. 
What does this mean? 
The trials did not provide enough information to know whether an insulin pump or multiple injections are better for a pregnant woman with diabetes or her baby. More research is needed, with bigger groups of women, good reporting of how the trials were undertaken, more outcomes assessed and reported, and using the latest pump technology and insulins. 
