Lifestyle modifications for people with nonalcohol‐related fatty liver disease
What is the aim of this Cochrane Review?To find out if any lifestyle modifications decrease the effect of nonalcohol‐related fatty liver disease on lifespan, health‐related quality of life, chronic liver disease and its complications, and whether they cause any harms. 
Nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is an accumulation of fat in the liver in people who have no history of significant alcohol consumption, use of medicines, diseases such as hepatitis C virus infection, or other conditions such as starvation that can damage the liver. Fatty liver can lead to liver damage resulting in inflammation (nonalcohol‐related steatohepatitis (NASH)) or liver scarring (liver cirrhosis). Various medical treatments have been tried for the treatment of NAFLD. However, there is currently no evidence that any of them work. Lifestyle modifications have the potential to decrease the liver damage, but whether they achieve this is currently unclear. The authors of this review collected and analysed all relevant randomised clinical trials with the aim of finding out what is the best treatment. 
We found 59 randomised clinical trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups). During analysis of data, the review authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. We also planned to use advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments at the same time, usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'. 
Date of literature searchFebruary 2021. 
What we studied in the review?This review looked at people of any sex, age (including children), and ethnic origin, with NAFLD. We excluded studies in people who had previously had liver transplantation. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 13 years to 65 years. Participants were given different treatments, ranging from advice to supervised exercise and special diets, or a combination of these and no intervention, in addition to the public health advice. We wanted to gather and analyse data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, severe liver damage, complications resulting from severe liver damage, liver cancer, and deaths due to liver damage ('clinical outcomes'). 
