Treatment of hepatorenal syndrome
What is the aim of this Cochrane review? 
To find out the best treatment for decreased kidney function (hepatorenal syndrome) in people with liver cirrhosis (a form of advanced liver disease with scarring of the liver) with complications. The authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 25 randomised controlled trials (participants receive the treatment based on method similar to coin toss or lottery; this is to ensure that the people who receive the different treatments are similar in all aspects except the treatment, so that any differences in the results between the treatments can be attributed to the treatment rather than differences in the type of people who received the treatment). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane techniques, which allows comparison of two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques, that allow comparison of many treatments at the same time (usually referred as 'network meta‐analysis' or 'multiple treatment comparisons'). The aim is to gather reliable evidence on the relative benefits and harms of the different treatments. 
Date of literature search December 2018 
Key messages Only two studies were conducted well. The remaining studies had one or more flaws. Therefore, there is high uncertainty in the results of the analysis. The authors could not recommend one treatment over another on the basis of risk of death, serious complications, percentage of people who developed any complication, percentage of participants who underwent liver transplantation (replacement of a diseased liver with a healthy one), or the number of other liver failure events. Health‐related quality of life was not reported in any of the trials. The number of complications of any severity was lower with albumin plus noradrenaline than albumin plus terlipressin. Recovery from hepatorenal syndrome may be lower with albumin plus midodrine plus octreotide and albumin alone than albumin plus terlipressin and albumin plus noradrenaline. 
Funding source was unclear in 18 studies. Industrial organisations funded two studies and the remaining five studies did not receive any funding from industrial organisations. 
What was studied in the review? 
This review studied people of any sex, age, and origin, having advanced liver disease due to various causes, and who had developed hepatorenal syndrome. People were administered different treatments. The review authors excluded studies with liver‐transplanted participants. Participants age, when reported, ranged from 42 to 60 years. The number of females ranged from 6 to 62 out of 100 in the studies that reported this information. The main treatments compared were albumin alone, albumin plus terlipressin, and albumin plus noradrenaline. The authors gathered and analysed data on death, quality of life, serious and non‐serious complications, time to liver transplantation, recovery from hepatorenal syndrome, and disappearance of symptoms. 
What were the main results of the review? 
The 25 studies included a small number of participants (1263 participants). Study data were sparse. Twenty‐three studies with 1185 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up in the trials ranged from one week to six months. The review shows that: 
‐ About 60 out of every 100 people died within three months, and 35 out of every 100 people recovered from hepatorenal syndrome. 
‐ The provided treatment may make no difference to the percentage of people who died or developed serious complications, number of serious complications per person, percentage of people who developed complications of any severity, or the percentage of people undergoing liver transplantation. 
‐ None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life.
‐ The number of complications of any severity was lower with albumin plus noradrenaline than albumin plus terlipressin. 
‐ Recovery from hepatorenal syndrome may be lower with albumin plus midodrine plus octreotide and albumin alone than albumin plus terlipressin and albumin plus noradrenaline. 
‐ We have very low confidence in the overall results.
‐ Future trials with proper design and quality are needed to clarify the best treatment for people with advanced liver disease having hepatorenal syndrome. 
