Stroke is a life‐threatening event in which part of the brain stops functioning properly, because it either does not receive blood and oxygen or it is damaged by bleeding from a ruptured blood vessel. Interventions to reduce temperature may protect brain tissue from damage during stroke. Previous studies have shown that patients with a lower body temperature at the time of stroke have a better outcome than those with a higher body temperature. To reduce death or disability, temperature‐lowering therapy is used in open‐heart surgery, after cardiac arrest and in babies who may have suffered from a lack of oxygen at birth. By contrast, the therapeutic effect of temperature‐lowering therapy in patients with traumatic brain injury is less promising. Besides its potential beneficial effects, temperature‐lowering therapy may have adverse effects including chest infection, venous thrombosis or cardiac arrhythmias. This review aimed to assess the potential benefits and risks of temperature‐lowering therapy in patients with acute stroke. All studies that compared the use of physical or pharmacological temperature‐lowering therapies on acute stroke with usual medical management in acute stroke patients were considered. Physical temperature‐lowering techniques included cooling blankets, cooling fluids, cooling helmets and other devices. Pharmacological temperature‐lowering interventions included drugs used to reduce temperature. The results of the five included pharmacological and three physical temperature reduction trials, involving 423 participants with acute stroke, do not indicate a clinical benefit or harm. Both interventions were associated with a slight increase in the occurrence of infections, but this was not statistically significant. A clinically significant effect of temperature‐lowering therapy on outcome after stroke was not demonstrated, but cannot be ruled out. Large clinical trials are therefore needed to assess the effect of temperature‐lowering therapies in acute stroke. 