Chelation therapy for atherosclerotic cardiovascular (heart and circulation) disease
Background 
Atherosclerosis is caused by fatty deposits that cause a narrowing of people's arteries and restrict blood flow. People with blocked arteries are more likely to have strokes, heart attacks, and narrow blood vessels in their feet. Chelation therapy involves infusions into the bloodstream of substances believed to remove metals from the blood. This treatment is offered to people with atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease as a way of breaking down the blockages in their blood vessels. Chelation therapy is practiced in several places around the world as an alternative form of medicine, but there is currently a lack of knowledge surrounding this treatment. More information is needed to understand if this treatment should be more widely recommended. 
Key results 
This review included evidence from five studies with a total of 1993 participants (current until August 2019). Three studies enrolled participants with peripheral vascular disease, and two of the studies included participants with coronary artery disease, one of which specifically recruited people who had had a heart attack. All five studies compared chelation therapy with no treatment or placebo. Only two of the studies (both of which included participants with coronary artery disease) reported death from any cause, and these reported no difference in overall deaths between those that received chelation therapy and those who did not. Ony one study (in people with coronary artery disease) reported cardiovascular death, and this study found no difference between in risk between those who had chelation therapy and those who did not. Two studies of people with coronary artery disease reported rates of heart attack and angina, and found no difference in the risk of these between participants who had chelation treatment and those who did not. Similarly, two studies (one in people with coronary artery disease and one in people with peripheral vascular disease) reported the chance of having a stroke, and found no clear difference in the chance of this between people who did or did not received chelation treatment. Two studies in people with peripheral vascular disease used an indirect measure of blood flow known as the ankle‐brachial pressure index (ABPI), or ankle brachial index. These studies did not show any differences in this measure between people who received chelation therapy for three or six months and those who did not get the treatment. There was also no clear differences in the distance participants could walk. 
We could not combine specific measures of quality of life in a single analysis. Looking at the two studies in people with coronary artery disease that reported this outcome, there was no difference in the quality of life reported by people who received chelation therapy and those who did not get the treatment. Two studies reported information about adverse events, but we could not combine this in a single analysis because they reported them in different ways and the events were different. However, the people who had chelation therapy did not appear to have any increase in either minor or major adverse events, compared with people who did not have the therapy. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We considered most of the data we found to be of low certainty, mostly because there were very few studies that provided data. Even though we included five studies, not all of them reported on each outcome. There is currently not enough evidence about the effects of chelation therapy on blockages in the blood vessels of people with atherosclerotic cardiovascular (heart and circulation) disease. 
