Surgical interventions for treating distal tibial fractures (breaks of the lower end of the shin bone) in adults 
Background 
Breaks in the lower (distal) end of the shin bone (or tibia) are mostly caused by high‐energy trauma, such as motor vehicle accidents. We set out to compare surgical treatment (such as putting the broken parts back into position and fixing these either by inserting a metal nail into the central cavity of the bone (nailing) or with a metal plate and securing it to the bone using screws (plating)) with non‐surgical treatment (plaster cast immobilisation). We also set out to compare different methods of surgery such as nailing versus plating. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases and trials registries in December 2014. We wanted to include studies in which receiving one surgical treatment or another surgical treatment was decided by chance. This research method, termed a randomised controlled trial (RCT), is the best way to ensure that any measured improvement is caused by the treatment itself and no other factors. We found three RCTs involving 213 adults (with results available from 173) that compared nailing versus plating for treating distal tibial fractures. Overall the studies included around twice as many males as females and the average age of the study participants was just over 40 years. We found no trials comparing surgery with non‐surgical treatment. 
Key results 
We found no clear differences between the nailing and plating groups in terms of patient‐reported functional outcomes, re‐operations for adverse outcomes, troublesome non‐healing of the bone or deformity, pain, wound problems such as infection, or the numbers of individuals with healed fractures. 
Quality of the evidence 
Only three trials were identified and the sample sizes were small, so the results are imprecise. Moreover, the results of one trial were very likely to be biased due to flawed methodology. We therefore judged the overall quality of evidence to be very low, which means that we are very unsure of these results. 
Conclusions 
Overall, the evidence is of very low quality and is insufficient to draw definite conclusions about the best method of surgery, including nailing versus plating, for treating breaks of the lower end of the shin bone in adults. Future updates of this review are likely to include evidence from currently ongoing research comparing nailing versus plating. Although other RCTs are needed to address key clinical questions on surgical methods for treating these fractures, these studies should be preceded by research to determine which questions should be prioritised. 
