Intensive case management for people with severe mental illness
Background 
Severe mental illnesses are defined by diagnosis, degree of disability and the presence of some abnormal behaviour. Including schizophrenia and psychosis, severe mood problems, and personality disorder, severe mental illness can cause considerable distress over a long period of time to both the person affected and his or her family and friends.  
Until the 1970s, it was common for those suffering from these disorders to remain in an institution for most of their lives, but in most of the countries of the world, they are now managed in the community with one of several different types of intervention. Intensive Case Management (ICM) is one such intervention. It consists of management of the mental health problem and the rehabilitation and social support needs of the person concerned, over an indefinite period of time, by a team of people who have a fairly small group of clients (fewer than 20). Twenty‐four‐hour help is offered and clients are seen in a non‐clinical setting.  Aims of the review 
To find and present good‐quality evidence concerning the effectiveness of ICM compared with non‐ICM (where people receive the same package of care, but the professionals have caseloads of more than 20 people) and standard care (where people are seen as outpatients, but their support needs are less clearly defined) for people with severe mental illness.  
Searching for evidence 
We carried out electronic searches for randomised controlled trials comparing ICM with non‐ICM or standard care in 2009, 2012, and 2015. 
Results 
We included 40 trials involving 7524 people. The trials took place in Australia, Canada, China, Europe, and the USA. When ICM was compared to standard care, those in the ICM group were more likely to stay with the service, have improved general functioning, get a job, not be homeless, and have shorter stays in hospital (especially when they had had very long stays in hospital previously). When ICM was compared to non‐ICM, the only clear difference was that those in the ICM group were more likely to be kept in care.  
