Further trials are necessary to find the optimal method of vascular occlusion in liver resection 
More than 1000 elective liver resections (planned operation) are performed annually in the United Kingdom alone. When liver resection is performed, the inflow of blood to the liver can be blocked (vascular occlusion), thereby potentially reducing the blood loss. When employed during liver resection, the vascular occlusion is generally achieved by occluding the hepatic artery and portal vein (blood vessels which supply the blood to the liver) either continuously or intermittently (when varying periods of occlusion and no occlusion are carried out in cycles till liver resection is complete). This is called portal triad clamping. However, there are many variations to this technique. These include hepatic vascular exclusion, where in addition to the occlusion of hepatic artery and portal vein, the veins draining blood from the liver are occluded with an intention of further decreasing the blood loss; selective inflow occlusion when only the vessels supplying the portion of the liver to be resected is occluded; and ischaemic preconditioning, where in order to prepare the liver for lack of blood flow, a vascular occlusion is performed briefly, after which the blood flow is re‐established (reperfusion). This review is aimed at evaluating the different methods of vascular occlusion in liver resection. 
Ten trials including 657 patients were included in this review. All were of high risk of bias (systematic error) and play of chance (random error). Only one or two trials were included under each comparison. There was no difference in mortality, liver failure, or post‐operative complications between any of the comparisons. Hepatic vascular occlusion does not decrease the blood transfusion requirements. It decreases the cardiac output (amount of blood pumped by the heart in one second) and increases the systemic vascular resistance (resistance to the flow of blood in the vessels), which may have potential problems in patients with heart disorders. 
Although there was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of liver failure between continuous portal triad clamping and intermittent portal triad clamping (5/60; 8.5% versus 0/61), most of them occurred in patients with chronic liver diseases undergoing the liver resections using continuous portal triad clamping. 
There was no benefit in selective inflow occlusion compared to portal triad clamping. There was no statistically significant difference in the incidence of liver failure between the two groups (4/41; 9.8% versus 0/39), but all patients with liver failure occurred in the selective inflow occlusion group. 
