Treatments for preventing venous thromboembolism in adults who have keyhole surgery of the knee 
Key message 
• We did not find clear evidence that the use of clot‐preventing medications (low‐molecular‐weight heparin (LMWH), aspirin or rivaroxaban) in healthy adults who undergo minimally invasive knee surgery can reduce the small risk of blood clots developing in their deep veins, or the small risk that these blood clots travel to a blood vessel in their lungs. 
• We did not find any clear evidence that LMWH, aspirin or rivaroxaban cause harmful effects such as bleeding in these people. 
Why is this question important? 
In knee arthroscopy, a healthcare provider inserts a tiny camera through a small cut in the person's knee. Knee arthroscopy is used to diagnose and repair many types of knee injuries. People who undergo this procedure have a small risk of developing a blood clot in the deep veins of their legs (deep vein thrombosis). Those who get deep vein thrombosis may have symptoms such as calf pain or swelling (symptomatic deep vein thrombosis). There is also a risk that the clots may move to the lungs (pulmonary embolism). People who have surgery often receive medications to lower the risk of clots developing. These medications help to prevent blood clots by thinning the blood, and they may cause side effects such as bleeding. Because the risk of getting a blood clot after knee arthroscopy is small, it is important to know if taking medication to prevent clots is necessary. 
What did we do? 
This systematic review included randomized controlled trials of people who had knee arthroscopy and who either did or did not receive clot‐preventing medication. Randomized studies provide the most reliable evidence about treatment effects because the treatment people receive is decided at random. 
What did we find? 
In the studies we included in our review, the control participants (those who did not receive medication) received no treatment in six studies, received a dummy pill (placebo) in one study, and wore compression stockings in one study. 
We combined information from five studies, and this showed that LMWH – a medicine that people inject into their abdominal area every day – does not clearly reduce the risk of pulmonary embolism or symptomatic deep vein thrombosis compared with no treatment. LMWH may reduce the risk of asymptomatic deep vein thrombosis (a clot in the leg without symptoms, usually detected by testing), but we are very uncertain about the results. LMWH had no clear effect on bleeding. 
In one study, oral rivaroxaban did not reduce the risk of deep vein thrombosis, and also did not increase minor bleeding when compared to placebo. The study reported no cases of pulmonary embolism or major bleeding. 
In one study that compared aspirin with no treatment, no participants had pulmonary embolism, deep vein thrombosis or bleeding. 
Compared to compression stockings, LMWH did not reduce pulmonary embolism or bleeding, but did reduce symptomatic deep vein thrombosis. 
How certain are we about the evidence? 
Our confidence in the evidence differs across treatments and results of treatment. We are not very confident about the evidence for pulmonary embolism and symptomatic deep vein thrombosis because the total number of cases (clots) was small. We are not confident in the evidence on asymptomatic clots because participants were aware of the treatments they had, and may have revealed this information – whether accidentally or on purpose – to the medical staff who were looking for the clots. In addition, asymptomatic clots may be less clinically important in people who are at low risk of clots or who quickly regain mobility after the knee arthroscopy. 
