Transcutaneous electrostimulation for osteoarthritis of the knee
This summary of a Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the effect of transcutaneous electrostimulation on osteoarthritis of the knee. 
The review shows that in people with osteoarthritis: 
‐ We are uncertain whether transcutaneous electrostimulation affects pain or your ability to use your knee because of the very low quality of the evidence.    ‐ Transcutaneous electrostimulation may not have any side effects. We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects.  
  
What is osteoarthritis and what is transcutaneous electrostimulation? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints, such as your knee. When the joint loses cartilage, the bone grows to try and repair the damage. Instead of making things better, however, the bone grows abnormally and makes things worse. For example, the bone can become misshapen and make the joint painful and unstable.  This can affect your physical function or ability to use your knee. 
Transcutaneous electrostimulation, such as TENS, is a kind of pain relief typically using electrical currents applied to the skin. Transcutaneous electrostimulation machines are typically small, battery‐operated machines with 2 electrodes attached.  Electrodes are wires that send the electrical current.  Usually, you connect two electrodes from the machine to your skin on the painful area. Your doctor or physiotherapist will show you how to use it, and most machines can be used at home. 
 
Best estimate of what happens to people with osteoarthritis who use transcutaneous electrostimulation up to 4 weeks after using it: 
Pain 
‐ People who used electrostimulation had an improvement in their pain of about 2 on a scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain) 4 weeks after using it. 
‐ People who used a fake electrostimulation machine or just took their usual treatments had an improvement in their pain of about 2 on a scale from 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain) 4 weeks after using it. 
‐ People had no more average improvement when using electrostimulation, and no more people responded to treatment with electrostimulation compared with people who used a fake electrostimulation machine or just took their usual treatments (difference of 0%). 
 
Physical Function 
‐ People who used electrostimulation had an improvement in their physical function of about 2 on a scale from 0 (no disability) to 10 (extreme disability) 4 weeks after using it. 
‐ People who used a fake electrostimulation machine or just took their usual treatments had an improvement in their physical function of about 1 on a scale from 0 (no disability) to 10 (extreme disability) 4 weeks after using it. 
‐ People using electrostimulation had 1 unit more improvement in their knee function when compared to people who used a fake electrostimulation machine or just took their usual treatments. 
