Positive pressure therapy for Ménière's disease or syndrome
Background 
Ménière's disease is a disorder of the inner ear, which results in vertigo, hearing loss and tinnitus. When it is secondary to another known inner ear disorder, it is called Ménière's syndrome. A number of different treatments have been used for patients with this disease, ranging from dietary measures (e.g. a low‐salt diet) and medication (e.g. betahistine or diuretics) to extensive surgery. However, Ménière's disease has a fluctuating natural course with remissions and exacerbations, which makes the evaluation of treatments difficult. 
Positive pressure therapy uses a device (such as the Meniett®) placed in the external ear to generate a sequence of low‐pressure (micro‐pressure) pulses. These pulses are thought to be transmitted to the vestibular system of the inner ear and to influence inner ear pressure. The device has been proposed as a second‐level therapy for Ménière's disease. In order to use the device a patient needs to have a tympanostomy tube (grommet) inserted through their eardrum. 
Study characteristics 
In this review, we included five randomised controlled trials, with a total of 265 participants. All participants had Ménière's disease and their ages ranged from 19 to 74 years. In all of the studies positive pressure therapy was compared with a placebo device. 
Key results 
For our primary outcome, control of vertigo, we could not combine the results from the different studies because of differences in the way the outcome was measured. None of the included studies showed significant differences between the active groups and placebo groups in terms of vertigo days. Only one study found significantly lower subjective scores for vertigo in favour of the positive pressure therapy group when compared to the placebo group. 
When we combined the results from two studies we found that after treatment patients in the placebo group had better hearing levels compared to those in the positive pressure therapy group. The severity of tinnitus and perception of aural fullness were either not measured or the included studies did not provide enough information for us to comment on them. We did not find an overall statistically significant result for functional level. We also looked at 'sick days' but we did not find a statistically significant difference between groups in the two studies that measured this. No complications or adverse effects were noted by any study. 
