The effectiveness and safety of treatments for recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis (thrush) 
Review question 
Cochrane authors set out to investigate the effectiveness and safety of drug treatments or non‐drug treatments (such as complementary and alternative medicines) for women with recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis (thrush). 
Background 
Thrush of the vaginal/vulvar area is caused by Candida, a form of yeast that is commonly found in the vagina as part of normal flora without causing symptoms. For unknown reasons, Candida can start growing and cause symptoms of vulvovaginal candidiasis (commonly named thrush). Symptoms of vulvovaginal thrush include itching, swelling, and irritation of the vaginal and vulval areas. It is estimated that uncomplicated vulvovaginal thrush affects up to 75% of women at some time during their reproductive years. Recurrent vulvovaginal candidiasis (RVVC) occurs when a woman has four or more fungal infections during a 12‐month period. Up to 5% of women suffer from RVVC. Some doctors advise taking antifungals as a prevention, but there are no clear evidence‐based guidelines. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 23 studies involving 2212 participants between 17 and 67 years old with a diagnosis of RVVC confirmed by a positive test. The studies compared a range of antifungal medicines (taken by mouth or inserted into the vagina), and some complementary or alternative treatments (such as Lactobacillus vaccines or probiotics and special underwear). The studies reported the effects on recurrence of thrush after 6 and 12 months. Only one study reported the number of clinical recurrences at 12 months. Nine studies reported industry funding, three were funded by an independent source and nine studies did not report their funding source. The evidence is current to October 2021. 
Key results 
Six studies (607 participants) compared antifungal medication with placebo or no treatment. Based on low certainty evidence antifungal treatments may give a clinically relevant reduction in clinical recurrence at 6 and 12 months. We are uncertain if oral treatments are better than topical treatments (very low certainty evidence for no difference). 
Adverse effects of taking antifungal medication to prevent recurrence of thrush were not common. Studies reported on adverse effects differently, making comparisons difficult. More research is needed to determine the optimal medication, dose and frequency. We were unable to determine the effects in women who are pregnant or have diabetes. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Our confidence in the evidence was low to very low due to serious concerns about risk of bias, unclear reporting and the limited number of studies that could be combined. This means that new studies might change our confidence in the effects of treatments and our conclusions. 
