Which are the best treatments for hip fractures in older adults?
Why is this question important? 
A hip fracture is a break at the top of the leg bone. We included people with a break just below the ball and socket joint. These types of broken hip are common in older adults whose bones may be fragile because of a condition called osteoporosis. They often happen after a fall from a standing or sitting position. The broken hip can be treated in different ways, and we don't know whether some treatments are better than others. 
What are the treatments? 
‐ Replacing the broken hip with an artificial one. This can be done using a hemiarthroplasty (HA), which replaces only the ball part of the joint, and can be unipolar (a single artificial joint) or bipolar which has an additional joint within the HA. A total hip arthroplasty (THA) replaces all of the hip joint, including the socket, and usually has just one artifical joint between the ball and the socket (single articulation) or sometimes two (dual‐mobility). All types of artificial joints can be fixed in place with or without bone cement. 
‐ Using metal implants to fix the broken parts of the bones. Pins or screws may be inserted through the two parts of broken bone, or the surgeon may use a 'fixed angle plate' which sits on the outer edge of the broken bone and is attached to the bone with screws or pins.  
‐ Treatment without an operation, usually requiring a period of rest in bed whilst the leg is held in position using traction with weights. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared one or more of these treatments. We wanted to find out the benefits and harms of these different treatments. We combined the findings from studies, and created a 'network' (which is used when researchers perform a 'network meta‐analysis' on the results from studies) to see if we could find out if some treatments were better than others. 
What did we find? 
We found 119 studies, involving 17,653 participants with 17,669 fractures. The average age of study participants ranged from 60 to 87 years; 73% were women, which is usual for people who have this type of hip fracture. We included 75 of these studies in our 'network'. 
We found that a modern design of unipolar HA fixed with bone cement, or some of the metal implants (fixed angle plates and pins), seem to have the greatest chance of reducing the number of deaths within 12 months of injury. Compared to people having these treatments, more people who were treated with an uncemented modern bipolar design of HA or with a THA (single articulation) died.  
We didn't find as many studies to include in our 'network' for health‐related quality of life, and none of the treatments made a meaningful improvement to people's quality of life.  
We also found that people treated with any of the hip replacements were less likely to need additional surgery on their broken hip than people treated with metal implants or treated without an operation. Amongst all the designs of hip replacements, fewer people needed additional surgery after treatment with a cemented modern unipolar design of HA ‐ but there was not a big difference in the findings for these hip replacement treatments. 
