Surgical removal of underarm lymph nodes in breast cancer
Review question 
This review aimed to compare the benefits of surgical removal of underarm lymph nodes with the potential harms associated with this surgical procedure. The review also aimed to learn whether complete removal of all underarm nodes could be replaced by procedures that remove only a small number of lymph nodes. 
Background 
Surgical removal of underarm (axillary) lymph nodes is often part of the initial surgical treatment for patients with operable breast cancer. If cancer has spread to these lymph nodes, patients are advised to undergo additional treatments, such as chemotherapy or radiotherapy, to help treat their disease. If cancer has not spread to these lymph nodes, patients are spared extra treatments (with extra side effects). Surgical removal of lymph nodes can lead to short‐term surgical complications (such as infection and wound healing problems) and long‐term problems (such as shoulder stiffness, pain and arm swelling (lymphoedema)) when fluid accumulation causes restricted function and discomfort. 
Modern strategies use a stepwise approach by first removing a small number of nodes and removing the others only if cancer is found at the first stage. This first stage can consist of ‘random’ axillary sampling, whereby the surgeon removes a small number of nodes (typically four) that can be felt. Alternatively, surgeons can use sentinel node techniques to identify those nodes most likely to contain cancer, leading to removal of as few nodes as possible. For patients with cancer in the sentinel nodes (or sample), complete removal of all underarm lymph nodes (axillary lymph node dissection) is usually recommended; however, radiotherapy to the axilla can also be given to obliterate any cancer cells in the lymph nodes. Some studies have explored alternative approaches such as no surgical treatment to the underarm nodes. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to March 2015. The review identified 26 randomised controlled trials that compared axillary lymph node dissection (ALND) with alternative approaches involving less axillary surgery. Patients in these trials had operable primary breast cancer, and some trials included patients with palpably enlarged axillary lymph nodes. Ten trials including 3849 patients compared ALND with no axillary surgery. Six trials including 1559 patients compared ALND with axillary sampling. Seven trials including 9426 patients compared ALND with sentinel lymph node biopsy (SLNB). Four trials including 2585 patients compared ALND (with or without radiotherapy) with radiotherapy alone. 
