Can cognitive behavioural therapy reduce harmful sexual behaviour in adolescents?
Background 
About one out of every 1000 young people aged 12 to 17 years old engages in harmful sexual behaviour like making other children engage in sexual activities. Some are convicted of a sexual offence. Many treatment programmes include cognitive‐behavioural techniques, tailored to individual needs. Cognitive‐behavioural therapy (CBT) is based on the theory that changing the way people think helps change behaviour. It has been used for adults, but it is not known if it works for adolescents with harmful sexual behaviour. 
Review question 
Is CBT better at reducing adolescent harmful sexual behaviour than no treatment or alternative treatment? We looked at evidence about the effect of CBT on offending rates and adverse events such as self‐harm. We also examined participants' emotional and psychological well‐being, as well as their sexual attitudes and behaviour. 
Search date 
In June 2019, we searched many databases for randomised controlled trials comparing CBT to no treatment or other treatments. Randomised controlled trials use a random method (like tossing a coin) to decide whether people get different treatments or no treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We found four small studies including a total of 115 young men exhibiting harmful sexual behaviour. In two studies, participants were aged 12 to 18 years old. In the other two studies the male participants were simply described as "adolescents". 
Three studies were conducted in the USA and one in South Africa. Studies were short. One lasted two months; two lasted three months; one lasted six months. We do not know who funded these studies. 
Two studies (39 participants) compared CBT to no treatment or treatment as usual. One study (16 participants) compared CBT to a sexual education programme. One study compared CBT (19 participants) with mode deactivation therapy (explicit, systematic, goal‐oriented approach to address problematic emotions, behaviours and thoughts) (21 participants) and social skills training (social skills development and role playing) (20 participants). In three studies, CBT was delivered in a residential setting by someone working there. In the fourth, it was provided in community by a licensed therapist studying for a PhD. 
Key results 
One study (59 participants) examined whether CBT reduced harmful sexual behaviour, or made participants less likely to offend. It provided very low‐certainty evidence showing CBT reduced sexual aggression at post‐intervention. This was similar to other treatments of mode deactivation therapy and social skills training. No studies examined whether it had unintended consequences such as self‐harm. 
