Treatments for toe walking in children that is not associated with a medical condition
Background 
It is estimated that up to five per cent of children are diagnosed with toe walking without a medical cause (known as idiopathic toe walking; ITW). We do not know why children have this walking style or what its long‐term impact might be. Children with ITW often present to health professionals with tight muscles at the back of their lower legs. This tightness is most commonly treated with stretches, plaster casts, or surgery. 
Review question 
We were interested in the effects of treatments for ITW in children. Cochrane authors collected relevant clinical trials to answer this question and assessed the evidence. 
Date up to date 
This Cochrane Review is current to 29 April 2019.
Study characteristics 
Four trials met the inclusion criteria. They included a total of 104 people; however, three trials did not provide results that we could include in the review. (One trial studied different kinds of foot orthoses, which are in‐shoe devices that redistribute force and change gait), and two investigated the effects of adding botulinum toxin injections to various treatments such as stretching, exercises, splints, and footwear.) This review therefore only included the results of one trial, in which 47 children (aged between 5 and 14.5 years) received treatment with either plaster casts alone or plaster casts and injections of botulinum toxin A (BTX) into calf muscles. The study reported how much the children toe walked (based on their parents' observation), any change in ankle range of movement, and relapse (whether the children were still toe walking 12 months after treatment). The included study took place in Sweden and was not funded by anyone with a commercial interest in the results of the study. 
Results 
The evidence was too uncertain to determine whether or not there were differences in outcomes (amount of toe walking observed by parents, range of movement at the ankle, or recurrence of toe walking at 12 months) between children who received plaster casts and injections of BTX into calf muscles, compared to those who received plaster casts alone. 
There were small numbers of adverse events in both groups, including calf pain and minor skin problems during treatment. 
Conclusion 
The available evidence is too uncertain to determine whether treatment with BTX injections and plaster casts are any more effective than just plaster casts in children with toe walking not associated with a medical condition. The limited evidence found in this review indicates a need for future research on treatments for this condition. 
