Family planning programs for women living with HIV
Background 
Family planning services can help women with HIV use birth control and prevent unwanted pregnancies. People with HIV are living longer due to better treatment. More HIV‐positive women will want to choose whether and when to have a child. 
Methods 
We ran computer searches for studies of family planning (FP) programs for HIV‐positive women until 2 August 2016. The services could be compared to a different program, usual care, or no counseling. Studies could also compare HIV‐positive and HIV‐negative women. We tried to find results adjusted for factors that affect the outcomes. Otherwise, we used unadjusted data. We assessed the research quality. 
Results 
We included three new studies for a total of 10. These studies from seven African countries had 16,116 participants. Three studies compared an enhanced FP program versus usual care, three looked at FP services combined with HIV care, and four studied HIV‐positive versus HIV‐negative women. 
For four studies of good quality, the special program was related to birth control use or pregnancy. In Nigeria, sites combined FP and HIV services. Women with enhanced FP services used modern birth control more often than women with basic FP services. A study in Kenya compared FP combined with HIV care versus referral to a separate FP clinic. Women with combined services used more effective birth control more often than those referred elsewhere for FP. One study in Kenya, Namibia, and Tanzania tested an HIV prevention and FP program. Women with the special program in Tanzania used effective birth control more often than women who had usual care. Also, they were more likely to report condom use during the most recent sex. Overall, women with the prevention program were less likely to have had unprotected sex in the past two weeks. A study from Côte d'Ivoire combined HIV testing with FP services. Pregnancy rates were similar for HIV‐positive and HIV‐negative women, but HIV‐positive women had fewer unwanted pregnancies. 
Authors' conclusions 
Studies since 2009 were better quality than those from the 1990s. Training on FP and counseling was more common, which could strengthen the FP services. Research was still limited on birth control counseling for HIV‐positive women. Better counseling methods would help women choose and use a birth control method. The need is especially great in areas with few resources, such as HIV clinics. 
