Herbal preparations for the treatment of women with uterine fibroids
Uterine fibroids are benign (non‐cancerous) growths in the uterus. They are the most common type of growth found in a woman's pelvis, being present in about one in four or five women older than 35 years. Although many women with fibroids are not aware of them, the growths may cause symptoms or problems due to their size, number, or location. Common symptoms can include longer or more frequent menstrual periods, heavy bleeding, menstrual pain, pressure in the lower abdomen, infertility, or miscarriages. Women with these symptoms may require treatment. Fibroids can be treated with surgery, such as myomectomy (removal of the fibroids while leaving the uterus in place) or hysterectomy (removal of the uterus). Another approach is uterine artery embolization, by which the blood vessels to the uterus are blocked. Drugs such as gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists may be used to shrink fibroids and to control bleeding. 
Herbal preparations are commonly used alternatives to drug treatment, surgery, or both. This systematic review included 21 randomised clinical trials involving 2222 women with uterine fibroids. There is no evidence on the effectiveness of herbal preparations for symptom relief as no trials evaluated this properly. Compared with conventional medication, one herbal preparation, Tripterygium wilfordii, may have a more beneficial effect in reducing the volume of uterine fibroids. Another five herbal medicines appeared to be similar to conventional medication in reducing the volume of fibroids. The herbal medicine Guizhi Fuling formula showed a significantly greater effect in reducing the volume of the fibroids when combined with mifepristone versus mifepristone alone. However, these clinical trials were small in terms of the number of participants and the trial quality was low. Thirteen out of 21 included trials reported on adverse effects of herbal preparations and found some minor problems such as stomach discomfort, nausea, hot flushes, and poor appetite although no serious adverse effects were identified. The effect of herbal preparations for uterine fibroids is therefore not confirmed in this review and needs to be studied in large, good quality trials. 
