Erythropoietin or darbepoetin for patients with cancer
Introduction 
Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of the effect of epoetin and darbepoetin for people with cancer. After searching for all relevant studies, they found 91 studies with up to 20,102 people. Their findings are summarized below: 
What the research says: 
In people with cancer‐related anaemia:
‐ Epoetin and darbepoetin decrease the need for red blood cell transfusions; however, they also increase the risk for hypertension, thromboembolic events and deaths 
‐ It is not clear whether epoetin and darbepoetin improve quality of life, by making you feel less tired 
When you have cancer, you often also have anaemia. Anemia means having lower than normal red blood cells in your blood. This might become even worse with cancer treatment such as chemotherapy and it is measured by the amount of haemoglobin in your red blood cells. As haemoglobin is responsible for carrying oxygen throughout your body, when you have anaemia you might experience symptoms such as extreme tiredness, shortness of breath, dizziness and chest pain. In order to treat anaemia, doctors often use red blood cell transfusions. Transfusions improve the symptoms of anaemia very quickly; however, they can have some infrequent complications like allergic reactions or transmission of infectious diseases. 
Epoetin and darbepoetin belong to a group of medications called 'Erythropoiesis Stimulating Agents'. Erythropoietin is the name of a hormone produced mainly in the kidney, which takes part in the production of red blood cells. Epoetin and darbepoetin work in a similar way to this hormone to increase the number of red blood cells and treat anaemia. Epoetin and darbepoetin are not used as anti‐cancer therapy but as supportive treatment to treat anaemia caused by cancer or anticancer therapy. These drugs are marketed as Epogen®, Procrit®, (Eprex®), Recormon®, and Aranesp® and are given subcutaneously. 
What happens to people with cancer related anaemia who take epoetin or darbepoetin: 
‐ Twenty‐five out of 100 persons receiving epoetin or darbepoetin had to undergo red blood cell transfusions, compared to 39 out of 100 persons not receiving epoetin or darbepoetin. 
