Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs for management of pain in women with endometriosis
What is the issue? 
Endometriosis is a gynaecological condition that commonly affects women of childbearing age. It can lead to painful symptoms, including painful periods, pain during or after sexual intercourse, pelvic and lower abdominal pain and infertility. It can greatly affect women's quality of life by impacting their careers, everyday activities, sexual and nonsexual relationships and fertility. Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) are most commonly used as first‐line treatment for women with endometriosis because they have few side effects, and many are available over the counter. 
Why is this important? 
Endometriosis is very common, but the condition can be difficult to diagnose. In 2015, 1.8 billion women (aged 15 to 49 years) in the world had received a diagnosis of endometriosis. It is estimated that up to 60% of women with painful periods have endometriosis. Endometriosis greatly affects women's quality of life, impacting their careers, everyday activities, sexual and nonsexual relationships and fertility. An unpublished survey conducted by a patient support organisation in the United Kingdom ‐ Endometriosis UK (www.endometriosis‐uk.org/) ‐ found that 65% of women with endometriosis reported that their condition had negatively affected their employment. Ten per cent of women had to reduce their hours of work, and 30% had not been able to continue in the same employment. As many as 16% of women were unable to continue in any employment, and 6% needed to claim state benefits; thus, in addition to their feelings of loss as contributors to society, they became dependent upon others. This increased their feelings of low self‐esteem. Endometriosis is seen as a significant public health issue because a large number of women are affected and illnesses associated with this disease are significant. 
Nonsteroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs are readily available without prescription for pain relief. They work by preventing or slowing down the production of prostaglandins, which helps to relieve the painful cramps associated with endometriosis. However, a Cochrane review on the use of NSAIDs for painful periods found greater risk of stomach upset (e.g. nausea, diarrhoea) or other side effects (e.g. headache, drowsiness, dizziness, dryness of the mouth). We conducted the present review to compare all NSAIDs used to treat women with painful symptoms caused by endometriosis versus placebo, other pain management drugs or no treatment, to evaluate their effectiveness and safety. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for new evidence in October 2016 and identified no new randomised controlled trials. 
From previous updates, this review found limited evidence on the effectiveness of NSAIDs (specifically naproxen) for management of pain caused by endometriosis. This review is also limited in that it includes only one study with data suitable for analysis, and this study involved only 20 women. Available evidence is of very low quality, mainly owing to poor reporting of methods, lack of precision in findings for overall pain relief, unintended side effects of treatment and the need for extra pain relief. The included trial did not report on quality of life, effects on daily activities, absence from work or school or participant satisfaction with treatment. 
