Medical treatment of alcohol‐related liver disease
Background 
Alcohol‐related liver disease or alcoholic liver disease is liver disease related to excessive alcohol consumption. It includes a spectrum of liver diseases that includes alcoholic steatosis (simple fatty liver or simple steatosis or accumulation of fat in liver cells), alcoholic hepatitis (inflammation of liver cells), and alcoholic cirrhosis (destruction of liver cells and replacement with scar tissue). This can cause major health problems such as excessive tiredness, and liver failure leading to vomiting blood, confusion, and death. A number of medical treatments have been used to treat alcohol‐related liver disease. The best way to treat alcohol‐related liver disease is not clear. We sought to resolve this issue by searching for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised clinical trials whose results were reported until February 2017. We included only studies in which participants had not undergone liver transplantation previously and those who did not have liver disease due to other causes such as viral infections. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time (direct comparison), we planned to use an advanced method which allows comparison of the many different treatments that are individually compared in the trials (network meta‐analysis). However, because of the nature of the information available, we could not determine whether the network meta‐analysis results were reliable. Therefore, we used standard Cochrane methodology. 
Study characteristics 
We identified 81 trials which were eligible for our review. We have presented the results for people with differing spectrum of alcohol‐related liver disease separately. 
Key results 
Alcoholic hepatitis  
Fifty randomised clinical trials included 4484 participants with alcoholic hepatitis. The period of follow‐up ranged from one to 12 months. Because of the nature of the information available, we used methods similar to Cochrane methodology. None of the active interventions showed any improvement in any of the clinical outcomes reported in the trials, which includes deaths (at various time points), cirrhosis, liver failure or liver transplantation. None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life or incidence of primary liver cancer. 
Severe alcoholic hepatitis 
Of the trials on alcoholic hepatitis, 19 trials (2545 participants) included exclusively participants with severe alcoholic hepatitis. The period of follow‐up ranged from one to 12 months. There was no alteration in the conclusions when only people with severe alcoholic hepatitis were included in the analysis. 
Source of funding: Eleven trials were funded by parties with vested interest in the results. Sixteen trials were funded by parties without vested interest in the results. The source of funding was not reported in 23 trials. 
Other alcohol‐related liver diseases  
Thirty‐one randomised clinical trials included 3695 participants with other alcohol‐related liver diseases (with a wide spectrum of alcohol‐related liver diseases). The period of follow‐up ranged from one to 48 months. The risk of deaths was lower in the propylthiouracil group than in the no intervention group and higher in the ursodeoxycholic acid group than in the no intervention group. However, these results are based on trials with methodological deficiencies that make the results unreliable. As a result, trials of low risk of bias of sufficient sample size are required before propylthiouracil can be recommended routinely. There was no evidence of improvement in any of the remaining clinical outcomes by any of the interventions compared with no intervention. 
Source of funding: Twelve trials were funded by parties with vested interest in the results. Three trials were funded by parties without vested interest in the results. The source of funding was not reported in 16 trials. 
