High‐dose chemotherapy with autologous stem cell transplantation in the first line treatment of aggressive Non‐Hodgkin Lymphoma (NHL) in adults 
Aggressive Non‐Hodgkin's Lymphomas (NHLs) are fast growing forms of lymphoma. The most common type is a diffuse large B‐Cell lymphoma (DLCL) but there are several other subtypes of aggressive lymphoma and variants of DLCL, such as centroblastic, immunoblastic or anaplastic large B‐Cell lymphoma. Aggressive NHLs are generally responsive to conventional cancer therapies such as chemotherapy and radiation therapy. In the 1980s, many researchers reported that some patients with diffuse, large‐cell lymphoma, who had not responded to conventional chemotherapy, could be cured with high‐dose chemotherapy and autologous stem cell or bone marrow transplantation. This techniques may be used to treat the cancer, because the high doses of chemotherapy can destroy the patient's bone marrow. Therefore stem cells or marrow is taken from the patient before treatment. The marrow or the stem cells are then frozen, and the patient is given high‐dose chemotherapy with or without radiation therapy to treat the cancer. The marrow or the stem cells that were taken out is then thawed and given back through a needle in a vein to replace the marrow that was destroyed. This type of transplant is called an autologous transplant. If the marrow given is taken from another person, the transplant is called an allogeneic transplant.On the first decade of study into autologous transplantation for the treatment of aggressive lymphoma, the focus was on the use of this approach to rescue patients after relapse or if the disease already progressed under standard chemotherapy. These encouraging results in relapsed or progressive lymphoma led to the testing of the technique as a primary therapy for the disease. However, it was also important to identify factors that could predict outcome of the therapy for patients with aggressive lymphoma. The International Prognostic Index score (IPI) was established in 1993. This score was designed to better predict outcome of aggressive lymphoma. Based on the number of negative prognostic factors present at the time of diagnosis (age >60 years, stage III/IV disease, elevated lactate dehydrogenase [LDH] level, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group [ECOG] performance status > 2, more than one extranodal site of disease) four outcome groups (low‐risk, low‐intermediate risk, high‐intermediate risk and high‐risk ) were identified with a 5‐year overall survival ranging from 26% to 73%. 
