The risk of heart attack and stroke in women using birth control pills
Background 
Since their introduction, combined oral contraceptive pills have become one of the most popular birth control methods. These pills contain two types of female hormones, estrogen and progestagen. When used correctly, the failure rate (i.e. the occurrence of unwanted pregnancy) is less than one per 100 women per year. Despite their reliability, oral contraceptive pills have been found to increase the risk of a blood clot forming in an artery, i.e. arterial thrombosis (heart attack or stroke). As arterial thrombosis is rare in young women, and as many types of oral contraceptive pills exist, the size of the risk is unclear. Furthermore, the effect of different types of progestagens or different doses of estrogen on the risk of arterial thrombosis is unknown. 
Review question 
In this Cochrane Review we aimed to assess the risk of arterial thrombosis in different types of oral contraceptive pills. To do this, we searched the literature on July 8, 2015 for all studies that assessed the risk of arterial thrombosis associated with oral contraceptive pills in women under the age of 50 years. 
Study characteristics 
In total, 28 articles on 24 unique studies met the inclusion criteria.
Key results 
Our results showed that the overall risk of arterial thrombosis was was 1.6‐fold increased in women using oral contraceptive pills compared with women who did not use oral contraceptive pills. The risk did not vary clearly according to progestagen type. However, we found that the risk of arterial thrombosis seemed to be twice as high in women taking pills with higher doses of estrogen. Also, the risk of other side effects of oral contraceptive pills (such as a blood clot in a vein‐venous thrombosis) should be considered before any type of oral contraceptive pill is prescribed. It is likely that the COC pill containing levonorgestrel and 30 µg of estrogen is the safest oral form of combined oral hormonal contraception. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of evidence in this review was moderate. Most studies (22 out of 28) correctly confirmed that patients had been diagnosed with arterial thrombosis. However, only four studies also checked that the type of pill a patient had been using was reported correctly. In addition, only half of the studies ensured that the correct comparisons were made between patients with and patients without arterial thrombosis. Also of importance is the fact that the analysis on progestagen type was based on few studies only. 
