Hypertonic saline (salt water with at least 3% salt) nebulised as a fine mist through a mask or mouthpiece for cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for treatment with nebulised hypertonic saline compared to placebo or other agents for improving mucus clearance in the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). 
Background 
People with CF produce large amounts of thick mucus which is difficult to clear and blocks up their airways. Chest physiotherapy or medication e.g. hypertonic saline, or both combined, are used to try and clear this mucus from the airways. Hypertonic saline is water with a concentration of 3% to 7% salt and is inhaled as a fine mist. This is an update of an earlier review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 08 August 2018.
Trial characteristics 
We included 17 trials with 966 participants with CF aged between 4 months and 63 years. Eleven trials compared hypertonic saline to isotonic saline (water with 0.12 to 0.9% salt (described as placebo (a dummy treatment)); one trial compared isotonic saline and voluntary cough to hypertonic saline or mannitol 300 mg; three trials compared hypertonic saline to rhDNase (Pulmozyme®); one trial compared hypertonic saline to amiloride; and one trial compared hypertonic saline to Mistabron®. Trials assessed different concentrations of hypertonic saline with different nebulisers and different treatment schedules; the most common treatment was twice‐daily 7% hypertonic saline and the most common nebuliser was ultrasonic. Most trials treated people with a bronchodilator to widen the airways before giving the hypertonic saline. 
Key results 
Hypertonic saline 3% to 7% versus placebo  
In three trials (225 people) lung function improved after four weeks, but only one trial (164 people) reported results after 48 weeks, and showed no difference in lung function. No deaths were reported. One adult trial reported fewer exacerbations needing antibiotics with hypertonic saline than with placebo, but a trial in children found no difference in this outcome. There was not enough information to properly assess adverse events such as cough, chest tightness, tonsillitis and vomiting. In four trials (80 participants) sputum clearance was better with hypertonic saline. 
