Do psychological therapies help diabetic foot ulcers to heal and prevent their recurrence?
Background 
Diabetes is a condition that causes high levels of sugar in the blood. Blood sugar levels are controlled by insulin, a hormone made by the pancreas. Insulin instructs the liver, muscles and fat cells to remove sugar from the blood and store it. When the pancreas does not make enough insulin, or the body does not respond to insulin, too much sugar stays in the blood. 
High blood sugar can damage the nerves in the body’s extremities (such as the hands or feet) and cause numbness. This means that if someone with diabetes cuts their foot by stepping on a sharp object, or develops blisters on their feet, they might not be aware if it. Blisters may develop into open wounds or sores, known as diabetic foot ulcers (DFU). These can be slow to heal, because diabetes damages blood vessels and this restricts blood supply – and the oxygen and nutrients blood carries, which are necessary for healing. If left untreated, ulcers can become infected. In severe cases, amputation of a toe, foot, or more, may be necessary. 
People with DFU may feel distressed about their wounds and the impact these have on their life. This can reduce chances of ulcers healing, and make them more likely to reappear. Psychological therapies might improve ulcer healing and prevent reappearance, by helping people to feel that they can manage their diabetes and overcome DFU. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if psychological therapies improve DFU healing and prevent their reappearance. We also wanted to know if they affect the number of amputations, quality of life, cost of treatment and people's belief that they can manage the condition, in addition to comparing the effects of different psychological therapies. 
Our methods 
We searched for relevant randomised controlled trials, in which the treatment each person receives is chosen at random. These studies give the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. We assessed how certain the evidence was by considering factors such as the way studies were conducted, study sizes, and consistency of findings across studies. Based on our assessments, we categorised the evidence as being of very low, low, moderate or high certainty. 
What we found 
We found seven studies that involved 290 people with diabetes who were followed up for between six weeks and six months. The studies were conducted in Australia, the USA, Norway, Indonesia, South Africa and the UK. The psychological therapies investigated were: 
‐ counselling (three studies);
‐ muscle relaxation (one study);
‐ individually‐tailored motivation (one study);
‐ a therapy that aims to develop a person’s understanding of well‐being (one study);
‐ group‐based cognitive behavioural therapy (one study).
Psychological therapies compared to usual care 
We do not know if psychological therapies improve healing of DFU, or prevent ulcer reappearance, because the evidence is of very low certainty. 
Different psychological therapies compared to each other 
We do not know if some psychological therapies have more of an effect than others on healing of DFU or preventing ulcer reappearance. This is because either no studies investigated this, or the evidence is of very low certainty. 
We do not know if psychological therapies have an effect on the time it takes for ulcers to reappear, amputation, quality of life or a person’s belief in their ability to manage their condition, because there were either no or too few studies investigating this. No studies reported information about the cost of psychological therapies. 
What does this mean? 
There is no robust evidence about the effects of psychological therapies on DFU healing and recurrence. 
There is a need for high‐quality studies that include enough people to detect a potential effect of psychological therapies on ulcer healing or reappearance. It would be helpful to agree on a set of clear measures to include in all future studies, so that results from different studies could be compared and analysed together. 
How‐up‐to date is this review? 
The evidence in this Cochrane Review is current to September 2019.
