Effects of governance arrangements for health systems in low‐income countries
What is the aim of this overview? 
The aim of this Cochrane Overview is to provide a broad summary of what is known about the effects of different governance arrangements for health systems in low‐income countries. 
This overview is based on 19 relevant systematic reviews. These systematic reviews searched for studies that evaluated different types of governance arrangements. The reviews included a total of 172 studies. 
This overview is one of a series of four Cochrane Overviews that evaluate health system arrangements. 
Main results 
What are the effects of different ways of organising authority and accountability for health policies? 
Three reviews were included and the key findings are that:
‐ collaboration between local health agencies and other local government agencies may lead to little or no difference in physical health or quality of life (low‐certainty evidence); 
‐ placing restrictions on the medicines reimbursed by health insurance systems probably decreases the use of and spending on these medicines (moderate‐certainty evidence); 
‐ it is uncertain if fraud prevention, detection and response interventions reduce healthcare fraud and related spending (very low‐certainty evidence). 
What are the effects of different ways of organising authority and accountability for organisations? 
Two reviews were included and the key findings are that:
‐ Contracting non‐state, not‐for‐profit providers to deliver health services may increase access to and use of these services, improve people's health outcomes and reduce household spending on health (low‐certainty evidence). No evidence was available on whether contracting out was more effective than using these funds in the state sector. 
What are the effects of different ways of organising authority and accountability for commercial products such as medicines and technologies? 
Three reviews were included and the key findings are that:
‐ systems in which the World Health Organization (WHO) certifies medicine manufacturers (prequalification) and medicines registration (in which medicine regulatory authorities assess medicine manufacturers to ensure they meet international standards) may decrease the proportion of medicines that are substandard or counterfeit (low‐certainty evidence); 
‐ establishing a maximum reimbursement for pharmacies dispensing similar medicines covered by insurance may increase the use of generic medicines and may reduce the use of brand‐name medicines (low‐certainty evidence), but it is uncertain whether this approach affects the overall amount spent on medicines (very low‐certainty evidence); 
‐ direct‐to‐consumer advertising increases people's requests for medicines and the numbers of prescriptions given (high‐certainty evidence). 
What are the effects of different ways of organising authority and accountability for healthcare providers? 
Seven reviews were included and the key findings are that:
‐ training programmes for district health system managers may increase their knowledge of planning processes and their monitoring and evaluation skills (low‐certainty evidence); 
‐ reducing immigration restrictions in high‐income countries probably increases the migration of nurses from low‐ and middle‐income to these countries (moderate‐certainty evidence); 
