Family therapy for those diagnosed with anorexia nervosa
Review Question 
This review investigated whether family therapy approaches reduce rates of anorexia nervosa (AN), or associated symptoms, compared to other treatments. 
Background 
People with AN have a deliberately maintained low body weight and distorted body image. They also experience related medical and psychological problems, and the risk of dying from the disease (mortality) is relatively high. Family therapy approaches are one form of treatment used in AN. 
Search date 
The evidence is current up to 8 April 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included 25 trials in the review. Fourteen trials used family‐based therapy, one used systems family therapy, one used structural family therapy and seven studies used therapy with family involvement but did not provide specific details about the theory behind the therapy or its procedures, termed other family therapy. Two studies included two family therapy arms each: one included family‐based therapy and systems family therapy arms, and one included systems family therapy and other family therapy arms. Four studies compared family therapy approaches to treatment as usual, six compared family therapy approaches to other psychological interventions and two compared family therapy to educational interventions. Twelve studies compared various forms of family therapy approaches to each other. Two studies included both a treatment as usual as well as other psychological intervention arms. 
Key results 
Overall there was some low‐quality evidence from only two trials to suggest that family therapy approaches may be better than treatment as usual in the short term. The size and very low quality of the evidence base and the consistency of the trial outcomes are insufficient at this time to draw conclusions about whether family therapy approaches offer any clear advantage over educational or psychological interventions. We found very few differences between treatment groups on measures of weight, eating disorder symptoms and family functioning, and these differences were generally not maintained at follow‐up. The reporting of death rates was not clear enough to assess whether death is reduced for those treated with family therapy approaches compared to other interventions. There was very little information about the effects of the interventions on general or family functioning. 
Quality of the evidence 
The way the trials were run was not adequately described in many studies and we found potential risks of bias in most of the studies. This limited the meaningful conclusions that we could draw from the studies. 
Authors' conclusions 
Overall, there is a very limited evidence base in this field. There is some low‐quality evidence to suggest that family therapy approaches may be effective compared to treatment as usual in the short term. There is insufficient evidence to be able to determine whether family therapy approaches offer any advantage over educational interventions, other types of psychological therapy, or whether one type of family therapy approach is more effective than another. Most of the studies contributing to the findings were undertaken in adolescents and young adults. There are clear implications about how family therapy approaches might be delivered to different age groups, and we need further research to understand what the resulting effects on treatment might be. 
