Medications or surgery for the treatment of open angle glaucoma
Open angle glaucoma (OAG) is the most common form of glaucoma and an important cause of blindness. Having a high intraocular pressure (IOP) is an important risk factor. Treatment for OAG aims to lower the IOP and thus reduce the risk of progressive loss of vision. IOP can be lowered by medications (eye drops), laser therapy or surgery. There are many different types of eye drops available and these are compared in a Cochrane review (Vass 2007). Surgery for glaucoma has also evolved in the last 40 years. The most common type is called trabeculectomy, or drainage surgery, that creates an opening at the wall of the eye to release fluid and reduce the IOP. Surgery may have complications during and after the operation and may fail in the long‐term due to scarring. Drainage surgery forms a 'bleb' i.e. small blister like elevation on the surface of the eye which can sometimes be uncomfortable. 
It is not clear whether medication or surgery is the better treatment for OAG. The purpose of this review was to review and assess evidence from randomised studies to compare treatment with medications with surgical treatments in terms of how well they work, their relative safety and cost‐effectiveness. Four relevant trials were identified, treating 888 people. Three studies were in the UK and one in the US. These trials had been initiated over many years from 1968 up to the most recent trial in 1993. The earlier trials used medications, and in one trial surgical techniques that are now rarely used. Findings of these studies suggest that, in mild OAG, worsening of the condition was not different whether first treatment was medication or surgery, but surgery was associated with more eye discomfort at five years. In more severe glaucoma, surgery lowered IOP significantly more than medications (not widely used anymore) and reduced the risk of progressive loss of visual field. In three trials the risk of developing cataract was higher with surgery (trabeculectomy), although in one trial with follow‐up beyond five years there was no difference in the number of cataract surgeries between treatment groups. There was insufficient evidence to determine how well more recently available medications work compared with surgery in more severe OAG, and which was the more cost‐effective treatment option. More research is required. 
