Skin care interventions for preventing eczema and food allergy
Does moisturising baby skin prevent eczema or food allergies? 
Key messages 
Skin care treatments in babies, such as using moisturisers on the skin during the first year of life, probably do not stop them from developing eczema, and probably increase the chance of skin infection. 
We are uncertain how skin care treatments might affect the chances of developing a food allergy. We need evidence from well‐conducted studies to determine effects of skin care on food allergies in babies. 
What are allergies? 
An immune response is how the body recognises and defends itself against substances that appear harmful. An allergy is a reaction of the body's immune system to a particular food or substance (an allergen) that is usually harmless. Different allergies affect different parts of the body, and their effects can be mild or serious. 
Food allergies and eczema 
Eczema is a common skin allergy that causes dry, itchy, cracked skin. Eczema is common in children, often developing before their first birthday. It is sometimes a long‐lasting condition, but it may improve or clear as a child gets older. 
Allergies to food can cause itching in the mouth, a raised itchy red rash, swelling of the face, stomach symptoms or difficulty breathing. They usually happen within 2 hours after a food is eaten. 
People with food allergies often have other allergic conditions, such as asthma, hay fever, and eczema. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to learn how skin care affects the risk of a baby developing eczema or food allergies. Skin care treatments included: 
• putting moisturisers on a baby's skin;
• bathing babies with water containing moisturisers or moisturising oils;
• advising parents to use less soap, or to bathe their child less often; and
• using water softeners. 
We also wanted to know if these skin care treatments cause any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies of different types of skin care for healthy babies (aged up to one year) with no previous food allergy, eczema, or other skin condition. 
