Sclerotherapy versus beta‐blockers for primary prophylaxis of oesophageal variceal bleeding in children 
Background 
Portal hypertension is defined as an increase in the blood pressure within a system of veins (a type of blood vessel) called the portal venous system, which drains blood from the gastrointestinal tract (gut) and spleen into the liver. Portal hypertension commonly accompanies advanced liver disease and often gives rise to life‐threatening complications, including bleeding (haemorrhage) from oesophageal (food pipe) and gastrointestinal varices (enlarged or swollen veins). 
Following numerous randomised clinical trials (studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) demonstrating the effectiveness of medicines called non‐selective beta‐blockers and endoscopic variceal ligation (where an enlarged vein is tied off or ligated by a rubber band using an illuminated optical, slender, and tubular instrument used to look into the body) in decreasing the incidence of variceal bleeding, treatment to prevent first variceal bleeding (called primary prophylaxis) has become the standard of care in adults. However, it is unknown whether these interventions are of benefit or harm when used in children. Because of the size of the endoscopic ligator, sclerotherapy (the endoscopic injection of tissue irritants that cause obliteration of blood vessels) is the only endoscopic prophylactic option currently available in infants weighing less than 10 kg of bodyweight. 
Aims 
We aimed to conduct a systematic review of randomised clinical trials to assess the benefits and harms of sclerotherapy versus beta‐blockers for prevention of oesophageal variceal bleeding in children with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (blockage or narrowing of the portal vein (the blood vessel that brings blood to the liver from the intestines) by a blood clot). We searched for studies to February 2019. 
Key results 
We found no randomised clinical trials for inclusion in this review. Accordingly, we lack study results from randomised clinical trials to conclude if sclerotherapy versus beta‐blocker may be beneficial or not when administered as primary prophylaxis of oesophageal varices in children and adolescents with a liver disease or portal vein thrombosis. There is a need for well‐designed trials that should include important clinical outcomes such as death, failure to control bleeding, and side effects. 
