Non‐antipsychotic catecholaminergic drugs for antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia
Review question. 
To determine if catecholaminergic drugs help in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia for people with schizophrenia or similar mental health problems. 
Background. 
People with schizophrenia often hear voices and see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). The main treatment of schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. However, these drugs can have debilitating side‐effects. Tardive dyskinesia is an involuntary movement that causes the face, mouth, tongue and jaw to convulse, spasm and grimace. It is caused by long‐term or high‐dose use of antipsychotic drugs, is difficult to treat and can be incurable. One suggested treatment is to use medication that affects the catecholaminergic system, which is a group of brain chemicals. 
Study characteristics. 
The review includes 10 small, short studies published mainly in the 1980s involving a total of 261 people. 
Key results. 
One small study found that after 2 weeks' treatment both alpha‐methyldopa and reserpine may lead to clinically important improvement in tardive dyskinesia symptoms compared with placebo, but the quality of evidence was low. We are uncertain about the effect of reserpine versus alpha‐methyldopa; quality of evidence was very low. Another small trial compared tetrabenazine and haloperidol after 18 weeks' treatment, but again we are uncertain about the effect as the quality of evidence was very low. The included studies did not report on any harmful effects of the drugs. 
Quality of the evidence. 
Evidence is weak, limited, short term, and small scale. It is not possible to recommend these drugs as a treatment for tardive dyskinesia and their use is entirely experimental. There is a need for larger and more rigorous research in the area. 
This plain language summary was adapted by the review authors from a summary originally written by Ben Gray, Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation (mcpin.org/). 
