This review aims to investigate the current literature available and provides an overview of the evidence demonstrated in recent clinical trials on the subject. The review authors identified a total of six trials involving 492 participants. Two hundred and thirty‐nine people underwent planned laparoscopic cholecystectomy as day‐surgery and 253 participants stayed in the hospital overnight after the procedure. All the trials were at high risk of bias (methodological deficiencies that might make it possible to arrive at wrong conclusions by overestimating the benefit or underestimating the harm of the day‐surgery or overnight stay procedure). We looked at outcomes that are considered to be important from the perspective of the participant and also the healthcare provider. These outcomes include death, serious complication, quality of life following procedure, pain, how long it took for people to return to normal activity and to return to work, hospital readmissions, and failed discharges (failure to be discharged as planned). There was no significant difference in the proportion who died or the complication rate between the group who underwent day‐surgery and those who stayed overnight. Quality of life did not differ significantly between the two groups. There was no significant difference in the time taken for people to return to normal activity or to return to work. There was also no significant difference in the hospital readmission or failed discharge rates. The results suggest that day‐surgery is safe for patients. It is important to note that all trials were at risk of bias and the data were sparse, resulting in a considerable chance of arriving at wrong conclusions due to systematic errors (overestimating benefits or underestimating harms of day‐surgery or overnight stay) and random errors (play of chance). More randomised trials are needed to investigate the impact of day‐surgery and overnight stay on the quality of life and other outcomes of people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. 