Changes at the workplace for preventing disability in workers on sick leave
Background 
Changes at the workplace such as working less hours or lifting less can help workers who are on sick leave get back to work earlier. Helping workers on sick leave get back to work earlier prevents long‐term disability. Because there is still uncertainty about the effectiveness of workplace changes, we evaluated whether workplace interventions decrease time to return to work more than usual care or clinical interventions. 
Studies 
We searched the literature until 2 February 2015. We included 14 randomised controlled trials involving 1897 workers with a follow‐up time of one year or more. In eight studies the workers had musculoskeletal disorders, in five studies they had mental health problems, and in one study they had cancer. 
Key results 
Considering all causes of work disability together, results showed that workplace interventions are effective in helping workers get back to work and in reducing duration of sickness absence. The effectiveness of workplace interventions is questionable regarding lasting return to work and recurrences of sick leave. The effectiveness of workplace interventions differs based on cause of work disability. We found moderate‐quality evidence to support the use of workplace interventions in reducing sickness absence among workers with musculoskeletal disorders when compared to usual care. Workplace interventions were also effective in improving pain and functional status among workers with musculoskeletal disorders. The effectiveness of workplace interventions on sickness absence was not evident for workers with mental health problems or cancer. Furthermore, it was not clear whether a workplace intervention should be offered alone or in combination with a cognitive behavioural intervention. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found moderate‐quality evidence that workplace interventions help workers get back to work and reduce duration of sickness absence. However, we also found very low‐quality evidence of the effectiveness of workplace interventions on lasting return to work, because the results differed based on whether the workers suffered from musculoskeletal disorders, mental health problems, or cancer. 
