Birth control pills with drospirenone for treating premenstrual syndrome
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a common problem. A severe form is called premenstrual dysphoric disorder (PMDD). Birth control pills with the hormones progestin and estrogen have been studied for treating such symptoms. A birth control pill with the progestin drospirenone may work better than other such pills. A drospirenone pill with low estrogen was approved for treating PMDD, the severe form of PMS, in women who use birth control pills. 
We did a computer search for trials that compared a birth control pill containing drospirenone and estrogen to a placebo ('dummy') or another birth control pill in treating premenstrual symptoms. We wrote to researchers to find other trials. We looked at whether the pills reduced symptoms and if side effects were reported. Women recorded their symptoms over time. 
We found five trials with 1920 women. Two trials compared a dummy pill to a drospirenone pill with low estrogen. All the women had PMDD, the severe form of PMS, before the trial. After three months, women on the drospirenone pill with low estrogen had less severe premenstrual symptoms than the group taking the dummy pill. Women in the drospirenone group said they could do more and had more social activities and friends. Women on the drospirenone pill had more nausea, bleeding between periods, and breast pain. These side effects are common with birth control pills. Three trials studied a drospirenone pill with more estrogen for treating less severe symptoms. These women did not all have PMDD. One compared the drospirenone pill to a dummy pill but did not have enough data for our review. Two compared the study pill to another birth control pill. The two‐year study showed the groups were similar for premenstrual symptoms and side effects. The six‐month study did not give enough data on the symptoms. 
A drospirenone pill with low estrogen seems to help premenstrual symptoms in women with severe symptoms (PMDD). The drospirenone pill worked a little better than the dummy pill, which also affected symptoms. We do not know if the birth control pill works longer than three cycles, helps women with less severe symptoms, or is better than other birth control pills. Longer and better studies with more women are needed to address these issues. Trials reports should be clearer about how the study was done. 
