Combined spinal‐epidural versus spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section
What is the issue? 
Regional nerve block is one type of anaesthetic women can receive when having a caesarean section. Two different methods are used. Single‐shot spinal involves a single injection of anaesthetic into the lower spine. Combined spinal and epidural block involves using a larger needle and the insertion of a small catheter into the lower spine. This review examines the relative benefits and risks of these two regional block methods for women undergoing caesarean and for their babies. 
Why is this important? 
Single‐shot spinal anaesthesia for caesarean section is relatively easily performed and works quickly. As it involves a single injection, block duration cannot be extended without the woman having another spinal injection. The rapid onset of the block can cause adverse effects, such as low blood pressure (hypotension) and nausea and vomiting. Lower doses of local anaesthetic may reduce these adverse events, and speed up the return of muscle function. In this review, we look at high‐ and low‐dose spinals separately. 
With combined spinal‐epidural anaesthesia (CSE) the insertion of the epidural catheter allows the injection of small doses into the spine and additional doses of anaesthetic to be administered through the epidural catheter. CSE anaesthetic typically works more slowly and may avoid some of the adverse effects seen in single‐shot spinal anaesthetics. Being able to top up anaesthesia can reduce the need for general anaesthetic or sedation when the regional nerve block is not sufficient for surgery. The epidural catheter may also be used to give pain medication after the operation. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence (8 August 2019) and identified 18 randomised controlled trials (1272 women) comparing high‐ or low‐dose single‐shot spinal anaesthesia with the CSE method. However, most of our analyses involved fewer studies and relatively small numbers of women. Two trials did not contribute data to our review. 
There may be little or no difference between CSE and high‐dose spinal in the number of women requiring repeat anaesthesia or general anaesthetic due to failure to establish adequate initial anaesthesia. We are uncertain whether CSE or spinal makes any difference in the need for additional intra‐operative analgesia or conversion to general anaesthesia. We are also uncertain about the results for the number of women who were satisfied with anaesthesia, regardless of the type of nerve block. More women in the CSE group (13/21) experienced intra‐operative nausea or vomiting requiring treatment than in the high‐dose spinal group (6/21). Similar numbers of women between groups experienced post‐dural puncture headache (5/56 with CSE versus 6/57 with SSS; 3 studies, 113 women), or intra‐operative hypotension requiring treatment (4 trials, 162 women). 
