Shared care across the interface between primary and specialty care in chronic disease management 
What is the aim of this review? 
We conducted this Cochrane review to find out if shared care between primary and specialty care physicians improves outcomes for patients with chronic conditions. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed studies to answer this question and found 42 studies relevant for inclusion. 
Key messages 
This review suggests that shared care is effective for managing depression. Shared care interventions for other conditions should be developed within research settings, so that further evidence can be considered before they are introduced routinely into health systems. 
What was studied in this review? 
We have defined shared care across the primary/specialty interface as joint participation of primary care physicians and specialty care physicians in planned delivery of care. This may be informed by enhanced information exchange, over and above routine discharge and referral notices. This approach has the potential to improve the management of chronic disease while leading to better outcomes than are attained by primary or specialty care alone. 
What are the main results of the review? 
Review authors found 42 relevant studies; 39 were randomised controlled trials. Studies were based in 12 different countries that use a range of healthcare systems. Investigators examined shared care for a range of chronic conditions, with diabetes and depression the most commonly included. Most studies examined shared care interventions that consisted of multiple elements and lasted an average of 12 months. 
Study results suggest that shared care Interventions lead to improved outcomes for patients with depression. However, effects of shared care on a range of other outcomes are less certain. Shared care probably has limited or no effect on clinical outcomes, apart from modest effects on improving blood pressure management and mixed effects on patient‐reported outcome measures (such as quality of life and ability to carry out daily tasks), medication prescribing and use, participation in shared care services and management of risk factors. Shared care probably would have little or no effect on hospital admissions, use of services and patient health behaviours. 
