Ultra‐radical (extensive) surgery versus standard surgery to remove tumours in women with advanced ovarian cancer 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of ultra‐radical (extensive) versus standard surgery in the management of ovarian cancer? 
Background 
The ovaries are small glands found on either side of the womb that produce and store eggs, and make hormones that control the menstrual cycle (periods). Ovarian cancer is the most common cause of death in women with a cancer of the reproductive system. Opinions differ about whether women with advanced ovarian cancer have better outcomes if they have 'ultra‐radical' surgery, which is much more extensive than standard surgery, to remove tumours. Standard surgery in an advanced disease setting still has an element of radicality and comprises as a minimum many of the surgical procedures involved in more radical surgery. Ultra‐radical (extensive) surgery is an extension of standard surgery and may include at least one additional extensive surgical procedure. 
Review methods 
We searched the scientific literature for studies comparing ultra‐radical and standard surgery for women with advanced ovarian cancer. We looked for randomised controlled trials, which are regarded as the best type of study, and for non‐randomised studies that were analysed using methods that allow for differences between the groups of women receiving different types of surgery. 
Key results 
We identified three non‐randomised studies. The evidence is very limited and uncertain for all results since women were chosen to undergo each type of treatment, rather than randomly allocated, so there is a very high (critical) risk of bias in these types of studies. 
In two studies (397 women), women who had radical surgery to remove the tumour may have 18% to 57% less chance of death compared to women who had standard surgery. The results were similar for women with more‐extensive disease. There were very few deaths within 30 days of surgery. There may be less chance of disease progression with radical surgery. 
One study compared radical versus standard surgery associated with both upfront primary (tumour removed before starting chemotherapy) and interval debulking (tumour removed between chemotherapy sessions) surgery on death, but the comparison was not fair and there was high risk of bias for reporting of outcomes. 
One study (203 women) found that women who had radical procedures as part of upfront primary debulking surgery may have 8% to 58% less chance of disease progression or death compared to women who had standard surgery. The results were similar when including only the 139 women with more‐extensive disease (where risk was 18% to 67% lower). 
One analysis (527 women) merging radical surgery groups in one study found that women who underwent ultra‐radical procedures (using both upfront primary and interval debulking surgical procedures) may be associated with 11% to 60% increased chance of disease progression or death than those who received standard surgery. 
All studies were at very high (critical) risk of bias and we were very unsure about the evidence. We included relatively few women due to our stringent inclusion criteria. Studies either did not report or inadequately reported death, side effects or quality of life. 
Main conclusions and certainty in the evidence 
Although some of these results may suggest that survival may be better in women receiving upfront primary ultra‐radical surgery rather than standard surgery, extreme caution is required with interpretation, as the studies were not well designed or analysed, and thus the effects could even be in the opposite direction. 
