Is evacuation proctogram still the reference standard for diagnosis of posterior pelvic floor disorders in women with obstructed defaecation syndrome? 
The issue 
Obstructed defaecation syndrome is a sensation of obstruction during attempts to empty the bowel, a feeling of incomplete bowel emptying, or the need to use a finger to splint the perineum/vagina or insert into the rectum to remove stool. This can cause embarrassment and frustration, leading to an adverse effect on quality of life. Different imaging techniques exist to examine women with these symptoms. The most commonly performed technique currently used is called evacuation proctography (EP). This test can cause embarrassment, as it requires the woman to have a large amount of a porridge‐like substance introduced via the back passage and then she has to sit on a commode and open her bowels whilst X‐ray images are being taken by the radiologist. 
Why is this review important? 
Other imaging techniques to assess women with these symptoms are available, and most of them are less embarrassing. However, it remains unclear how good these imaging techniques are in diagnosing the conditions that cause these symptoms. To be able to provide evidence for potential use of these less embarrassing imaging techniques, existing data of previously‐published studies reporting the accuracy (the ability to detect and exclude a specific disorder) of these imaging techniques need to be analysed. 
How was this review conducted? 
We searched the available literature on 18 December 2019. We selected studies that assessed the performance of magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) or pelvic floor ultrasound, or both, and EP in women with symptoms of obstructed defaecation. We assessed the quality of the included studies, as well as possible sources that might influence the performance of imaging techniques. We conducted statistical analysis by assessing all available imaging techniques equally, in the absence of a reference standard, to calculate the test accuracy of all imaging techniques under evaluation. 
What are the findings? 
We included 39 studies covering 2483 women in the meta‐analysis. EP was found to have the highest ability to correctly detect most conditions causing symptoms of obstructed defaecation; none of the other diagnostic tests met the criteria to replace EP. MRI and transperineal ultrasound (TPUS) met the criteria for a triage test. They are better able to correctly identify healthy patients than EP. This means that a positive test result suggests the presence of the disease, as the test rarely gives positive results in healthy women, and avoids further testing. The results of the other ultrasound techniques were of too low a quality of evidence to draw conclusions. 
