Medicines for children with gastro‐oesophageal reflux
Review question 
Most babies grow out of their symptoms of reflux as they eat more solid food and spend more time upright, and as the length of the oesophagus grows, but do medicines help to make them more comfortable while this is happening? Older children can have heartburn, just like adults. Which treatment works best for them? 
Background 
Gastro‐oesophageal reflux happens when stomach contents come back up into the food pipe (oesophagus). This can be a normal event ('functional reflux'), but in some children, and in many babies, it can happen a lot, or it can cause symptoms such as pain, weight loss or other problems (e.g. ear infection, cough, even pauses in breathing). If this happens, the condition can be labelled as gastro‐oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). Sometimes the oesophagus becomes inflamed—a condition known as 'oesophagitis.' 
Current medicines (e.g. Gaviscon Infant®) aim to thicken stomach contents, neutralise stomach acid (ranitidine, omeprazole, lansoprazole) or help the stomach to empty faster (domperidone). We looked at all available studies to try to find out whether any of the medicines currently used for reflux can help babies and children. We wanted to know whether these medicines make babies and children feel better, or whether test results (such as healing of the lining of the oesophagus, assessed through endoscopy (a small camera passed down the food pipe), or lowering of the amount of acidity in the oesophagus, assessed using a pH probe over 24 hours) get better when these medicines are given. 
Study characteristics 
We included all studies (randomised controlled trials) comparing one type of medicine against another, or against an inactive medicine (placebo). We carefully looked at study results and tried to assess those that would be important to doctors, nurses and parents. We found a lot of differences between studies, and the small numbers of children included in the studies, the short follow‐up provided and differing outcomes made combining the data (meta‐analysis) in a meaningful way difficult. 
