Psychological therapies for post‐traumatic stress disorder and substance use disorder
Who may be interested in this review? 
• Individuals with post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) and substance use disorder (SUD) and their families and friends. 
• Healthcare providers for individuals with PTSD and SUD.
Why is this review important? 
Many people have PTSD or SUD. Both conditions can impact everyday functioning. A number of different psychological therapies are successful at treating PTSD and SUD when they occur separately. However, PTSD and SUD often occur together, and it may be harder to treat individuals with both PTSD and SUD. A number of psychological therapies have been developed to treat people with both PTSD and SUD, but it is not clear how effective these therapies are. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
We sought to find out whether psychological therapies are effective in treating people with PTSD and SUD in comparison to control conditions and other psychological therapies. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched scientific databases to find all published and unpublished studies of psychological therapies to treat people with PTSD and SUD up to 11 March 2015. We included 14 studies with 1506 participants. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
The evidence showed that individual trauma‐focused psychological therapy delivered alongside SUD therapies was more effective in reducing PTSD compared to treatment as usual. This result was found both straight after treatment and at long‐term follow‐up. However, SUD severity only declined at long‐term follow‐up. More people dropped out of the trauma‐focused therapy compared with treatment as usual. Overall, the benefits of trauma‐focused treatment were small. 
We found little evidence for the benefit of individual‐ or group‐based non‐trauma‐focused psychological therapies. For group‐based therapies, we found that substance use was reduced post‐treatment when participants were offered a full course of 25 sessions of the therapy 'Seeking Safety', which was delivered in a group setting. However, this positive effect did not continue at later follow‐up points. The level of drop‐out was high across all studies. 
We graded the quality of evidence as low to very low. This review includes a small number of studies. Some included studies were poorly designed, and most studies were small. There was also considerable variation in the way that the therapies and control therapies were delivered. It is likely that participants in the included studies received a range of other stabilising interventions alongside trauma‐focused treatment, and we found no evidence to support the delivery of trauma‐focused therapies without SUD‐focused therapies. It is therefore possible that our findings will change as further evidence of higher quality is accumulated. Healthcare providers should exercise caution when considering whether to provide therapies described in this review. 
