Proton radiation therapy versus conventional radiation treatment (i.e. photon radiation) for the treatment of chordoma 
What is the issue?Chordoma is a rare tumour that can grow at any location in the spine. Because some of the locations are difficult to reach, some of the tumour may be left behind, even after aggressive surgery. When this happens, radiation to the postoperative area can help reduce the chance of the tumour coming back. Given the closeness to the spinal cord and other important organs, special radiation techniques are required to maximise tumour control, while minimising harm to normal tissues in the body. 
Why is this review important?At the time of this review, there is a lack of evidence to confirm a benefit with proton therapy compared to conventional photon radiation treatment. However, it is important to note that this review found a number of delivery techniques for both proton and photon therapy. As evidence comparing the latest techniques for proton and photon therapy emerges, we will update this review. 
The aim of the review:The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether proton therapy is more effective than photon therapy for improving local control, and reducing mortality, recurrence, and treatment‐related toxicity. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
What are the main findings?We included six studies that enrolled 187 adults with chordoma, four of which we included in a meta‐analysis. We are uncertain whether proton radiation therapy compared to conventional photon radiation treatment improves local control, because our confidence in the evidence was very low (2 observational studies, 39 participants). We are uncertain whether proton therapy compared to photon therapy reduces mortality (4 observational studies, 65 participants), recurrence (4 observational studies, 94 participants), or treatment‐related toxicity (1 observational study, 33 participants). 
Quality of the Evidence:We found very low‐certainty evidence for all outcomes due to high risk of bias in all the included observational studies, very small sample sizes, and varying ranges in the duration of participants' follow‐up period between studies. 
Authors' conclusions:From the currently available evidence, we do not know if proton therapy, used for adults with chordoma, is associated with clinically appreciable benefits and acceptable harms. 
