Non‐pharmacological interventions for assisting the induction of anaesthesia in children
Background 
The initial process of giving general anaesthesia (i.e. induction of anaesthesia) to children can be distressing for them and their parents. Children can be given a sedative medicine (premedication) to drink such as midazolam before anaesthesia is induced in order to help the child relax. However these drugs can have undesirable effects, such as possible airway obstruction before anaesthesia begins and during recovery. In addition behaviour changes may occur after the operation. Some non‐drug alternatives have been tested to see if they could help children relax and co‐operate at the beginning of their anaesthesia. This review aims to assess the effects of non‐drug interventions such as hypnosis, acupuncture and video games in helping with the beginning of general anaesthesia in children 
Key findings 
We included 28 trials (2681 children under the age of 18 years and or their parents) with a large number of interventions (17) assessed. 
The presence of parents at induction of the child's anaesthesia has been the most commonly investigated intervention (eight trials), but has not been shown to reduce anxiety or distress in children, or increase their co‐operation during induction of anaesthesia. 
Although parents should not be actively discouraged from being present if they prefer to do so, equally parents should not be encouraged to be present at their child's induction if they prefer not to do so. 
Most commonly other interventions are given to the child (e.g. video games or hypnosis) but sometimes the intervention is given to the parent. One study of acupuncture for parents found that the parent was less anxious, and the child was more co‐operative, at induction of anaesthesia. Another study of giving parents information, in the form of pamphlets or videos, failed to show an effect. In other studies looking at interventions for children, clowns or clown doctors, a quiet environment, video games and computer packages (but not music therapy) each showed benefits such as improved co‐operation in the children. 
Quality of the evidence 
Many of the studies were of poor quality and too small to provide clear answers to the study question. However potentially promising non‐pharmacological interventions such as parental acupuncture; clowns/clown doctors; playing videos of the child's choice during induction, pre‐operative hypnosis and hand‐held video games require further testing in future studies. Non‐drug interventions that might help parents relax need further study, as there is some evidence that more relaxed parents may improve their child's anaesthesia induction experience. 
