Band ligation versus sclerotherapy for primary prophylaxis of oesophageal varices in children 
Background 
Portal hypertension is defined as an increase in the blood pressure within a system of veins (a type of blood vessel) called the portal venous system, which drains blood from the gastrointestinal tract (gut) and spleen into the liver. Portal hypertension commonly accompanies advanced liver disease and often gives rise to life‐threatening complications, including haemorrhage (bleeding) from oesophageal (gullet) and gastrointestinal varices (enlarged or swollen veins). 
In adults, numerous randomised clinical trials (studies where people are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) have demonstrated benefits of medicines called non‐selective beta‐blockers and endoscopic variceal ligation (where an enlarged vein is tied off or ligated by a rubber band) on the risk of first variceal haemorrhage. These treatments are used as primary prophylaxis (preventing or increasing resistance to disease that has not occurred) in adults, but it is unknown whether they are of benefit or cause harm when used in children and adolescents. Sclerotherapy (the endoscopic injection of tissue irritants that cause obliteration of blood vessels) is the only endoscopic prophylactic option currently available in infants weighing less than 10 kg of body weight (because of the size). 
Aims 
We aimed to conduct a systematic review of randomised clinical trials to assess the benefits and harms of band ligation versus sclerotherapy for prevention of oesophageal variceal bleeding in children with chronic liver disease or portal vein thrombosis (blockage or narrowing of the portal vein (the blood vessel that brings blood to the liver from the intestines) by a blood clot). We searched for trials to 27 April 2020. 
Key results 
We found no randomised clinical trials for inclusion in this systematic review. Accordingly, we lack results from randomised clinical trials to conclude if band ligation compared with sclerotherapy may be beneficial or not in children and adolescents with oesophageal varices. There is a need for well‐designed trials that should include important clinical outcomes such as death, quality of life, failure to control of variceal bleeding, and side effects. 
