Two different surgeries to treat near‐sightedness
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether laser‐assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK) surgery is better than laser‐assisted in‐situ keratomileusis (LASIK) surgery for treating near‐sightedness (myopia). Cochrane researchers collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found four studies. 
Key messages  It is uncertain whether LASEK or LASIK is better for the treatment of myopia. 
What did this review study?  Near‐sightedness (known as myopia) is a condition in which it is difficult to see objects in the distance clearly. Myopia is the most common type of refractive error (inaccurate focusing of light on the retina of the eye) worldwide. Myopia can be treated with spectacles or contact lenses. Surgical correction of myopia includes refractive surgery such as laser‐assisted subepithelial keratectomy (LASEK) and laser‐assisted in‐situ keratomileusis (LASIK). Both procedures use a laser to shape the cornea (front part of the eye) to remove refractive error and provide clear vision without spectacles or contact lenses. 
What are the main results of the review?  Cochrane researchers found four relevant studies. Two of these four studies were from China, one study was from Turkey and for one study it was unclear where it was from. The people taking part in the studies were men and women between the ages of 18 and 60 years with mild to moderate myopia. 
These studies provide only very low‐certainty evidence comparing LASEK and LASIK. It is unclear if either of these two methods are better for vision, or quality of life. There was no information on how painful the procedures were. There was some limited information on harmful effects. Serious problems appeared to be rare. In one study, more people in the LASEK group had refractive regression (return of the myopia) and more people in the LASIK group had over‐correction (shift from near‐sighted to far‐sighted). 
How up‐to‐date is this review?  Cochrane researchers searched for studies that had been published up to 24 October 2016. 
