Internal dressings for healing perianal abscess cavities
What are perianal abscesses and how are they treated? 
A perianal abscess is a collection of pus under the skin around the anus (back passage); perianal abscesses are common, and usually due to an infection in an anal gland. In the UK, the standard treatment is to have an operation under anaesthetic to cut the skin and drain the pus. This prevents the infection spreading and relieves pain in the affected area. An internal dressing (otherwise known as a "pack") is placed inside the abscess cavity, initially to stop bleeding. The pack is changed by nurses in the community regularly until the cavity has healed. It is thought that packing the cavity reduces the chance of the abscess recurring. 
Some patients go on to develop a fistula after a perianal abscess. A fistula is an abnormal communication between the anus and the skin next to it and a small hole next to the anus discharges pus intermittently. Fistulae can take many months and several operations to heal. This review aims to assess the effects of packs on healing perianal abscess cavities, particularly the time it took for the cavities to heal, and the amount of pain patients experienced. 
What we found 
After extensive searching to find relevant studies, we found only two randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that were eligible for this review (RCTs provide more robust results than other trial types). The studies were small with a total of 64 participants randomised, all over 18 years of age, with a perianal abscess. In the studies, participants received either packing by community nursing teams or no packing. Participants in the non‐packing group managed their own wounds by using absorbant dressings to cover the area with no internal dressing. Participants were seen fortnightly until the cavity had healed. 
It is not clear whether time to complete wound healing is affected by packing of cavity (and what evidence exists is very low quality). There was very low quality evidence that packing made no difference to wound pain at the first dressing change. There was very low quality evidence that on judging the wound pain over the preceding two weeks, participants in the packing group had experienced more pain that those in the non‐packing group. 
