Support for breastfeeding mothers
What is the issue? 
The World Health Organization recommends that infants should be breastfed exclusively until six months of age with breastfeeding continuing as an important part of the infant’s diet until he or she is at least two years old. We know that breastfeeding is good for the short‐term and long‐term health of both infants and their mothers. Babies are less likely to develop infections in the digestive tract, lungs or airways, and ears. They are also less likely to become overweight and develop diabetes later in life. The mothers are less likely to develop diabetes and to experience breast or ovarian cancer. Many mothers may stop breastfeeding before they want to as a result of the problems they encounter. Good care and support may help women solve these problems so that they can continue to breastfeed. 
Why is this important? 
By knowing what kind of support can be provided to help mothers with breastfeeding, we can help them solve any problems and continue to breastfeed for as long as they want to, wherever they live. Stopping breastfeeding early may cause disappointment and distress for mothers and health problems for themselves and their infants. Support can be in the form of giving reassurance, praise, information, and the opportunity for women to discuss problems and ask questions as needed. This review looked at whether providing extra organised support for breastfeeding mothers would help mothers to continue to breastfeed when compared with standard maternity care. We were interested in support from health professionals including midwives, nurses and doctors, or from trained lay workers such as community health workers and volunteers. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence on 29 February 2016 and identified a further 31 new trials for inclusion in the review. This updated review now includes 100 randomised controlled studies involving more than 83,246 women. The 73 trials that contributed to the analyses were from 29 countries and involved 74,656 women. Some 62% of the women were from high‐income countries, 34% from middle income countries and 4% from low‐income countries 
All forms of extra organised support analyzed together showed an increase in the length of time women continued to breastfeed, either with or without introducing any other types of liquids or foods. This meant that fewer women stopped any breastfeeding or exclusively breastfeeding (moderate quality evidence) before four to six weeks and before six months. Both trained volunteers and doctors and nurses had a positive impact on breastfeeding. 
Factors that may have contributed to the success for women who exclusively breastfed were face‐to‐face contact (rather than contact by telephone), volunteer support, a specific schedule of four to eight contacts and high numbers of women who began breastfeeding in the community or population (background rates). 
The term 'high‐quality evidence' means that we are confident that further studies would provide similar findings. No outcome was assessed as being 'high‐quality'. The term 'moderate‐quality evidence' means that we found wide variations in the findings with some conflicting results in the studies in this review. New studies of different kinds of support for exclusive breastfeeding may change our understanding of how to help women to continue with exclusive breastfeeding. 
