Transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) for managing pain in people with sickle cell disease 
Review question 
What is the role of transcutaneous electrical nerve stimulation (TENS) in managing pain in people with sickle cell disease (SCD)? What are the adverse effects of TENS in people with SCD? 
Background. 
SCD is an inherited disorder affecting red blood cells. These cells contain haemoglobin which transports oxygen. The diseased red blood cells block the blood vessels and result in a diminished blood supply, leading to less oxygen reaching affected organs and causing episodes of pain and organ damage. Severe pain requires medication and even hospitalisation. Prescribed painkillers can have several side effects, including drug dependency. Hence researchers are looking for options other than drug treatments for people with SCD. 
TENS is a small battery‐powered electro‐medical device that produces low‐voltage current and is used for pain relief in various painful conditions. It is safe, inexpensive and easy to use. Since mixed responses have been seen in different painful conditions, we felt the need to produce a Cochrane Review with a comprehensive search, to determine the effect of TENS for managing pain in people with SCD. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 26 February 2020.
Study characteristics 
We searched for well‐designed trials to see the effect of TENS compared to 'sham' TENS in people with SCD for relieving pain, reducing the intensity of pain, reducing the frequency of pain episodes, making a difference to the use of painkillers, improving quality of life and for assessing any adverse effects. 
We only found one trial (22 participants aged between 12 and 27 years). The participants were graded into four groups according to how severe their pain was. On the first visit, the participants from different groups were chosen randomly to receive either TENS or ‘sham’ TENS treatment. For a further crisis of the same severity participants were given the alternative intervention to the first one. For those experiencing a pain episode of a different severity, it is not clear which treatment they were given. 
Neither the participant nor the researcher were aware of which treatment was received.
Key results 
30 episodes (across 22 participants) of TENS treatment and 30 of 'sham' TENS treatment were analysed. Due to low‐quality data and issues with the trial design, we can only report in a descriptive way without any formal analysis. Caution should be used in interpreting these results. In the included trial no difference was found in the rating of pain on a scale of 1 to 10 at the end of one hour and four hours between the TENS and 'sham' TENS treatment groups. There was no difference between groups as to how much pain medication was used. Given the very low quality of the evidence, we are also uncertain whether TENS improves overall satisfaction as compared to 'sham' TENS. A minor adverse effect of itching was reported by only one person receiving TENS, whereas two people receiving 'sham' TENS reported a worsening of pain with the intervention. Since there is only one included trial with very low‐quality evidence, we cannot state whether TENS makes any difference to managing pain in people with SCD. 
Quality of the evidence 
The trial publication did not clearly report how the randomised list for allocating the participants to the two treatment groups was generated, therefore, we assessed this as having a high risk of bias. The reporting and analysis was based on only the total number pain events and not the number of people reporting pain episodes. It is unclear from this report how many participants were crossed over from TENS to 'sham' TENS treatment group. The first treatment may have an effect on the subsequent treatment and there is no clear data regarding the cross over process from one treatment group to the other. Hence we conclude that the trial has a high risk of bias and the results are hard to interpret. 
