Review question  We evaluated the evidence about whether people with abnormal coagulation (poor blood clotting) require a plasma transfusion prior to insertion of a lumbar puncture needle or epidural catheter, and if so what is the degree of abnormal coagulation at which a plasma transfusion is required.  Background  People with abnormal coagulation may require a lumbar puncture or epidural anaesthesia. A lumbar puncture is usually performed by inserting a needle between the bones (vertebrae) of the spine in the lower back into the fluid surrounding the spinal cord (the bundle of nerves that runs down the spine and connects the brain with the body). Lumbar punctures are performed either to obtain a sample of this fluid or to administer treatment into the fluid (chemotherapy or an anaesthetic). The lumbar puncture needle is removed immediately after any fluid samples have been taken or treatment has been administered. An epidural involves inserting a larger diameter needle than a lumbar puncture needle. The epidural needle passes through the same tissues as the lumbar puncture needle but stops short of penetrating the sac of fluid surrounding the spinal cord. Instead any treatment is injected into the space just outside the sac of fluid (called the epidural space). A small tube (an epidural catheter) is often passed through the epidural needle and left in position so that additional local anaesthetic medicines can be given. Current practice in many countries is to give plasma transfusions to prevent serious bleeding due to the procedure if blood tests to assess clotting are abnormal. Although the risk of bleeding appears to be very low, if bleeding does occur, it can be very serious. Correction of clotting abnormalities with a plasma transfusion is not without risks of its own, and it is unclear whether this practice is beneficial or harmful. People may be exposed to the risks of a plasma transfusion without any obvious clinical benefit. The risk that a plasma transfusion can cause serious harm, such as transmission of an infection or severe breathing problems, is very low.  Study characteristics  We searched scientific databases for clinical studies (randomised controlled trials and well designed non‐randomised studies) of people of any age with abnormal coagulation requiring a lumbar puncture or epidural anaesthesia. The evidence is current to 9 January 2017. In this review, we found no relevant studies.  Key results  There are no results because we found no relevant studies. The risk from bleeding after a lumbar puncture or epidural is very low and a very large study (with approximately 50,000 people) would be needed to know whether giving plasma transfusions before having these procedures is helpful. 