How effective are strategies to improve the way health and social care professional groups work together? 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether strategies to improve interprofessional collaboration (the process by which different health and social care professional groups work together), can positively impact the delivery of care to patients. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question, and found nine studies with 5540 participants. 
Key messages 
Strategies to improve interprofessional collaboration between health and social care professionals may slightly improve patient functional status, professionals' adherence to recommended practices, and the use of healthcare resources. Due to the lack of clear evidence, we are uncertain whether the strategies improved patient‐assessed quality of care, continuity of care, or collaborative working. 
What was studied in this review? 
The extent to which different health and social care professionals work well together affects the quality of the care that they provide. If there are problems in how these professionals communicate and interact with each other, this can lead to problems in patient care. Interprofessional collaboration practice‐based interventions are strategies that are put into place in healthcare settings to improve interactions and work processes between two or more types of healthcare professionals. This review studied different interprofessional collaboration interventions, compared to usual care or an alternative intervention, to see if they improved patient care or collaboration. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found nine relevant studies across primary, secondary, tertiary and community care settings. All studies were conducted in high‐income countries (Australia, Belgium, Sweden, UK and USA) and lasted for up to 12 months. Most of the studies were well conducted, although some studies reported that many participants dropped out. The studies evaluated different methods of interprofessional collaboration, namely externally facilitated interprofessional activities (e.g. collaborative planning/reflection activities led by an individual who is not part of the group/team), interprofessional rounds, interprofessional meetings, and interprofessional checklists. 
