Treatment of early stage Hodgkin lymphoma
Background 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is a malignancy of the lymphatic system. It occurs in children and adults, but it is more common in the third decade of life. It is one of the most curable forms of cancer. There are four stages of HL, stages I and II are considered as early stage HL and stages III and IV as advanced stage. Using risk factors such as presence or absence of bulky disease and presence or absence of B‐symptoms, like night sweats or fever, early stage HL is further classified into early favourable and early unfavourable stages. Treatment options are chemotherapy, radiotherapy or both. Radiotherapy may have, more treatment‐ related side effects than chemotherapy, including second malignancies; this applies at least to the large treatment fields used in the past. However, with modern, very limited treatment fields, the risks of long‐term side effects caused by radiotherapy have been reduced significantly. 
Review question 
This systematic review compares overall survival (OS) and progression free survival (PFS) in adults with early stage HL after receiving chemotherapy alone or chemotherapy plus radiotherapy. 
Study characteristics 
We searched important medical databases such as the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and MEDLINE. Two review authors independently screened, summarised and analysed the results. This led to the inclusion of seven randomised controlled trials involving with 2564 patients. 
The evidence provided is current to December 2016.
Key results 
For the comparison of chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy plus radiotherapy with the same number of chemotherapy cycles in both arms, this systematic review found no evidence for a difference regarding OS between the interventions, however, two included trials had potential other high risk of bias due to a high number of patients not receiving radiotherapy as planned beforehand. After excluding these trials in a further analysis, OS was superior in adults receiving chemotherapy plus radiotherapy than in those receiving chemotherapy alone. PFS was also superior in adults receiving chemotherapy plus radiotherapy. Most trials reported adverse events (AEs), but in different ways. Because of insufficient comparable data we focused on adverse events considered of particular interest. For infection‐ related mortality, second cancer‐ related mortality and cardiac disease‐ related mortality, there was no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. For complete response rate (CRR) there was no evidence for a difference between treatment groups either. 
For the comparison of chemotherapy alone and chemotherapy plus radiotherapy with different numbers of chemotherapy cycles in the arms, OS was reported in one trial only. The use of chemotherapy alone may improve OS compared to chemotherapy plus radiotherapy. There was no evidence for a difference between treatment groups regarding PFS. After excluding one trial with patients not receiving the planned therapy the results showed that chemotherapy plus radiotherapy improved PFS. For infection‐ related mortality, second cancer‐ related mortality and cardiac disease‐ related mortality, there is no evidence for a difference between treatment groups. CR was not reported. 
Quality of evidence 
For the same number of chemotherapy cycles in both arms, we judged the quality of evidence for OS and PFS as moderate, for AEs and CR as low. 
For different numbers of chemotherapy cycles in the arms, we considered the quality of evidence for OS, PFS and AEs to be low. 
