Nitrates for reducing death and cardiac complications in participants during non‐cardiac surgery 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on effects of nitrates on death and cardiac complications in people undergoing non‐cardiac surgery (that is, surgery on any part of the body except the heart). 
Background 
Cardiac complications (heart diseases and problems) are not uncommon in people undergoing non‐cardiac surgery, especially among those with heart disease. Furthermore, anaesthesia and surgery can put stress on the cardiovascular system. The incidence of cardiac events can be up to 50% in non‐cardiac surgery, especially for some seriously ill people. Nitrates increase the delivery of blood and the supply of oxygen to the heart, improving cardiac function and reducing cardiac problems. Nitrates are also used in the operating room. However, the effects of nitrates in reducing the incidence of death and cardiac problems with non‐cardiac surgery remains unclear. 
Study characteristics 
We identified randomized controlled trials evaluating the benefits and side effects of nitrates by searching major databases for original articles until June 2014. We included 27 studies (8244 participants) in this review. All participants were older than 15 years. Most trial participants had low to mild risk of perioperative cardiac complications. 
We reran the search in January 2016. We added three potential new studies of interest to the list of ‘Studies awaiting classification' and will incorporate them into our formal review findings for the review update. 
Key results 
We examined the following results: death for any reason, angina pectoris (sensation of chest pain due to a restriction in blood supply to heart muscle), acute myocardial infarction (stop in the flow of blood to part of the heart, causing damage to the heart muscle), cardiac ischaemia (restriction in blood supply to heart tissue), acute heart failure (loss of heart function), cardiac arrhythmia (irregular heartbeat), cardiac arrest (sudden stop in effective blood circulation due to failure of the heart) and increased troponin (a biomarker of heart disorder). We also evaluated adverse events, such as low blood pressure, headache, fast heartbeat and nausea and vomiting. We found no significant differences between nitrates and controls, with the exception of nicorandil versus placebo (one study, 248 participants). Nicorandil appeared to decrease the incidence of cardiac ischaemia. 
Quality of the evidence 
We used GRADE criteria to assess the overall quality of evidence as very low for the main results owing to risk of bias, insufficient data and imprecision. 
