Health‐improving interventions helping unemployed job seekers to get a job
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out if it is possible to help unemployed people to get a job by improving their health. 
Decreased health and declined work ability may be reasons for becoming unemployed. Also, unemployment, and especially prolonged unemployment, may in turn cause poor health and well‐being. It is not known if unemployed people could be helped to get a job by interventions that improve health. 
Key messages 
Interventions that combine therapeutic methods and job‐search training probably slightly increase the number of unemployed people who get a job compared to those who have no intervention. To increase the certainty of the evidence, we still need more high‐quality studies, including studies where interventions are clearly targeted for short‐term or long‐term unemployed. 
What was studied in the review? 
We included 15 randomised controlled trials involving 6397 participants. Interventions included therapeutic methods such as cognitive behavioural therapy, physical exercise, and health‐related advice and counselling, or they were combined interventions that included therapeutics and job‐search training. We used the data from these studies about the number of unemployed participants who obtained a job. We also collected data about general and mental health. There were no studies that reported work ability outcomes. 
Results showed that combined interventions (therapeutic interventions combined with job‐search training) probably slightly increase the number of unemployed people who get a job compared to those who do not follow an intervention.Therapeutic interventions may increase the number of unemployed people who get a job compared to those who do not follow an intervention but the evidence is very uncertain. Therapeutic interventions probably make no difference to mental and general health compared to no intervention. 
How up to date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to August 2019.
