Drug treatment for spinal muscular atrophy type I
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to look at the effects of drug treatments on spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) type I, in terms of age at death or full‐time ventilation and the ability to reach motor milestones, e.g. rolling, sitting or standing, within one year after beginning treatment, and any adverse events. 
Key messages 
Nusinersen probably increases ventilation‐free and overall survival in children with SMA type I. Nusinersen may improve the proportion of infants achieving motor milestones. Adverse events and serious adverse events are probably not more common with nusinersen injection than with a sham procedure. 
It is uncertain whether riluzole has any effect in SMA type I, based on the limited available evidence. 
What was studied in the review? 
SMA is a disorder with onset in childhood and adolescence and leads to increasing muscle weakness. SMA type I, also known as Werdnig‐Hoffman disease, is the most severe form of SMA and begins before the age of six months. Untreated children with SMA type I will never be able to sit without support and in general die or develop respiratory insufficiency and need non‐invasive ventilation before they reach the age of two years. 
At the time of the previous versions of the review there was no known treatment to slow down or cure SMA type I. We updated the review to include emerging evidence. 
Cochrane review authors collected relevant studies and found two trials. Both studies were funded by pharmaceutical companies. One trial, in 121 infants with SMA type I, studied nusinersen, which is an antisense oligonucleotide drug, given by injection into the spinal canal. The researchers compared the effects of nusinersen with a sham procedure in the control group. This trial stopped early because results showed that nusinersen improved the proportion of infants achieving motor milestones. The other trial compared riluzole to placebo and involved 10 infants with SMA type I. This trial was stopped prematurely because the pharmaceutical company withdrew funding. 
What are the main results of the review 
Results were not all reported at the same follow‐up point, as the trial was stopped before some participants completed the planned follow‐up. Nusinersen probably reduced the risk of death or progression to full‐time ventilation (assisted breathing) by 47% compared to the control group. The evidence is also moderately certain that the percentage of children with a response on objective clinical assessments of motor function was higher in the nusinersen‐treated group than the sham procedure group (51% versus 0% on the Hammersmith Infant Neurological Examination‐Section 2 (HINE‐2) and 71% versus 3% on the Children's Hospital of Philadelphia Infant Test of Neuromuscular Disorders (CHOP INTEND)). Infants treated with nusinersen are probably also more likely to reach developmental milestones: 16 of the 73 treated infants achieved head control, six achieved independent sitting, seven achieved the ability to roll over, and one achieved the ability to stand; none of the 37 infants in the control group achieved any of these milestones. 
There was probably little difference between the nusinersen‐treated and control group in the number of infants with adverse events; the majority experienced adverse events. Serious adverse events were probably no more common with nusinersen than with the sham procedure. 
One study compared riluzole treatment to placebo (an identical, but inactive treatment) in 10 children with SMA type I. The certainty of the evidence was very low, mainly because the study was too small to detect or rule out an effect. In this trial, all three children in the placebo group and four of the seven children in the riluzole group died within 12 months of the study. Three of the seven children treated with riluzole were still alive at the ages of 30, 48, and 64 months. None of the children in the riluzole or placebo group developed the ability to sit. The evidence can neither confirm nor rule out an effect of riluzole in children with SMA type I because of its small size and severe limitations. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to October 2018.
