Induction methods for women who have had a prior caesarean birth
What is the issue? 
Labour induction is a common procedure, carried out when it is judged to be safer for a baby to be born than to continue a pregnancy. When a woman who has had a caesarean in the past gives birth, current clinical practice supports helping her to have a vaginal birth. However, there is a higher risk of complications from induction for women who have previously had a caesarean section. 
Methods for induction include: prostaglandin medication (including oral or vaginal prostaglandins E2 (PGE2) or misoprostol); mifepristone; mechanical methods (including Foley catheters and double‐balloon catheters); nitric oxide donors (such as isosorbide mononitrate); and oxytocin. This review looked at the harms and benefits of different methods for induction of labour in women with a prior caesarean birth, if induction of labour was required in their current pregnancy. 
Why is this important? 
Lots of women have caesareans: across the world between one in four and one in two babies are born by caesarean section. Many women go on to have another pregnancy, and we want to know how to deliver these babies safely. Women with a prior caesarean birth have an increased risk of uterine scar rupture, particularly when labour is induced. This is a serious complication, often leading to negative outcomes for mother and child, such as hysterectomy, genitourinary tract injury, and postpartum blood transfusions for the mother, and neurological impairment or even death for the child. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for studies on 31 August 2016. Eight small randomised controlled trials are included in this updated review, with data from 707 women and babies. The studies compared different methods of inducing labour, so results could not be combined. 
There were design problems in all of the trials: women and health professionals knew which induction method was being used in seven out of eight trials, which may have affected clinical decisions. Women were left out of the analysis in some trials, and trials often did not report important outcomes (vaginal birth not achieved within 24 hours of induction, overstimulation of the uterus with changes to the baby's heart rate, caesarean section, serious illness or death of the baby, serious illness or death of the mother). 
The trials were too small to show clear differences. The quality of the evidence was very low, low, or moderate, because the trials were small and had high risk of bias. We cannot be certain about the results, and future research may show something different. 
