Accuracy of telehealth assessment for diagnosing dementia and mild cognitive impairment
Background 
Dementia is an illness in which memory and other thinking skills deteriorate to the point that someone can no longer manage their daily activities without assistance. If the memory and thinking problems are milder, so that independent living is not affected, the condition is described as mild cognitive impairment (MCI). Both conditions usually affect older people. It is considered important that people with dementia or MCI can get an accurate diagnosis at a time and place suitable for them so that they and their families can understand the problem and can access treatment and support. However millions of people with dementia around the world never get a diagnosis. There are many reasons for this, but one may be a lack of accessible diagnostic services, particularly for people in rural areas or those who find it difficult to travel. During the COVID‐19 pandemic, many face‐to‐face services were closed. Telehealth ‐ the use of information and communication technology (ICT) to provide health services at a distance may be a way to increase access to specialist assessment for people with suspected dementia who cannot easily get to clinics. However, it is important to be sure that increased accessibility does not come at the expense of accuracy of diagnosis. 
Review question 
We asked how accurate telehealth diagnoses of dementia and MCI were compared to diagnoses made when patients attend traditional clinics for a face‐to‐face assessment. 
What we did 
We searched databases of medical studies up to 4 November 2020 for studies in which people had two assessments for suspected dementia or MCI: one telehealth assessment and one conventional face‐to‐face assessment. Both assessments were done by specialists and took place within a month of each other. For the telehealth assessment, all contact between the patient and the diagnosing specialist had to have been done remotely, using ICT, but some of the information needed to make the diagnosis could be collected by other members of the healthcare team who saw the patient in person. We then assessed how closely the results of the telehealth assessments agreed with the face‐to‐face assessments. 
What we found 
We included three studies (136 participants) who had suspected dementia. One small study (16 participants) was conducted in veterans' homes in the USA; the other two studies were in community services in Australia. They all used videoconference systems for their telehealth assessments. All three studies aimed to make dementia diagnoses but only one also aimed to diagnose MCI. The quality of the studies was generally good. In two studies, nurses who saw the patients in person played a big role in gathering information used in both assessments, which could bias those studies towards close agreement between the assessments. 
The studies found that telehealth assessment correctly identified 80% to 100% of the people who were diagnosed with dementia at face‐to‐face assessment and also correctly identified 80% to 100% of people who did not have dementia. 
