Treatments for hereditary haemochromatosis
Background 
Hereditary haemochromatosis is an inherited genetic disorder (derived from one's parents) resulting in excessive iron accumulation in the body. Some people develop liver damage leading to liver failure, heart damage leading to heart failure, impotence (inability for a man to have an erection or orgasm), diabetes, arthritis (joint pain and swelling), and skin pigmentation (colouring) because of excessive iron accumulation. Several treatments are used to treat hereditary haemochromatosis but the best way is not clear. We searched for randomised clinical trials (well‐design clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) reported to March 2016. We included trials in which participants had not had a liver transplant. Apart from using standard Cochrane methods which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time (direct comparison), we planned to use an advanced method which allows comparison of the many different treatments which are individually compared in the trials (network meta‐analysis). However, because there was only one comparison, we used standard Cochrane methodology. 
Study characteristics 
We identified three trials. Two trials with 100 participants provided information on one or more outcomes (measures of how well the treatments worked). The trials compared phlebotomy (removal of blood or 'blood letting') versus erythrocytapheresis (removal of blood, separation of red cells (which carry oxygen in the blood), and return of the remaining parts of the blood). Two trials were conducted in people who had not undergone previous treatment for haemochromatosis. The trial that provided most data for this review excluded people with cancer, heart failure, and serious irregular heartbeats. 
Source of funding: the two trials that provided data for this review were funded by parties with no vested interest in the results; the source of funding of the third trial was not reported. 
Key results 
There were no deaths or serious complications in the short term in either group in the only trial that reported this information. There was no evidence of any difference in the percentage of people with any complications, the number of complications per person, and short‐term health‐related quality of life (a measure of a person's satisfaction with their life and health) between the treatments. None of the trials reported deaths beyond one year, health‐related quality of life beyond one year, liver transplantation, severe liver damage, liver failure, liver cancer, diabetes, heart failure, or stroke during the long term. There is currently insufficient evidence to determine whether erythrocytapheresis is beneficial or harmful compared with phlebotomy. Erythrocytapheresis requires special equipment, while phlebotomy does not. So, phlebotomy remains the treatment of choice in people with hereditary haemochromatosis even though there is no evidence from randomised clinical trials that blood letting is beneficial. Having said this, a randomised clinical trial including no treatment is unlikely to be conducted. 
