What are the benefits and risks of beds, mattresses and overlays for preventing and treating pressure ulcers? 
The overview presents a lot of data from randomised controlled trials and contains an advanced analysis called 'network meta‐analysis'. The analysis allows comparisons of all types of support surfaces for preventing or treating pressure ulcers. This interactive tool may help with navigation of the datahttps://stopthepressure.shinyapps.io/Cochrane_support_surface_reviews/. 
Key messages 
Static air mattresses or overlays, alternating pressure air mattresses or overlays, and gel pads used on operating tables may be better than foam mattresses for preventing pressure ulcers. 
Compared with foam mattresses, alternating pressure air mattresses or overlays probably result in health benefits that outweigh their costs in preventing pressure ulcers. 
Static air mattresses or overlays may be better than foam mattresses for ulcer healing, but may cost more. 
It is unclear what the best treatment is for either preventing or treating pressure ulcers; what the effects of these treatment options are on people’s comfort and quality of life; and whether or not there are any unwanted effects. 
What are pressure ulcers? 
Pressure ulcers (also known as pressure sores or bed sores) are wounds to the skin and underlying tissue caused by prolonged pressure or rubbing. People who have mobility problems or who lie in bed for long periods are at risk of developing pressure ulcers. 
What did we want to find out? 
There are many types of beds, mattresses and overlays specifically designed for people with pressure ulcers. These can be made from a range of materials (such as foam, air cells and gel pads) and are divided into two groups: 
‐ reactive (static) surfaces that apply a constant pressure to the skin; and
‐ active (alternating pressure) surfaces that regularly redistribute the pressure under the body. 
We wanted to find out if different types of reactive and active surfaces:
‐ prevent pressure ulcers;
‐ help ulcers to heal;
‐ are comfortable and improve people’s quality of life;
‐ have health benefits that outweigh their costs; and
‐ have any unwanted effects.
We also wanted to find out what the best treatment options are for either preventing or healing pressure ulcers. 
What did we do? 
We searched for Cochrane Reviews that summarised the results of all available carefully designed studies (controlled trials) evaluating different beds, mattresses and overlays in preventing and treating pressure ulcers. A Cochrane Review provides a high level of evidence on the effectiveness of healthcare interventions. We summarised the results of these reviews in a single document (called an overview of reviews). 
