Interventions for preventing abuse of older people
Review question  Our aim was to identify if specific programs or strategies are useful to prevent or reduce abuse in older people (60 years and over). We looked to include studies that described the effect of these programs or strategies whether aimed at the elderly themselves or people (such as caregivers or nursing home staff) with whom they interact. 
Background 
Elder abuse – physical, psychological, sexual abuse, neglect and/or financial exploitation ‐ is common but often underreported. Elder abuse can be a single, or repeated act, or may be a lack of appropriate action. Elder abuse occurs within a relationship where there is an expectation of trust, but regrettably harm or distress is caused to the older person. The abuse can often come from someone who they know well or have relationship with such as a spouse, partner, family member, or friend. It can also be caused by service providers in institutions and healthcare settings. It is most likely to occur when staff have inadequate training and supervision, or lack sufficient resources to undertake their responsibilities. This is a global problem that affects millions of older people resulting in great economic costs to both the individuals and the healthcare system. Abuse can lead to poorer health, injuries and even premature death. 
Search date 
All databases were searched up to August 2015. Additional searches of the main databases were conducted between 30 August 2015 and 16 March 2016. 
Study characteristics  We found seven studies from our search of 19 databases. All together, the studies included 1924 elderly participants and 740 people (such as carers or nursing home staff) with whom they interact. These studies described methods of preventing or reducing elder abuse with elderly people. The studies included programs and strategies that took place in many different settings (home, community, institutions) although only in high‐income countries. The programs and strategies identified included methods to increase detection in clinical practice and community settings, victim support, increasing awareness of elder abuse and delivering training programs aimed at building skills in care providers. Most studies described changes in knowledge and attitudes, with very few measuring the occurrence or reoccurrence of abuse. The study durations ranged from six to 24 months. 
Key results 
The included studies suggest it is uncertain whether targeted educational interventions improve the knowledge of health and allied professionals and caregivers about elder abuse. It is unclear whether any improved knowledge actually leads to changes in the way they behave thereafter, and whether this leads to the elderly being abused less. Similarily, supporting and educating elderly victims of abuse appears to lead to more reporting of abuse, however it is unclear if the higher reporting meant more abuse occurred or a greater willingness to report the abuse as it occurred. 
None of the studies reported any unintended outcomes of these approaches.
Quality of the evidence  Most of the evidence was low or very low quality (we cannot assume the findings of these studies are true) and limits our understanding of what strategies or programs work best to decrease or prevent elder abuse. Many of the studies were unclear in the design, too small in size or not similar enough in their findings to have full confidence in the findings. 
