A review of which advocacy interventions work to help abused women, and under what circumstances, and which women are likely to benefit 
Background 
Partner abuse (domestic violence) is common worldwide. It includes coercive control, physical, sexual, economic, emotional and/or economic abuse. Trained people, known as advocates, can actively support abused women to make safety plans, cope with and take steps to reduce the abuse, and access community resources. This is known as advocacy. Advocacy can take many forms. 
Review question 
We wished to understand which advocacy interventions work to help abused women, under what circumstances, and which women may benefit. This is called a realist approach. It assumes that we often develop a superficial knowledge of how something happens (e.g. how advocacy works), based on simple measurements and observations. A realist approach tries to understand what is really happening at a deeper level by exploring different effects in different conditions. 
Methods 
We searched scientific literature worldwide up to January 2019 for any relevant studies.
Key findings 
We found 98 studies from 15 countries. Of the 88 core studies, 37 asked advocates about their views and experiences and seven asked abused women about advocacy (two of these also asked staff). The other 44 core studies helped us understand the way advocacy works and how effective it is. We included 10 additional studies that did not fit the original criteria but added useful information, as befitting a realist approach. Of these, three were randomised controlled trials (RCTs; a type of experiment in which participants are randomly allocated to two or more interventions), one was an intervention process evaluation, one was a qualitative (e.g. focus groups, interviews) study, two studies used mixed methods (a combination of qualitative and quantitative research) to explore women's experiences, two were surveys of women, and one was a mixed methods study of women and staff. We were unable to obtain the full texts of two studies that we thought might be core and three further relevant studies are still ongoing. 
Advocacy interventions varied considerably in duration, participating staff (e.g. nurses, psychologists, social workers), and setting (e.g. healthcare settings, domestic violence refuges or shelters). 
