Topical tacrolimus for atopic dermatitis
Background 
Atopic dermatitis (AD) (or atopic eczema) is a chronic skin condition that affects the quality of life of both adults and children. Topical corticosteroids (TCS) are the main ointments used for treatment, but there is a risk of side‐effects with their use, such as skin thinning. A class of drugs called topical calcineurin inhibitors, which include topical tacrolimus (and pimecrolimus), might provide an alternative to this problem, but since tacrolimus is a newer ointment compared with corticosteroids, there are still some questions about its effectiveness and safety. 
Review question 
Is tacrolimus ointment an effective and safe alternative to other treatments for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis (in children and adults)? 
Study characteristics 
We included 20 studies, with 5885 participants, in this review. We searched for studies until June 2015. We were interested in the physicians' assessment of improvement, the participants' self‐assessment, and any adverse effects. Other outcomes were by objective measures of improvement, such as SCORAD (SCORing Atopic Dermatitis, a tool for measuring atopic dermatitis severity) and the affected body surface area. 
Key results 
We found tacrolimus 0.1% to be better than low‐potency TCS on the face and neck areas and moderate‐potency TCS on the trunk and extremities. We evaluated the physician's assessment of pimecrolimus 1% and tacrolimus 0.03% in most of the studies. When compared with moderate‐to‐potent corticosteroids, there was a marginal benefit favouring tacrolimus 0.1% by the participant's self‐assessment and SCORAD. 
Combined results of 2 studies indicated that tacrolimus 0.03% more than doubled the chance of achieving improvement by the physician's assessment compared with mild TCS. Another study found tacrolimus 0.03% to be better than pimecrolimus 1% for the same outcome, while no difference was found on the body surface area of skin affected with disease. For the comparison with moderate‐to‐potent corticosteroids, we found no significant difference in most of the results, but in two studies, we found a slight difference favouring the corticosteroids group. 
Burning and itching were more frequent in those using tacrolimus than TCS, but we found no difference in skin infection. Symptoms were mild and temporary. The comparison between pimecrolimus and tacrolimus showed the same overall frequency of side‐effects, with local side‐effects being more frequent in the tacrolimus groups. Tacrolimus also showed a longer duration of the local symptoms, between 30 minutes and 12 hours, while pimecrolimus users experienced symptoms for less than 30 minutes. 
Serious adverse events were rare, occurred both in tacrolimus and TCS groups, and were considered to be unrelated to treatment in most instances. No cases of lymphoma (a type of cancer of the lymph nodes) were noted in the included studies nor in the non‐comparative studies. Cases were only noted retrospectively in studies and reports, with no confirmed relation to the drug. 
Systemic absorption (substance entering the bloodstream) was rarely detectable, only in low levels and decreased with time. Only in diseases with severe skin barrier problems, such as Netherton's syndrome, lamellar ichthyosis (rare genetic disorders), and a few others, were there case reports of systemic absorption. 
After evaluating clinical trials, case reports, human and animal studies, we found a lack of evidence associating the use of topical tacrolimus with skin thinning. 
In summary, tacrolimus ointment seems to be safe and effective for moderate to severe atopic dermatitis in children and adults. It should be used with caution, though, in those having diseases with a severely damaged skin barrier. We found no risk of skin thinning with its use, even for longer periods. We did not find any evidence associating a risk of malignancies with the use of topical tacrolimus. We did not evaluate costs in this review. 
