Continuous and individual interrupted sutures for repair of episiotomy or second‐degree tears 
Continuous stitching causes less pain than interrupted absorbable stitches when used for repairing the perineum after childbirth. 
When women give birth, the perineum (the area between the vaginal opening and back passage) sometimes tears or it may be necessary for them to have an episiotomy (surgical cut) to increase the size of the vaginal outlet to facilitate the birth. Episiotomies and tears that involve the muscle layer (second degree) need to be stitched. Millions of women worldwide undergo perineal suturing after childbirth and the type of repair may have an impact on pain and discomfort, and healing. In the UK alone, approximately 1000 women per day will experience perineal stitches following vaginal birth and millions more worldwide. A midwife or doctor will stitch the episiotomy or second‐degree tear in three layers (vagina, perineal muscle and skin). Traditionally the vagina is stitched using a continuous locking stitch and the perineal muscles and skin are repaired using approximately three or four individual stitches, each needing to be knotted separately to prevent them from dislodging. Researchers have been suggesting for more than 70 years that the 'continuous non‐locking stitching method' is better than 'traditional interrupted methods'. This review looked at 'continuous stitching methods' compared with 'traditional interrupted stitching methods' and identified 16 randomised controlled trials involving 8184 women from eight different countries. Results from the trials showed that stitching just underneath the skin (subcutaneous) was associated with less pain with reduced need for analgesics after the birth, or for the sutures to be removed; however, when the 'continuous stitching method' was used for repair of all three layers, this may be associated with even less pain. The level of operator skill and training varied in the different trials. Other research is needed to assess perineal repair training programmes. In addition, research is needed to look at interventions that may reduce the incidence of perineal trauma during childbirth. 
