Mechanical heart pumps to aid a heart that fails suddenly
Background 
Conditions that prevent the heart pumping effectively remain the leading cause of death globally. A heart attack is the most common condition that causes the heart pump to fail (called cardiogenic shock), but other causes exist such as viral infections, heart valve disease and problems with the muscle. When the heart muscle has been damaged so extensively that it can no longer pump effectively function has to be improved or organ damage and death will occur. Even with the best treatments that we currently have, the risk of dying is extremely high. Mechanical assist devices that can help the heart to pump more effectively have been developed so that the heart can recover from the insult. 
However, the evidence for these treatments is scare and the aim of this review is to assess if these devices do help more people to survive. We assessed randomised control trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) where these devices were used and compare the outcome of these people to those who did not receive a device and received best medical treatment (with medicines to help the heart to pump). 
Results 
The evidence is current to 25 November 2019.
We identified five trials that enrolled 162 people in shock due to their heart failing. These people were randomised to using mechanical assist devices with current best management practice or current best medical management alone (which includes medicines to help the heart to pump more effectively). 
The quality of the evidence was very low, due to difficulties in accounting for biases (one cannot hide the fact that a person receives a mechanical assist device, difficulty in enrolling participants, gaining consent when a person is very close to dying, and variations in the protocols on the timing of the devices and the types of devices used). 
From the data, there was little or no effect on survival at 30 days if a device was used alongside current best medical management or current best medical management alone. However, we are uncertain about these findings.  
