Chlorpromazine compared with newer atypical antipsychotics
People with schizophrenia often hear voices or see things (hallucinations) and have strange beliefs (delusions). The main treatment for people with these symptoms of schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. Chlorpromazine was one of the first drugs discovered to be effective for treating people with schizophrenia. It remains one of the most commonly used and inexpensive treatments. However, being an older drug (typical or first generation) it also has serious side effects, including blurred vision, a dry mouth, tremors or uncontrollable shaking, depression, muscle stiffness and restlessness. 
In this Cochrane review we examined the effects of chlorpromazine for treating people with schizophrenia compared with newer antipsychotic drugs. 
We searched the literature for randomised controlled trials up to 23 September 2013, and included 71 trials. The included studies compared chlorpromazine with three newer antipsychotics: risperidone, quetiapine or olanzapine. Most included trials were short term studies and undertaken in China. Based on low quality evidence, we found that chlorpromazine is not much different to risperidone or quetiapine but is associated with more side effects. More favourable results were found for olanzapine with those receiving olanzapine experiencing fewer side effects and greater improvements in global state and quality of life than those receiving chlorpromazine, but again this is based on low quality evidence. Larger, longer, better conducted and reported trials should focus on important outcomes such as quality of life, levels of satisfaction with treatment or care, relapse, costs and hospital discharge or admission. Also, more international studies are needed. Outpatient treatment was under‐represented in the included studies, and future research should also include work with this group of people. 
Due to the limitations of evidence in this Cochrane review, it is difficult to draw firm conclusions. Chlorpormazine is available widely, is comparable with the newer antipsychotics and is relatively cheap so despite its propensity to cause side effects, is likely to remain one of the benchmark antipsychotics. 
The plain language summary has been written by a consumer. Ben Gray: Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation. http://mcpin.org/. 
