How good are ultrasound, CT, MRI, and PET‐CT for identifying spread of disease in the body among people with melanoma? 
What is the aim of the review? 
We wanted to find out which imaging tests are better for identifying spread of disease among people with a first diagnosis of melanoma (primary staging) and among people with possible recurrence of melanoma (re‐staging). We looked at the evidence for ultrasound, CT, MRI, and PET‐CT and included 39 studies to answer these questions. 
Why are imaging tests for melanoma important? 
Melanoma is one of the most aggressive forms of skin cancer, with potential for metastases (cancer cells) to spread to the lymph nodes and other organs of the body. To make sure that people with melanoma receive the most appropriate and effective treatment, it is important to identify whether the disease has spread and to which parts of the body it has spread. This is called 'staging of disease'. Staging is done to find out if a melanoma has spread to regional lymph nodes or to lymph nodes close to the original melanoma, and to determine if the melanoma has spread to lymph nodes in other parts of the body or to organs of the body such as the liver or the brain (distant metastases). Imaging tests are tools that can be used to help find out how much the disease has spread. Several new treatments are now available for reducing the risk of spread of melanoma and for treating melanoma when it has spread. 
What was studied in the review? 
The review includes four imaging tests that create images of the body in different ways. Ultrasound uses high‐frequency sound waves to create images, CT scans use ionising radiation in the form of X‐rays (a very low dose of radiation), and MRI uses large magnets and non‐ionising radiation in the form of radio waves (which are not harmful) to generate images of the body. PET‐CT requires injection of a weakly radioactive substance (FDG). The PET part of the scan identifies areas of the body that take up a lot of FDG (indicating possibly cancerous cells), and the CT part of the scan helps to improve image quality and to more accurately pinpoint areas using more FDG. Ultrasound can also be performed along with a fairly simple procedure called 'fine needle aspiration cytology' (FNAC), by which a very fine needle is used to take a small sample of cells from a lymph node that looks suspicious on ultrasound. A microscope is then used to identify whether or not the cells are malignant. 
