Vitamin C supplementation to prevent cardiovascular disease
Background 
Cardiovascular diseases (CVD) are a group of conditions affecting the heart and blood vessels. CVD is a global burden and varies between regions, and this variation has been linked in part to dietary factors. Such factors are important because they can be modified to help with CVD prevention and management.This review assessed the effectiveness of vitamin C supplementation as a single supplement at reducing cardiovascular death, all‐cause death, non‐fatal endpoints (such as heart attacks, strokes and angina) and CVD risk factors in healthy adults and adults at high risk of CVD . 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for randomised controlled trials (clinical trials where people are allocated at random to one of two or more treatments) looking at the effects of vitamin C supplementation in healthy adults or those at high risk of developing CVD. We did not include people who already had CVD (e.g. heart attacks and strokes). The evidence is current to May 2016. 
Key results 
Eight trials fulfilled our inclusion criteria. One large trial looked at the effects of vitamin C supplements on the risk of major CVD events (fatal and non‐fatal) and found no beneficial effects. This trial was however conducted in middle‐aged and older male doctors in the USA and so its not certain that the effects are the same in other groups of people. Seven trials looked at the effects of vitamin C supplements on CVD risk factors. We could not combine these trials as there was lots of missing information and differences between the trials in terms of the participants recruited, the dose of vitamin C and the duration of trials. Overall, there were inconsistent effects of vitamin C supplements on lipid levels and blood pressure and more research is needed. Four of the included studies did not mention sources of funding of the study, two had non‐commercial (grants) funding and two had both commercial (industries) and non‐commercial funding (grants). 
