The use of recombinant growth hormone to improve growth and health in children and young adults with cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of recombinant human growth hormone (rhGH) on the health of people with cystic fibrosis (CF). 
Background 
CF is an inherited condition causing disease in the lungs, digestive system and pancreas. People with CF are often underweight and have delayed growth, which may impact their lung function. Nutritional supplements may not be enough and it has been suggested that treatment with rhGH, which improves the rate of growth and bone density, might help. Treatment with rhGH is usually given once a day via a needle under the skin. It is expensive and may affect glucose metabolism that has implications for children at risk of CF‐related diabetes. Hence, we need to critically review the risks and benefits of this treatment. This is an update of an earlier review. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 12 January 2021.
Study characteristics 
This review looked at using of rhGH to improve lung function, growth and quality of life for children and young adults with CF. It includes eight trials with 291 individuals with CF being selected for one treatment or the other randomly. The individuals in the trials were five to 23 years old, but most had not yet reached puberty. Six trials lasted for one year and two trials for six months. Treatment with rhGH was compared to no treatment in seven trials and to a placebo (a liquid that did not contain any growth hormone) in one trial. The trial that used a placebo compared it to two different doses of rhGH treatment. 
Key results 
Results showed a modest improvement in height, weight and lean body mass between six and 12 months. However, there was no consistent evidence that rhGH treatment improves lung function, muscle strength, or quality of life. The trials were small and we did not find any evidence on changes in glucose metabolism or the long‐term risk of diabetes due to the treatment. Given these results, we are not able to identify any clear benefit of therapy and believe that more research from well‐designed, adequately powered clinical trials is needed. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We did not have enough information to decide if overall the trials were biased in a way that might affect the results. All the measured outcomes were clearly reported in the trials, but the trials were small and did not have enough participants to show a difference that may not have been due to chance. We also had concerns that outcomes that were based on personal judgment, such as quality of life scores, might be affected because those taking part in seven of the trials were able to tell which group they were in. 
