Treatment for breast engorgement (overfull, hard, painful breasts) in breastfeeding women 
What is the issue? 
Breast engorgement is the overfilling of breasts with milk, leading to swollen, hard, painful breasts. Engorgement is more common when feeding is scheduled, when women have difficulty breastfeeding or are separated from their babies. This leads to breasts not being emptied sufficiently. 
Why is this important? 
Breast engorgement is distressing and leads to complications such as inflammation of the breast, sore/cracked nipples and reduced milk supply. Consequently, women may stop breastfeeding. Consistent evidence on effective forms of treatment is lacking. 
What evidence did we find? 
For this update, we searched for trials (on 2 October 2019) exploring any treatments for breast engorgement in breastfeeding women. We found 21 studies involving 2170 women and 17 different interventions. 
For breast pain, cold cabbage leaves may be better than routine care or cold gel packs. We are uncertain whether cold cabbage leaves are better than room temperature cabbage leaves, or room temperature cabbage leaves than hot water bag, or cabbage leaf extract cream than placebo cream because the certainty of evidence was low. For breast hardness, cold cabbage leaves may be better than routine care but we are uncertain if they are better than cold gel packs. For breast engorgement, room temperature cabbage leaves may be better than a hot water bag. We are uncertain if cabbage leaf extract cream is better than placebo cream because the certainty of evidence was low. 
For breast pain, herbal compress may be better than hot compress and massage therapy plus cactus/aloe compress may be better than massage therapy alone. We are uncertain if cactus/aloe compress is better than massage therapy because the certainty of evidence was low. Cactus/aloe compress may be better for breast hardness compared to massage therapy. Massage plus cactus/aloe cold compress may be better for breast hardness compared to massage alone. We are uncertain about the effects of compress treatments on breast engorgement and stopping breastfeeding because the certainty of evidence was very low. 
Protease may be better for breast pain and breast swelling, whereas serrapeptase may be better for engorgement compared to placebo. We are uncertain if serrapeptase reduces breast pain or swelling, or if oxytocin reduces breast engorgement compared to placebo, because the certainty of evidence was low. 
For breast pain, we are uncertain about the effectiveness of cold gel packs compared to control treatments because the certainty of evidence was low. For breast hardness, cold gel packs may be better than routine care. We are uncertain if more women stop breastfeeding following cold gel pack treatment compared to routine care because the certainty of evidence was low. 
In terms of women’s opinion of treatment, the certainty of evidence was low. More women were satisfied with cold cabbage leaves than with routine care, or with cold gel packs. There may be little difference in women’s satisfaction between cold gel packs and routine care. 
