Comparing different injection frequencies for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration
What was the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if anti‐vascular endothelial grown factor (anti‐VEGF) injections for neovascular age‐related macular degeneration (nAMD) can be given less frequently than every month. 
Key messages This review found that people receiving monthly injections had slightly better vision (one or two letters more on a vision test chart, less than half‐line of vision) at one year compared with people receiving injections 'as needed' (average: seven injections), but there was no difference with a modified 'as needed' regimen called treat‐and‐extend (average: nine injections). People receiving monthly injections had more injections and this increased the risk of rare, but severe side effects such as infections. 
What was studied in this review?Neovascular age‐related macular degeneration occurs in older people and affects the central part of vision. In nAMD, new blood vessels grow at the back of the eye. 
People with nAMD can benefit from injections of medicines into the eye. These ‘anti‐VEGF’ medicines block the growth of new blood vessels. Currently, there is variation in how often these injections are given. A greater number of injections may result in better vision but also increase harm, such as endophthalmitis, a sight‐threatening infection of the eye. More injections are also more costly for the health service. 
What were the main results of the review?Cochrane researchers identified 15 studies (7732 participants) comparing non‐monthly and monthly injections. Six out of 15 studies were funded by drug manufacturers. 
The review found:
People who had less frequent anti‐VEGF injections may have had slightly worse vision at one year compared with people having monthly injections when injections (seven on average) are delivered 'as needed'. This was a difference of 1 or 2 more letters read on a vision test chart and an approximate 10% increased chance of gaining 15 or more letters of vision with monthly injections. There was no evidence of difference between monthly injections and treat‐and‐extend (nine injections on average). 
There was an increased chance of endophthalmitis with monthly injections. Endophthalmitis is rare, occurring in approximately 8 in 1000 people having monthly injections for one year, and in approximately 1 per 1000 people (range 0 to 4) having less than monthly injections 'as needed'. 
