Intra‐uterine insemination for unexplained subfertility
Review question 
Does treatment with intra‐uterine insemination (IUI), with or without fertility drugs, compared to timed intercourse or expectant management (watchful waiting) with or without fertility drugs, or treatment with IUI with fertility drugs compared to IUI without fertility drugs improve live birth rates in couples with unexplained subfertility? 
Background 
IUI is a treatment often used for couples with unexplained subfertility. In an IUI cycle, the male partner's sperm is prepared and placed directly in the womb around the time of ovulation. IUI cycles can be used in combination with fertility drugs to increase the number of available eggs. However, these drugs can have side effects, and also increase the risk of multiple pregnancies. Expectant management and timed intercourse have also been shown to increase pregnancy rates, resulting in live births. With this review, we would like to enhance decision‐making for couples starting treatment for unexplained subfertility. 
Study characteristics 
Cochrane authors identified 15 randomised controlled trials which included 2068 women. Women who were treated with IUI, with or without fertility drugs, were compared to those who were assigned timed intercourse or expectant management with or without fertility drugs, or women who received IUI with fertility drugs were compared to those who were treated with IUI without fertility drugs. The main outcomes of interest were live birth rates and multiple pregnancy rates. Other outcomes included pregnancy rate, miscarriage rate and other adverse events. The evidence is current to October 2019. 
Key results 
For most treatment groups, it is uncertain whether treatment with one IUI treatment type improves cumulative live birth rates (i.e. rates at the end of a course of treatment) with acceptable multiple pregnancy rates when compared to another treatment type. However, there is moderate‐quality evidence that, in couples with a low chance of natural conception, treatment with IUI combined with fertility drugs probably improves cumulative live birth rates compared to treatment with expectant management. Similarly, there is moderate‐quality evidence that treatment with IUI alone probably improves cumulative live birth rates compared to treatment with expectant management combined with fertility drugs. 
