Novel oral anticoagulants for the treatment of deep vein thrombosis
Background 
Deep vein thrombosis (DVT) is a condition in which a blood clot forms in the deep vein of the leg or pelvis. It affects approximately 1 in 1000 people. If it is not treated, the clot can travel in the blood and block the arteries in the lungs. This life‐threatening condition is called a pulmonary embolism (PE) and occurs in approximately 3 to 4 per 10,000 people. The chances of getting a DVT can be increased if people have certain risk factors. These include previous clots, prolonged periods of immobility (such as travelling on aeroplanes or bed rest), cancer, exposure to oestrogens (pregnancy, oral contraceptives or hormone replacement therapy), trauma and blood disorders such as thrombophilia (abnormal blood clotting). A DVT is diagnosed through determining the risk factors and performing an ultrasound of the leg veins. If a DVT is confirmed, people are treated with an anticoagulant. This medicine prevents further clots from forming. Until recently, the drugs of choice were heparin, fondaparinux and vitamin K antagonists. However, these drugs can cause side effects and have limitations. Two further classes of novel oral anticoagulants have been developed: these are called direct thrombin inhibitors (DTI) and factor Xa inhibitors. There are particular reasons why oral DTIs and factor Xa inhibitors might now be better medicines to use. They can be given orally, they have a predictable effect, they do not require frequent monitoring or re‐dosing and they have few known drug interactions. This review measures the effectiveness and safety of these new drugs with conventional treatment. 
Key results 
After searching for relevant studies up to January 2015, we found 11 studies with 27,945 participants. Studies compared DTIs or factor Xa inhibitors with conventional treatment. We looked at whether they prevented blood clots and PE. The main safety outcomes included death and side effects such as bleeding. This review showed that both oral DTIs and oral factor Xa inhibitors had similar effects on preventing blood clots and PE than standard anticoagulation treatment. However, fewer people experienced bleeding who were given either of the drugs. None of the included studies measured post‐thrombotic syndrome (a complication of DVT) or health‐related quality of life. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was generally high as the studies were of good quality, they answered the question we addressed directly, the results of the studies were consistent and the effect estimates were precise. We do not believe that further research will change the results we have presented. 
