The effectiveness of oxygen for adult patients with pneumonia
Pneumonia is an inflammatory condition of the lungs. Treatment for pneumonia includes antibiotics, rest, fluids, management of complications and professional home care. Oxygen supplementation is one way to help patients who cannot breathe adequately on their own. Management of oxygen supplementation is divided into nasal cannula and mechanical ventilation. Mechanical ventilation is life‐supporting ventilation that involves the use of a machine called a ventilator, or respirator. There are two main types of mechanical ventilation: non‐invasive ventilation (NIV) and invasive ventilation. The former provides ventilatory support to a patient through a tightly fitted facial or nasal mask and the latter through a tube inserted into the windpipe through the mouth or the nose or a hole made in the windpipe through the front of the throat. At present, oxygen therapy for individuals with pneumonia is commonly prescribed. However, inconsistent results on the effects of oxygen therapy on pneumonia have been reported and no systematic review has been conducted in patients with pneumonia to determine which delivery system of oxygen therapy leads to the best clinical outcomes. 
We searched the related literature and included three randomised controlled trials involving 151 adults with pneumonia aged around 60 years. We did not include patients with pulmonary tuberculosis or cystic fibrosis. We found that NIV can reduce the risk of death in the intensive care unit (ICU) and the need for endotracheal intubation, shorten ICU stay and length of intubation. Some outcomes and complications of oxygen therapy depended upon the delivery system and primary diseases. The most common complications of invasive ventilation are ventilator‐associated pneumonia. However, we must be aware that oxygen therapy is just one of the treatments for pneumonia and the other standard treatments used by physicians are of equal importance. 
The evidence is weak and it is limited by the small number of studies and the small number of study participants. 
