Treatment of osteoporosis in people with beta thalassaemia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects and safety of different treatments of osteoporosis in people with beta‐thalassaemia. 
Background 
Osteoporosis affects bone density over time and leads to an increased risk of fractures. It is an important cause of illness in people with beta‐thalassaemia. We wanted to find the most effective available treatment for treating osteoporosis and improving quality of life. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 04 February 2016.
Trial characteristics 
The review included four trials with 211 people with beta‐thalassaemia aged between 10 years and 58 years of age. Trials compared bisphosphonates (alendronate, clodronate and neridronate and pamidronate) and zinc sulphate to either control groups or, as in one trial a different dose of treatment, with people selected for one treatment or the other randomly. Three trials were carried out for two years, with one currently only reporting 12‐month data and one trial was carried out for 12 months. 
Key results 
Three trials assessed bisphosphonate therapy, in one trial (118 volunteers) there was an increase (in favour of the treatment group) in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and hip at six and 12 months and at the femoral neck only after 12 months. In a second trial (25 volunteers), bone mineral density at the lumbar spine increased after two years of treatment with alendronate and clodronate. In the 12‐month trial comparing different doses of pamidronate (26 volunteers), the 60 mg group reported a larger increase in bone mineral density at the lumbar spine and forearm than the 30 mg group, but this was not the case at the femoral neck. 
In a zinc sulphate supplements trial (42 volunteers), bone mineral density increased at the lumbar spine and hip after 12 and 18 months. 
It was stated that there were no fractures in one trial and this outcome was not reported in three trials. 
There were no major adverse effects reported in either of the trials comparing bisphosphonates to control; although in the neridronate trial there were fewer painkillers used and a lower score for back pain reported in the bisphosphonate group. Adverse effects were not reported in the bisphosphonate trial comparing different doses or in the zinc sulphate supplements trial. 
Therefore, evidence indicates an increase in bone mineral density at the femoral neck, lumbar spine and forearm after giving bisphosphonates. This is also true for the lumbar spine and hip after zinc sulphate supplementation. The authors recommend that further long‐term randomised controlled trials looking at different treatments with bisphosphonates and zinc supplementation are carried out on people with beta‐thalassaemia who have osteoporosis. 
