Should Chinese herbal medicines be used in patients with skin and soft‐tissue infections?
What are skin and soft‐tissue infections?  Skin and soft‐tissue infections (SSTIs) are common infections of the skin or the tissue beneath the skin. They include impetigo, abscesses, cellulitis, erysipelas, necrotising (flesh‐killing) skin infections, infections caused by animal or human bites or by animal contact, and infections after surgery. 
Most SSTIs do not require treatment, but heal by themselves. Some SSTIs are more serious and can become life‐threatening, and these need medical treatment. 
What are Chinese herbal medicines?  Chinese herbal medicines are mostly extracts of plants, or parts of plants, that are used individually, or combined, as medicines. These traditional medicines have been used in China for centuries, and Chinese doctors currently prescribe them to treat SSTIs. 
Why use Chinese herbal medicines for SSTIs?  In the Western world antibiotics are used to treat SSTIs, however antibiotics are expensive, can cause harms (side effects) as well as benefits, are not suitable for all people, and are becoming less effective as bacteria start to develop resistance to them. Alternative treatments need to be identified, and Chinese herbal medicines could provide that alternative. 
The purpose of this review  The aim of this review was to see if medical research showed whether Chinese herbal medicines are an effective treatment for SSTIs. We wanted to compare the use of Chinese herbal medicines with other treatments, or a fake treatment (placebo), to see which produced a better outcome for patients in a particular type of medical study called a 'randomised controlled trial'. 
Findings of this review  We could not find any randomised controlled trials that compared the use of Chinese herbal medicines for treating SSTIs with other treatments or a placebo. Therefore, we cannot support or refute the use of Chinese herbal medicines to treat SSTIs. 
In future, we hope that randomised controlled trials will be conducted to evaluate the benefits and side effects of Chinese herbal medicines compared with current practice for the treatment of SSTIs. These trials would help people and doctors to decide on the best way to treatment SSTIs. 
