Efficacy and experiences of telephone counselling for informal carers of people with dementia 
What is the problem? 
Caring for a person with dementia often has a negative impact on an informal carer’s mental and physical health and social life. Therefore, these informal carers should be offered support. They are usually family members and care for the person with dementia at home. 
What is telephone counselling? 
Eliciting a person’s concerns, listening, and providing support, information, or teaching in response to a persons’s stated concerns, over the telephone. 
The purpose of this review 
The aim of this review was to investigate whether telephone counselling is an effective way of reducing symptoms of depression and other stresses in the carers of people with dementia. We also investigated which aspects of telephone counselling the people who received it thought could be improved. 
Results of the review 
We searched for scientific studies that compared telephone counselling with no treatment, or usual care or friendly calls. We found nine studies that investigated how well telephone counselling worked (efficacy) and two studies that examined the quality of the experience. 
The efficacy studies investigated three types of telephone counselling: telephone counselling only (six studies); telephone counselling plus video sessions (one study); and telephone counselling plus video sessions and a workbook (two studies). These provided some evidence that telephone counselling is effective for reducing depressive symptoms in carers of people with dementia (three studies), but no clear positive effects could be shown for any other outcome such as stress or anxiety. 
The studies that investigated the experience aspect of telephone counselling revealed a range of carers’ needs (16 themes) that covered three main areas: barriers to ‐ and things that enabled ‐ successful implementation of telephone counselling; the counsellor’s emotional attitude; and the content of the telephone counselling. 
