Bedside examination tests to detect beforehand adults who are likely to be difficult to intubate 
Review question 
We looked for the most suitable and accurate rapid screening test in adults with no obvious airway abnormalities, to identify those who are likely to be difficult to intubate (i.e. insertion of a tube into the windpipe). 
Background 
Intubation ensures a patient’s airway is clear while they are heavily sedated, unconscious or anaesthetized, so their breathing can be controlled by machine (ventilation), and appropriate levels of oxygen can be given during surgery, following major trauma, during critical illness, or following cardiac arrest. Having an airway that is difficult to intubate is a potentially life‐threatening situation. 
Tube insertion is preceded by laryngoscopy (insertion of mini‐camera to view route of tube insertion), requires advanced skills, and is generally uneventful. Intubation is difficult in approximately 10% of patients, who require special equipment and precautions. Several physical features are associated with difficult airways and failed intubation, so warning of potentially difficult airways would be helpful. Several quick bedside tests are in routine clinical use to identify those at high risk for difficult airways, but how accurate these are remains unclear. 
Population 
We included studies of adults aged 16 years or older without obvious airway abnormalities who were to receive standard intubation. 
Test under investigation 
We assessed the seven most common bedside tests, routinely used to detect difficult airways. These take only a few seconds to complete and require no special equipment. 
The index tests (diagnostic tests of interest) included:
‐ the Mallampati test (original or modified; asking a sitting patient to open his mouth and to protrude the tongue as much as possible so that visibility can be determined); 
‐ Wilson risk score (including patient's weight, head and neck movement, jaw movement, receding chin, buck teeth); 
‐ thyromental distance (length between the chin and the upper edge of Adam's apple);
‐ sternomental distance (length between the chin and the notch between the collar bones); 
‐ mouth opening test;
‐ upper lip bite test;
‐ or any combination of these tests.
Search date 
The evidence is current to 16 December 2016. (We searched for new studies in March 2018, but we have not yet included them in the review.) 
