Lifestyle interventions for treating women with gestational diabetes (or diabetes in pregnancy) 
What is the issue? 
Gestational diabetes (GDM), is a glucose intolerance leading to high blood glucose levels that is first recognised during pregnancy and which usually normalises after giving birth. Diabetes during pregnancy has been linked to many short‐term and long‐term health problems for the mother and her baby. The main way to treat GDM is through lifestyle changes such as diet, exercise and checking blood glucose levels. 
Why is this important? 
Women with GDM have an increased risk of developing high blood pressure during pregnancy (pre‐eclampsia) and are more likely to have their labour induced. The babies of women with GDM are more likely to be large when born and this can be linked to babies having birth trauma (bones broken or nerves damaged during the birth) and the need for giving birth by caesarean section. Lifestyle interventions that include two or more components of dietary advice, physical activity, education, and self‐monitoring of blood glucose are the first‐line treatment for most women diagnosed with GDM. Interventions such as healthy eating and physical activity aim to help women maintain their blood glucose levels within a target range and to improve health outcomes for the mother and baby. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the literature (May 2016) for controlled trials comparing lifestyle intervention with a control group of women receiving usual care or another intervention. Fifteen randomised controlled trials (45 publications) are included in this review, involving 4501 women and 3768 infants. None of the trials were funded by a conditional grant from a pharmaceutical company. 
For the baby, lifestyle interventions were associated with a reduction in the risk of being born large‐for‐gestational age (six trials, 2994 infants). The number of babies with birthweight over 4000 g (macrosomia) was lower with the lifestyle intervention, with no clear difference in the number of newborn babies experiencing low blood glucose levels (six trials, 3000 infants). The evidence was of moderate quality for these findings. Birthweight was also lower in the lifestyle intervention group. 
For the mothers, introducing lifestyle interventions made no clear difference in the number of women with pregnancy‐induced high blood pressure (four trials, 2796 women) or having a caesarean section (10 trials, 3545 women) based on low‐quality evidence or on induction of labour (four trials, 2699 women, high‐quality evidence). Similar numbers of women experienced perineal trauma or tearing (one trial, 1000 women) or developed type 2 diabetes at a maximum of 10 years after giving birth (two trials, 486 women). These findings were supported by low‐ to moderate‐quality evidence. 
More women in the lifestyle group had met their weight goals one year after giving birth, and lifestyle interventions were associated with a decrease in the risk of depression after birth, from single trials. These findings were supported by low quality evidence. 
What does this mean? 
Lifestyle interventions provide benefits to women with GDM and their babies. The interventions are useful as the primary therapeutic strategy and generally include, as a minimum, healthy eating, physical activity and self‐monitoring of blood sugar levels. 
Furture research could focus on the effective components of lifestyle interventions and the use of lifestyle interventions as the sole intervention without pharmacological treatment. Future studies also need to consider long‐term outcomes for the mother and her child as a priority when planning future trials. 
