Melatonin and agomelatine for prevention of winter depression
Why is this review important? 
Many people in northern latitudes suffer from seasonal affective disorder (SAD), which occurs as a reaction to reduced sunlight. Three‐quarters of those affected are women. Lethargy, overeating, craving for carbohydrates and depressed mood are common symptoms. In some people, SAD becomes depression that seriously affects their daily lives. Up to two‐thirds experience depressive symptoms every winter. 
Who might be interested in this review? 
General practitioners, psychiatrists, pharmacists, other health professionals working in adult mental health services, and researchers could be interested in the results of this review. Anyone who has experienced winter depression, or who has friends or relatives who have experienced winter depression might also be interested. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Because of the seasonal pattern and high recurrence of SAD, melatonin or agomelatine could be used to prevent the onset of depressed mood. The goal of this report is to examine whether benefits outweigh harms of melatonin or agomelatine when used to prevent onset of a new depressive episode in people with a history of SAD who were free of symptoms when the preventive intervention started. To date, this question has not been examined in a systematic way. This is one of four reviews on the efficacy and potential harms of interventions to prevent SAD. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched databases up to June 2018 for studies on melatonin or agomelatine for prevention of winter depression. Among 3745 records, we found one randomised controlled study comparing agomelatine with placebo for one year. All 225 participants had a history of winter depression but were not depressed when the prevention study started. 
What does evidence from the review reveal? 
The included study showed neither a clear effect in favour nor against agomelatine as a preventive treatment. In addition, the certainty of evidence for all outcomes was very low, making it impossible to draw any conclusions about the efficacy and safety of agomelatine for the prevention of winter depression. No evidence on melatonin for prevention of SAD was identified. 
Doctors need to discuss with persons with a history of SAD that currently evidence on agomelatine or melatonin for preventive treatment options for SAD is inconclusive, therefore treatment selection should be strongly based on peoples' preferences and reflect on the evidence base of all available treatment options. 
