Using qualitative evidence to identify factors influencing ICU health carers' use of guidelines to take adults and children off mechanical ventilation 
Background 
Many critically‐ill adults and children being cared for in an intensive care unit (ICU) are unable to breathe by themselves. When this happens they are put on a mechanical ventilator, a machine that helps them to breathe. Staying on a ventilator for too long increases the likelihood of harmful effects, including trauma and infection of the lungs and complications of prolonged immobility such as blood clots in the legs or lungs. Consequently, researchers have tried to find ways to take people off ventilators (that is, to wean them) as soon as is safely possible. One way is by using guidelines, or protocols. Two recent Cochrane reviews combined evidence from different research studies. Some studies showed that protocols were successful in reducing the amount of time spent on a ventilator, while other studies showed that using protocols did not make any difference to the amount of time spent on a ventilator. These contrasting findings could have been caused by a range of factors. Researchers investigating these factors have used qualitative research methods, which usually involve talking to people or observing how people behave, or both. 
Review question 
What are the factors influencing how healthcare professionals use protocols to wean adults and children from mechanical ventilation? 
Methods 
To identify studies using qualitative methods, we searched relevant electronic databases of journals in February 2015. We also searched the reference lists of articles, contacted the authors of all of the studies included in the two earlier reviews and in our qualitative synthesis, and contacted experts in mechanical ventilation. We combined the findings of the relevant studies to produce a synthesis of the evidence on what influences health professionals to use protocols. We then combined our synthesis with the findings of the two earlier reviews to help explain why some of the studies had shown protocols to be effective and others had not. We were able to do so by producing explanations of how different factors work together to either promote or hinder the use of protocols. We outlined these explanations in a ‘logic model’. 
