Pretreatments in in vitro fertilisation/intra‐cytoplasmic sperm injection cycles
Review question 
The aim of this review was to assess whether pretreatment with a combined oral contraceptive pill (COCP) or with progestogen or oestrogen alone influences pregnancy outcomes in couples with low fertility undergoing assisted reproductive technology (ART) 
Background 
In vitro fertilisation (IVF; where an egg is mixed with sperm outside the body) and intra‐cytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI; where one sperm is injected directly into the egg) are important techniques for women who have trouble getting pregnant. IVF and ICSI cycles consist of a few steps. First the woman receives hormone therapy to stimulate her ovaries in producing egg cells (called ovarian stimulation). When a few egg cells are mature enough to be fertilised, the woman receives a single hormone injection. This triggers the ovaries to release the egg cells, so they can be gathered by the clinician. The eggs are then fertilised outside the woman's body and become embryos. One or two embryos are then transferred into the womb. 
Before the first step in IVF or ICSI cycles (hormone therapy), a pretreatment with a COCP can be given. A COCP contains both progestogen and oestrogen. Pretreatment with a progestogen or oestrogen alone could also be used before the hormone therapy. These pretreatments suppress the woman's own hormone production. This might improve the woman's response to the hormone therapy in IVF/ICSI cycles. In this way, side events such as cyst formation (fluid‐filled sac that develops on a woman's ovary) and the number of pregnancy losses might be reduced and pregnancy outcomes might be improved. 
Study characteristics 
This Cochrane Review included 30 randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) assessing pretreatment with COCP, progestogen or oestrogen in 5096 women undergoing ART. The evidence is current to January 2017. 
Key results 
Among women undergoing ovarian stimulation in antagonist protocols, COCP pretreatment was associated with a lower rate of live birth or ongoing pregnancy than no pretreatment. There was insufficient evidence to determine whether rates of live birth or ongoing pregnancy were influenced by pretreatment with progestogens or oestrogens, or by COCP pretreatment using other stimulation protocols. Findings on adverse events were inconclusive, except that progesterone pretreatment may reduce the risk of ovarian cysts in agonist cycles, and COCP in antagonist cycles may reduce the risk of pregnancy loss compared with no pretreatment in agonist cycles. 
