Silicone gel sheeting for treating hypertrophic scars
Background 
A scar is a mark left on the skin after a wound or injury has healed, for example, after surgery or after a burn. Most scars will fade and become paler over time, but some scars may become red and raised (called hypertrophic scars). Hypertrophic scars may take several years to flatten and fade. 
Scars can be itchy, painful or unsightly, and may restrict movement. Scarring can affect people physically and emotionally, and can affect a person's well‐being. 
Treatments aim to improve a scar’s appearance and help to make it less visible. They include: wearing clothing that fits tightly around the skin (pressure garments); treatments applied to the scar; laser therapy and silicone gel sheets. 
Silicone gel sheets are soft wound dressings containing an elastic form of silicone. They have a soft, rubbery texture and stick to the skin. They are commonly used on healing skin to help soften and flatten a hypertrophic scar. 
What did we want to find out? 
In this Cochrane Review, we wanted to find out how well silicone gel sheets worked in treating hypertrophic scars. 
Our methods 
We searched for studies that investigated the use of silicone gel sheets to treat hypertrophic scars. We searched for randomised controlled trials only, in which the treatment each person receives is chosen at random. These studies give the most reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
What we found 
We found 13 studies with 468 people (425 of them completed the study) with hypertrophic scars caused by surgery, injury, burns or scalding. The studies compared the effects of silicone gel sheets with: giving no treatment with silicone gel sheets; wearing pressure garments; applying silicone gel or onion extract; polyurethane dressings; steroid injections;  laser therapy; intense pulsed light or Gecko Nanoplast (a silicone gel bandage). 
All studies were conducted in hospitals, in Europe (6 studies), China (2), the USA (1), Canada (1), Iran (1), Turkey (1) and India (1). They lasted for different lengths of time: from 3 months to 12 months. 
Four studies reported assessments of scars by healthcare professionals in way that was usable for this review. No studies reported useful results for the person's own assessment of their scar after treatment. 
No studies reported useful results for people's well‐being (quality of life): for whether people stayed on the treatment (adherence), whether the treatments had any unwanted effects; or whether the treatments were cost‐effective (the benefits of treatment outweighed any extra costs). 
