Parent training programmes for managing infantile (baby) colic
What is infantile colic? Infantile colic is a condition where a seemingly healthy infant up to the age of four months has periods of inconsolable and unexplained crying. These periods of crying tend to last more than three or more hours per day, and occur three days per week for at least three weeks. This can cause parents to become exhausted and concerned whilst attempting to comfort their child. 
What are parent training programmes? Parent training programmes involve providing training, support and psychological interventions to parents, to help reduce their infant’s symptoms and parents' anxiety levels. 
What did the researchers investigate? This Cochrane Review aimed to assess the effectiveness and safety of parent training programmes for managing infantile colic, and to identify the educational content and attributes of such programmes. 
Included studies This review found seven relevant, small, randomised controlled trials (a type of experiment in which participants are randomly allocated to two or more groups), with 1187 participants. All studies included infants younger than four months of age. The duration of the interventions varied, with the shortest being six days and the longest being three months. Four studies were conducted in the USA, one in Canada, one in the Netherlands and one in Iran. Four studies stated their funding sources, which included national research institutes, foundations and nutritional companies. 
Five of the studies compared a parent training programme with a control (reassurance, no intervention or rocking the baby in their crib). One of these studies also compared training programmes to a third group who received a specialised baby seat. One study compared a parent training programme against a milk‐exclusion diet. The last study compared a parent training programme to the same parent training programme plus swaddling. Details of the content of training was limited, but most interventions commonly focused on one or a combination of the following: soothing techniques for crying infants (six studies); general care advice including sleep (four studies); feeding advice (two studies); stress reduction and empathic counselling for parents (two studies); and positive play interaction advice (one study). 
