Manual therapy and exercise for frozen shoulder (adhesive capsulitis)
Background 
Frozen shoulder is a common cause of shoulder pain and stiffness. The pain and stiffness can last up to two to three years before going away, and in the early stages it can be very painful. 
Manual therapy comprises movement of the joints and other structures by a healthcare professional (e.g. physiotherapist). Exercise includes any purposeful movement of a joint, muscle contraction or prescribed activity. The aims of both treatments are to relieve pain, increase joint range and improve function. 
Study characteristics 
This summary of an updated Cochrane review presents what we know from research about the benefits and harms of manual therapy and exercise in people with frozen shoulder. After searching for all relevant studies published up to May 2013, we included 32 trials (1836 participants). Among the included participants, 54% were women, average age was 55 years and average duration of the condition was six months. The average duration of manual therapy and exercise interventions was four weeks. 
Key results—manual therapy and exercise compared with glucocorticoid (a steroid that reduces inflammation) injection into the shoulder 
Pain (higher scores mean worse pain) 
People who had manual therapy and exercise for six weeks did not improve as much as people who had glucocorticoid injection—improvement in pain was 26 points less (ranging from 15 to 37 points less) at seven weeks (26% absolute less improvement). 
• People who had manual therapy and exercise rated their change in pain score as 32 points on a scale of 0 to 100 points. 
• People who had glucocorticoid injection rated their change in pain score as 58 points on a scale of 0 to 100 points. 
Function (lower scores mean better function) 
People who had manual therapy and exercise for six weeks did not improve as much as people who had glucocorticoid injection—improvement in function was 25 points less (ranging from 15 to 35 points less) at seven weeks (25% absolute less improvement). 
• People who had manual therapy and exercise rated their change in function as 14 points on a scale of 0 to 100 points. 
• People who had glucocorticoid injection rated their change in function as 39 points on a scale of 0 to 100 points. 
Treatment success 
31 fewer people out of 100 rated their treatment as successful with manual therapy and exercise for six weeks compared with glucocorticoid injection—31% absolute less improvement (ranging from 13% to 48% less improvement). 
• 46 out of 100 people reported treatment success with manual therapy and exercise.
• 77 out of 100 people reported treatment success with glucocorticoid injection.
Side effects 
Out of 100 people, three had minor side effects such as temporary pain after treatment with manual therapy and exercise for six weeks compared with glucocorticoid injection. 
• 56 out of 100 people reported side effects with manual therapy and exercise.
• 53 out of 100 people reported side effects with glucocorticoid injection.
Quality of the evidence 
Evidence of moderate quality shows that the combination of manual therapy and exercise probably improves pain and function less than glucocorticoid injection up to seven weeks, and probably does not result in more adverse events. Further research may change the estimate. 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that (1) the combination of manual therapy, exercise and electrotherapy (such as therapeutic ultrasound) may not improve pain or function more than glucocorticoid injection or placebo injection into the shoulder, (2) the combination of manual therapy, exercise, electrotherapy and glucocorticoid injection may not improve pain or function more than glucocorticoid injection alone and (3) the combination of manual therapy, exercise, electrotherapy and oral non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drug (NSAID) may not improve function more than oral NSAID alone. Further research is likely to change the estimate. 
High‐quality evidence shows that following arthrographic joint distension, the combination of manual therapy and exercise does not improve pain or function more than sham ultrasound, but may provide greater patient‐reported treatment success and active range of motion. Further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. 
