Treatments for unruptured intracranial aneurysms
Background 
Intracranial aneurysms are abnormal swellings of blood vessels in the brain. They can be present without causing any symptoms, but a small proportion will eventually cause bleeding, which can cause death or serious disability. Treatment approaches for intracranial aneurysms include conservative management (treat risk factors such as blood pressure), microsurgical clipping (an operation where a clip is placed across the aneurysm), and endovascular coiling (a minor operation where a coil is placed inside the aneurysm to cause it to block). Each approach carries different potential risks and benefits, and at present there is uncertainty about the ideal approach. 
Review question 
We looked at the effectiveness of performing conservative treatment compared with interventional treatments (microsurgical clipping or endovascular coiling) and microsurgical clipping compared with endovascular coiling for individuals with unruptured intracranial aneurysms. 
Date of search 
The search is current up to 25 May 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included two trials in the review: one randomized trial (a type of study in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatments groups using a random method) published in 2011 with 80 participants, which assessed conservative treatment with endovascular coiling, and another randomized trial published in 2017 with 136 participants, which assessed microsurgical clipping compared with endovascular coiling for individuals with unruptured intracranial aneurysms. 
Key results 
The limited evidence available did not show differences in illness at one year for conservative treatment or interventional treatment (endovascular coiling or microsurgical clipping) of unruptured intracranial aneurysms. 
Quality of the evidence 
We found little evidence on the best treatment for unruptured intracranial aneurysms. The overall quality of the evidence was very low due to the small number of participants as well as to missing outcome data. Further studies with a larger number of participants are needed. 
