Oral antivirals for preventing recurrent herpes simplex keratitis in people with corneal grafts 
What is the aim of this review?  Cochrane researchers aimed to find out if treatment with an antiviral medication at the time of the corneal graft, for example acyclovir, lowers the chance of herpes simplex virus (HSV) returning and causing inflammation (keratitis). They were also interested in whether this lowered the chance of the graft failing. They collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found three studies. 
Key messages  Low‐certainty evidence suggests that treatment with antiviral medication may lower the chances of HSV keratitis in people having a graft due to HSV infection. It may also lower the chance of the graft failing. 
What was studied in the review?  If herpes simplex virus (HSV) infects the cornea (clear front part of the eye) then it can cause inflammation (keratitis) and scarring which can cause loss of vision. Doctors can replace the cornea with a clear cornea from a donor. This is known as a corneal graft. Sometimes the corneal graft does not work well because the HSV comes back and reinfects the cornea. One option is to give antiviral medication (for example, acyclovir) at the time of corneal graft surgery to prevent the virus returning and further keratitis. This may also improve the chances of the graft surgery being successful. 
What are the main results of the review?  The review authors found three relevant studies from the Netherlands, Turkey and the USA. 
People in the studies either took antiviral medication for six months after the corneal graft surgery or they took a placebo (or no treatment). The antiviral medication was acyclovir (oral ‐ taken by mouth) in all three studies but the dose varied from 200 to 800 mg/day. One of the studies reported support from a pharmaceutical company: the tablets were provided by the company and one of the authors worked with the company. The other two studies did not report any links with pharmaceutical companies. 
