Fulvestrant in the treatment of postmenopausal women with advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence concerning the effectiveness and safety of fulvestrant in prolonging time without further progression of cancer in women with advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer. We found nine studies testing whether or not fulvestrant is superior to other treatment options. 
Background 
Seventy percent of breast cancers are sensitive to hormones, and there are a variety of endocrine therapies that lower or block female hormones to treat these cancers. Fulvestrant is one such endocrine therapy that can be used to treat hormone‐sensitive breast cancers by blocking oestrogen. It is administered by monthly injection for women with advanced disease. The definition of advanced disease is when the primary cancer in the breast has either spread to heavily involve the lymph nodes or grown to a considerably large size (stage III) or when the cancer has spread beyond the breast and the lymph nodes to other tissues or organs, or both (stage IV). The goal of treatment in these settings is to improve quality of life, reduce symptoms caused by the cancer, and extend length of life. It is noteworthy that the studies examined in this review predominantly used a lower dose of fulvestrant (250 mg) as compared to the now standard, more effective, and approved dose of 500 mg. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 7 July 2015. Our review identified nine clinical trials that compared the effectiveness and safety of fulvestrant against other standard treatments for advanced hormone‐sensitive breast cancer and pooled the data from these trials to analyse all the data together. Three different endocrine therapies were analysed as comparator drugs against fulvestrant. Two of these drugs were the aromatase inhibitors anastrozole and exemestane, which lower oestrogen levels in postmenopausal women, and the third was tamoxifen, which works by blocking oestrogen. Four of the studies were in the first‐line setting, meaning that fulvestrant was tested against these endocrine therapies as the initial treatment for advanced disease. Five of the studies tested fulvestrant in the second‐line or more setting, meaning after the women had progressed on a prior initial treatment for advanced disease. Two studies examined fulvestrant in combination with anastrozole against anastrozole alone, and the other seven studies compared fulvestrant alone with other comparator drugs. 
