Probiotics for treating eczema
Review question 
This Cochrane Review aimed to find out, by analysing data from randomised controlled trials (RCTs), if probiotics (bacteria, fungi, or yeasts) are effective in treating eczema of any severity in people of all ages when compared with placebo (an identical but inactive treatment), no treatment, or another treatment that does not include probiotics. We wanted to find out if treatment with probiotics improves the symptoms, quality of life, or severity of eczema in patients at the end of active treatment and during follow‐up after the active treatment has finished. 
Background 
Eczema is an itchy, non‐contagious, inflamed skin condition that affects between 5% and 20% of people at some time in their life. People with eczema have different bacteria in their gut compared to people without eczema, and sometimes they have inflammation in their gut. It has been suggested that eczema symptoms may be treated by changing the mix of gut bacteria or by reducing inflammation in the gut. Probiotics, which are live micro‐organisms taken by mouth, such as the Lactobacillus bacteria found in unpasteurised milk and yoghurt, might achieve this. 
This is an update of a previous Cochrane Review published in 2008; this update is important because more trials have been done since publication of the first review, and because use of probiotics is increasing and new treatments for eczema are needed. 
Study characteristics 
We included 39 randomised controlled clinical trials (RCTs) with 2599 participants, which we identified in searches up to January 2017. 
These studies included people of either gender and of all ages, although most studies assessed children who had been told by a healthcare professional that they had eczema. Participants had eczema ranging from mild to severe, and RCTs compared treatment with live micro‐organisms (probiotics) of varying dose and concentration, taken by mouth, versus no treatment, placebo, or another treatment with no probiotics. 
