Is adding an anti‐leukotriene to an inhaled corticosteroid better than using an inhaled corticosteroid alone in children with persistent asthma? 
Background: Asthma management guidelines recommend low‐dose inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) as preferred therapy for children with mild persistent asthma. In children who have inadequate control of their asthma on low doses of ICS, anti‐leukotrienes can be added to ICS. Anti‐leukotrienes are a class of anti‐inflammatory drugs for asthma. Almost a decade ago, a Cochrane review (Ducharme 2004) evaluating the addition of anti‐leukotrienes to ICS in children and adults with asthma identified only two studies of children, one of which was only published as an abstract with insufficient information to contribute data. Considering the publication of several additional studies in the past decade, we wished to update the review with the latest literature. 
Review question: To compare the effectiveness and safety of the addition of an anti‐leukotriene agent to ICS to the use of the same dose of ICS alone, an increased dose of ICS, or a reduced dose of ICS in children aged one to 18 years with persistent asthma who are not well controlled with ICS alone. 
Study characteristics: The evidence was updated until January 2013. We found five studies of children with asthma; of them, four studies, representing 559 children (aged six to 18 years) with mild to moderate asthma, contributed data to the review. No study enrolled pre‐school children (i.e. aged under six years). Three studies compared the combination of anti‐leukotrienes and ICS with the same dose of ICS alone; one study compared the combination of anti‐leukotrienes and ICS to a higher dose of ICS; and no study tested whether the addition of anti‐leukotriene to ICS could allow the tapering of the dose of ICS while maintaining asthma control. All studies used montelukast as the anti‐leukotriene agent, which was administered for four to 16 weeks. Included studies enrolled both girls and boys and between 65% and 69% were boys. All trials enrolled children with mild to moderate airway obstruction. 
Results: Whether comparing the addition of anti‐leukotrienes to ICS to the same dose or an increased dose of ICS, there was no difference in the number of participants experiencing one or more moderate exacerbations (that is, requiring oral corticosteroids) or severe exacerbations (i.e. requiring a hospital admission). A single study comparing the same ICS dose reported lung function tests and showed no or small group differences depending on the test used. 
Conclusion: There is no firm evidence to support that adding montelukast to ICS is safe and effective to reduce the occurrence of moderate or severe asthma attacks in children taking low‐dose ICS and whose symptoms remain uncontrolled. After being on the market for more than 10 years, the limited number of available studies testing antileukotrienes in children, the absence of data on preschoolers, and the inconsistency of available trials in reporting of efficacy and safety clinical outcomes is disappointing and limit the conclusions. 
Quality of the results: This review is based on a small number of identified trials conducted in children with asthma; none were conducted in preschoolers. As a single study of moderate duration reported all measures of efficacy and most measures of safety, our confidence in the quality of evidence is low. Other important measures of asthma control were either not measured or reported in different formats, so they could not be pooled. In other words, there are too few paediatric trials to conclude firmly whether either treatment is superior to the other. 
