Desmopressin use for reducing the need for blood transfusion for people having an operation 
Review question 
Could desmopressin (a medicine that can be used to prevent bleeding) reduce the need for blood transfusion when people have surgery? 
Background 
Blood loss is common during major surgery. Blood transfusions can replace blood that has been lost. Risks associated with blood transfusion include reactions against the blood, and – particularly in low‐ and middle‐income countries – infection. 
Desmopressin is a medicine commonly known as DDAVP (an abbreviation of its chemical name: 1‐deamino‐8‐D‐arginine vasopressin). It is used for people born with problems that put them at risk of bleeding, and may help people who do not have bleeding disorders. DDAVP may have side effects; for instance, it might increase risk of heart attack or stroke, or cause low blood pressure when it is given. 
Study characteristics 
We investigated whether giving DDAVP reduced the need for blood transfusion in people having surgery. 
We searched the medical literature to 3 April 2017. We identified 65 relevant trials with 3874 participants (adults and children). All trials assessed the effects of giving DDAVP before, during, or immediately after surgery or more minor procedures like biopsies. Most trials focused on adult heart surgery, or bone and joint surgery. Fewer trials focused on heart surgery for children, plastic surgery, surgery on blood vessels, or liver surgery. The trials were conducted between 1986 and 2016. Eleven were funded by pharmaceutical companies or by a party with a commercial interest in the trial’s outcome. 
Key results 
Compared with placebo (an inactive substance that looks the same as the substance being tested, i.e. DDAVP) or no treatment, DDAVP may slightly reduce the amount of blood transfused in adult heart surgery. DDAVP may lead to little or no difference in the amount of blood transfused in heart surgery for children, bone and joint surgery, surgery on major blood vessels, or liver surgery. DDAVP probably leads to little or no difference in the total number of people who receive a blood transfusion. Whether DDAVP increases or reduces total blood loss is uncertain because the quality of evidence is very low. DDAVP may lead to little or no difference in the risk of death, heart attack, or stroke. 
