Zinc supplements for tinnitus
Background 
Tinnitus is the perceived sensation of sound in the ear or head. Severe tinnitus affects 1% to 2% of the population. People with severe tinnitus frequently have psychological changes and a decrease in their quality of life. Tinnitus is difficult to control and many doctors are testing new treatments to improve the quality of life of people who suffer from this problem. This review looked for high‐quality studies in the literature that involved zinc supplements as a possible treatment for tinnitus in adults. The aim was to evaluate whether oral zinc is effective in the treatment of tinnitus. 
Study characteristics 
We included a total of three trials involving 209 participants who were treated with oral zinc pills or placebo. All patients were adults over 18 years who had subjective tinnitus. All three studies investigated improvement in tinnitus as their primary outcome. One study assessed adverse effects and our secondary outcome 'change in overall severity of tinnitus'. Two studies assessed tinnitus loudness. Only one study, which enrolled only elderly patients, used a validated instrument (the Tinnitus Handicap Questionnaire (THQ)) to measure the primary outcome. The other two studies measured tinnitus using scales (from 0 to 7 and from 0 to 10), but these scales were not validated instruments for studying tinnitus. 
Key results 
All three included studies had differences in their participant selection, length of follow‐up and outcome measurement, which prevented a meta‐analysis (combining of results). 
Only one trial (conducted in 2013) used a validated instrument (the THQ) to measure improvement in tinnitus, our primary outcome. The authors reported no significant difference between the groups. Another study (2003) reported the severity of tinnitus using a non‐validated scale (0 to 7) and found a significant difference in the subjective tinnitus scores, which favoured the zinc group. However, this result may be biased because the losses were unbalanced and higher in the placebo group. A third study (1991) also evaluated improvement of tinnitus using a non‐validated instrument (a scale of 0 to 10) and found no significant difference between groups. 
There were no severe adverse effects associated with zinc. Three cases of mild adverse effects were reported in different participants (e.g. mild gastric symptoms). 
Two studies (2003 and 2013) assessed change in tinnitus loudness (one of our secondary outcomes), but did not find a difference between patients treated with zinc compared to those who took a placebo. 
Two studies assessed change in the overall severity of tinnitus. One study, published in 1991, did not find any difference for this outcome between the groups. The second study, published in 2003, reported a significant reduction in subjective tinnitus score in the zinc group and no difference in the placebo group. However, both studies used a non‐validated scale. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence is very low. We found no evidence that the use of oral zinc supplementation improves symptoms in adults with tinnitus. This evidence is up to date to 14 July 2016. 
