Treatments for lymphocytic colitis
What is lymphocytic colitis? 
Lymphocytic colitis is a type of microscopic colitis, a condition characterized by chronic non‐bloody watery diarrhea. People with lymphocytic colitis have a normal appearing bowel when assessed by an endoscope (a camera used to look at the bowel) or an X‐ray; but have microscopic (histological) inflammation of the bowel when assessed by a biopsy (a tissue sample taken during endoscopy). The cause of this disorder is unknown. This review is an update of a previously published Cochrane review. 
What treatments have been tried for lymphocytic colitis? 
Budesonide, mesalazine with or without cholestyramine, beclometasone dipropionate and bismuth subsalicylate (i.e. Pepto‐Bismol®) have been tried as treatment for lymphocytic colitis. Budesonide is an immunosuppressive steroid drug that is quickly metabolized by the liver resulting in reduced steroid‐related side‐effects. It is taken by mouth. Beclometasone dipropionate is also a steroid drug. Steroid drugs are used to treat inflammation. Mesalazine (also known as 5‐ASA) is an anti‐inflammatory drug which is often taken by mouth. Cholestyramine is a drug that helps the body remove bile acids. Pepto‐Bismol®, is an antacid medication used to treat temporary discomforts of the stomach and gastrointestinal tract. 
What did the researchers investigate? 
The researchers investigated whether these drugs improve the symptoms of lymphocytic colitis (e.g. diarrhea) or microscopic inflammation and whether any side effects result from treatment. The researchers searched the medical literature extensively up to 11 August 2016. 
What did the researchers find? 
Five studies including 149 participants were identified. These studies assessed budesonide versus placebo (e.g. a sugar pill), mesalazine versus mesalazine plus cholestyramine and beclometasone dipropionate versus mesalazine and Pepto‐Bismol® versus placebo. The study which compared mesalazine to mesalazine plus cholestyramine and the study which compared beclometasone dipropionate to mesalazine were judged to be of low quality. The study which compared Pepto‐Bismol® bismuth subsalicylate to a placebo was judged as low quality due to a very small sample size (5 participants) and limited data. The other three studies were judged to be high quality. 
