Do azole medicines taken as a cream or drops work for treating otomycosis (a fungal ear infection)? 
Key messages 
Due to weak evidence, we do not know if:
‐ azoles taken as a cream or drops are better than no treatment or a placebo (dummy) treatment; 
‐ some azoles are better at ending infections than others.
There is a need for well‐conducted studies that investigate the risks and benefits of these treatments for otomycosis. 
What is otomycosis? 
Otomycosis is an ear infection caused by micro‐organisms called fungi (related to yeast and mushrooms). It mostly affects people who live in warm or tropical areas. Otomycosis typically causes an itchy ear, and can also cause ear pain, hearing loss and a fluid (discharge) that comes out of the ear. 
Otomycosis can be treated with many different creams or drops that fight fungi and are applied to the ears (topical treatments). The most widely used of these come from a group of medicines called azoles. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out about the risks and benefits of using topical azoles to treat otomycosis. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared topical azole treatment against:
‐ a placebo (dummy) treatment;
‐ no treatment; or
‐ other azole treatments.
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found four studies that involved 559 people from Spain, Mexico and India. Three studies included children and adults, and one included only adults. 
The studies compared:
‐ the topical azole 'clotrimazole' against a different topical azole (eberconazole, fluconazole or miconazole; three studies); and 
‐ the topical azole 'bifonazole' as a cream against bifonazole drops (one study).
No studies compared topical azoles against a placebo or no treatment.
Clotrimazole compared against other topical azoles 
The evidence suggests that, 24 days after the start of the treatment, there may be little to no difference between clotrimazole and other topical azoles in: 
‐ the number of people whose ears were no longer infected with fungi;
‐ the number of severe adverse (unwanted) effects, such as severe allergic reactions;
‐ the number of non‐severe unwanted effects.
The evidence is not robust enough for us to determine if clotrimazole:
‐ is better than other topical azoles for ending otomycosis.
Bifonazole cream compared against bifonazole drops 
The evidence is not robust enough for us to compare the benefits and risks of bifonazole cream against bifonazole drops. 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
The main limitations of the evidence are that it relies on few studies that:
‐ sometimes have conflicting results;
‐ are conducted in a few countries only; and
‐ are conducted in ways that may have introduced errors into their results.
How up to date is this evidence? 
The evidence is up to date to November 2020.
