Epidural analgesia compared with systemic opioid‐based medicines for people undergoing open abdominal aortic surgery 
Background 
Open surgery on the abdominal aorta (the main artery to the legs) requires aggressive postoperative pain management. The most commonly used pain management is epidural analgesia. This involves injecting pain‐relieving medicines through a catheter (narrow tube) that is placed in the epidural space (the outermost part of the spinal space). The alternative is systemic opioids (morphine‐like medicines injected into the bloodstream). 
Objectives 
This review evaluated the effect of these two methods of pain relief and the risks of postoperative complications and deaths after open abdominal aortic surgery. The review was originally published in 2006, updated in 2012, and again in 2015. 
Methods 
We searched scientific databases for clinical trials comparing epidural analgesia with systemic opioids in adults. Two authors independently assessed the quality of the trials and collected the data. We reran the search in March 2017. We will deal with the new study of interest when we update the review. 
Main results 
We included 15 trials published from 1987 to 2009 with 1498 participants in this updated review. The evidence is current to November 2014. The trials received financial support from a charitable organization (one study), a governmental organization (four studies) or the pharmaceutical industry (one study). The source of funding was unspecified for nine studies. We found that epidural analgesia reduced heart attacks, postoperative duration of tracheal intubation (a flexible breathing tube that is placed directly into the windpipe), risk of postoperative respiratory failure (requirement of a machine to assist the respiration after the surgery), gastrointestinal bleeding, decreased postoperative pain, and length of stay in the intensive care unit (equivalent to six hours). For death after the surgery, we did not found a difference in the death rate (in hospital or up to 30 days). The quality of evidence was low for mortality and time before tracheal extubation; meaning that further research is very likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and is likely to change the estimate. The quality of evidence was moderate for heart attacks, respiratory failure, and intensive care unit length of stay; meaning that further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of effect and may change the estimate. The quality of evidence was high for gastrointestinal bleeding and pain scores; meaning that further research is very unlikely to change our confidence in the estimate of effect. 
