Key‐hole (laparoscopic) versus standard cut (open) abdominal surgery for people with food‐pipe (oesophageal) cancer 
Review question 
How does key‐hole (laparoscopic) abdominal surgery compare to standard (open) abdominal surgery for people with food‐pipe (oesophageal) cancer? 
Background 
The oesophagus (food pipe) is located mainly in the chest; it enters the abdomen (tummy) through an opening in the diaphragm (muscle that separates the chest from the abdomen). Removing tumours by surgery (oesophagectomy) is one of the recommended treatments for cancers that are limited to the oesophagus. The tumour can be removed through an abdominal opening, a chest opening, or a combination. When the tumour is removed through an abdominal opening, it is called transhiatal oesophagectomy (as the oesophagus is separated from its surrounding structures through the opening in the diaphragm). The abdominal surgery can be performed through either a key‐hole or a standard cut. Key‐hole surgery to remove oesophageal cancer (laparoscopic transhiatal oesophagectomy) is a relatively new procedure compared to the well‐established standard cut surgery (open transhiatal oesophagectomy). In operations on other parts of the body, laparoscopic surgery has been shown to reduce complications and length of hospital stays compared to open surgery. 
However, concerns remain about the safety of laparoscopic surgery. How do complications after operation (post‐operative complications) compare between the two procedures? Does laparoscopic surgery remove the same amount of cancer and healthy border tissue as open surgery? Do people recovery more quickly after laparoscopic or open surgery? We sought to resolve these issues by searching the medical literature for studies on this topic. 
Study characteristics 
Randomised controlled trials are the best types of studies to find out whether one treatment is better than another since it ensures that similar types of people receive the new and the old treatment. But we did not find randomised controlled trials; we identified six relevant non‐randomised studies with a total of 334 patients, which compared laparoscopic and open surgeries. Since one of the studies did not provide usable results, five studies, with 326 patients, provided information for this review; laparoscopic surgery = 151 patients and open surgery = 175 patients. In four of these studies, historical information was collected from hospital records. In one study, new information was collected. In general, new information is considered to be more reliable than information from hospital records. 
Key results 
The differences between laparoscopic and open transhiatal oesophagectomy were imprecise for: deaths during the short‐term and long‐term, the percentage of people with major complications, narrowing of the new junction between the gut, created after removing the oesophagus, cancer returning during the short‐term and long‐term, and the proportion of people who required blood transfusion. The proportion of patients with any complications and the average lengths of hospital stay were less in the key‐hole group than the open cut group. There was lack of clarity about the difference in the amount of blood transfused between the two groups. None of the studies reported difficulty in swallowing after surgery, health‐related quality of life, the amount of time it took to return to normal activity (same mobility as before surgery), or work. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was very low. This was mainly because it was not clear whether participants who received laparoscopic surgery were similar to those who had open surgery. This makes the findings unreliable. Well‐designed randomised controlled trials are necessary to obtain high‐quality evidence on the best method to perform oesophagectomy. 
