Imiquimod for anogenital warts in non‐immunocompromised adults
Review question 
In this Cochrane Review we assessed the effectiveness and safety of imiquimod compared to placebo and any other patient‐applied or provider‐administered therapy for treatment of anogenital warts (AGW) in adults without impaired immune responsiveness 
Background 
Although 30% of AGW spontaneously vanish without treatment, currently there is no way to know whether a lesion will go or remain. There are a wide range of treatment options and the choice is based on the experience of the clinicians, patient preferences and adverse effects. 
Trial characteristics 
We searched the available literature up to 15 April 2014 and included 10 trials with 1734 participants. The trials included both men and women aged over 18 years with a clinical diagnosis of AGW. Eight trials included people that had been treated before for AGW and two trials included people that had not needed to be treated before for AGW. In most trials, people used 5% imiquimod three times per week and trial length ranged from eight weeks to 12 weeks. However, several included trials compared different concentrations and frequencies. Six trials compared imiquimod versus placebo (1294 participants) and two trials compared imiquimod with patient‐applied treatment (105 participants) or with another provider‐administered treatment (335 participants). Six out of ten included trials were funded by industry. 
Key results 
Compared with placebo, imiquimod was superior to achieve complete and partial regression but not in the rate of recurrence, appearance of new warts or the frequency of systemic reactions. The patients allocated to imiquimod treatment had a higher frequency of pain and local adverse reactions. When imiquimod was compared with any other patient‐applied treatment, we were unable to determine whether it led to differences in the rate of complete or partial regression, recurrence or the presence of local reactions, although systemic adverse reactions were lower in the imiquimod group. Finally, when imiquimod use was compared with any other provider‐administered treatment it was unclear whether there were differences in terms of complete regression. Imiquimod was associated with a lower rate of recurrence during the first six months after treatment and with less pain or local reactions. 
