Chelation for autism spectrum disorder (ASD)
Background 
Autism spectrum disorders (ASD) are types of disorders characterised by difficulties in social interaction and communication, and restricted and repetitive behaviours. It has been suggested that increased levels of toxic metals result in more severe symptoms of ASD, and that excretion of these heavy metals brought about by use of pharmaceutical chelating agents (chemicals that are injected into the blood stream to bind to and remove toxic heavy metals from the body) may lead to improvement of symptoms. 
Review question 
The purpose of this review was to assess the evidence for the effects of pharmaceutical chelating agents for symptoms of ASD. 
Study characteristics 
We searched multiple databases to find studies that examined pharmaceutical chelating agents as treatment for ASD symptoms. We found only one randomised controlled trial that evaluated oral dimercaptosuccinic acid (DMSA) for ASD, but this trial did not use ideal methods for answering our question. The evidence is current to November 2014. 
The trial that we found was conducted in two phases. During the first phase, 77 children with ASD were assigned randomly to receive seven days of glutathione lotion or placebo lotion, followed by three days of oral DMSA. Forty‐nine children who excreted high levels of heavy metals during phase one continued on to phase two to receive three days of oral DMSA or placebo followed by 11 days off, with the cycle repeated up to six times. 
Key results 
Results from the included study show that multiple rounds of oral DMSA did not have an effect on any of the ASD symptoms measured in children found to be high excreters who had already received three doses of a pharmaceutical chelating agent. Currently no clinical trial evidence suggests that pharmaceutical chelation is an effective intervention for ASD. Given prior reports of serious adverse events, such as changes to calcium levels in blood, kidney impairment and reported death, risks of using pharmaceutical chelating agents for ASD currently outweigh proven benefits. 
