Ibuprofen for the treatment of patent ductus arteriosus in preterm or low‐birth‐weight (or both) infants 
Review question 
Is the use of ibuprofen compared with indomethacin, other cyclo‐oxygenase inhibitors, placebo, or no intervention for closing a patent ductus arteriosus (PDA) safe and effective for improving the rate of ductal closure and other important clinical outcomes in preterm or low‐birth‐weight (or both) infants? 
Background 
A common complication for very preterm (premature) or very small babies is PDA. PDA is an open vascular channel between the lungs and the heart. It should close after birth, but sometimes remains open because of the baby's immature stage of development. PDA can lead to life‐threatening complications. The usual treatment for PDA has been indomethacin, a medicine that will successfully close the PDA in the majority of babies, but can cause serious side effects such as reduced blood flow to several organs. Another option is the drug ibuprofen. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) in preterm infants (born at less than 37 weeks into pregnancy), low‐birth‐weight (weighing less than 2500 g) infants, or preterm and low‐birth‐weight infants with a PDA. The treatments were ibuprofen, indomethacin, another cyclo‐oxygenase inhibitor, placebo or no treatment. The evidence is current to 30 November 2017. 
Key Results 
This review of 39 trials (2843 infants) found that ibuprofen was as effective as indomethacin in closing a PDA, caused fewer transient side effects on the kidneys, and reduced the risk of necrotising enterocolitis, a serious condition that affects the gut. Whether ibuprofen confers any important long‐term advantages or disadvantages on development is not known. Additional long‐term follow‐up studies to 18 months of age and to the age of school entry are needed to decide whether ibuprofen or indomethacin is the drug of choice for closing a PDA. 
