Venous blood clot prevention in people undergoing lower limb amputation
Background 
Amputation of the leg is most often performed to remove dead tissue (gangrene), painful ulcers, tumours, or tissue with an inadequate blood supply. One of the most common causes of an inadequate blood supply is a narrowing of the arteries of the legs, which accounts for approximately 70% of amputations. In people with this condition, blood clots are more likely to cause problems such as venous thromboembolism (VTE). This comprises two conditions: a blood clot in the legs (deep vein thrombosis (DVT)) or a blood clot in the arteries of the lungs (pulmonary embolism (PE)). The risk of these events occurring is higher in people undergoing amputations. There are two forms of preventive measures for VTE: drugs or compression devices. Drugs are effective in preventing VTE, but also have adverse side effects. Compression stockings or devices do not cause side effects, but are not suitable for everyone. Current guidelines recommend that any person undergoing an amputation of the lower limb should be offered drugs to prevent a blood clot. However, it is not clear which method is best for people having a lower limb amputation. This review aimed to establish the best method. 
Study characteristics and main results 
This review was first published in 2013, and we searched for any studies that have taken place since then (up to 5 November 2019). We did not find any eligible new studies for this update. The review includes the original two studies with a combined total of 288 participants. 
One study compared two forms of the anticoagulant heparin. We found no evidence of a difference between unfractionated heparin and low molecular weight heparin in the prevention of DVT. None of the participants reported any bleeding. However, in this study both the participants and study personnel were aware of which treatment was being administered. This may have biased the results. It is unclear if other bias was introduced because the study did not adequately describe the process of randomly allocating treatment. 
The second study found no evidence of a benefit for heparin compared with placebo in preventing a PE, whether the amputation was above or below the knee. Bleeding occurred in less than 10% of each treatment group, but the study authors did not report specific numbers and therefore we could not analyse this. This study did not report the methods used to conceal how treatment was allocated, but we judged it to be free from other sources of bias. 
This review found that there are too few trials to determine the most effective strategy in preventing VTE in people undergoing amputation of the lower limb. No study looked at mechanical forms of preventing VTE, such as compression devices, and therefore it is not possible to make any conclusions about these. Further good quality and large‐scale studies are required. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence provided by these studies is very low for the comparison of unfractionated heparin against low molecular weight heparin, and low for the comparison of heparin against placebo. We downgraded the certainty of evidence due to the small size and low number of studies, and concerns over the methods used (risk of bias). Further larger studies are required to determine optimal venous thromboembolism prophylaxis in people undergoing major lower extremity amputation. 
