Anti‐interleukin‐13 or anti‐interleukin‐4 agents versus placebo, anti‐interleukin‐5 or anti‐immunoglobulin‐E agents, for children and adults with asthma 
Review question 
We assessed the efficacy and safety of anti‐interleukin‐13 or anti‐interleukin‐4 agents, compared with placebo, anti‐immunoglobulin E agents, or anti‐interleukin‐5 agents, for the treatment of children, adolescents, or adults with asthma. 
Background 
Immunoglobulin E and interleukin‐5 are chemicals in the body that promote allergy (or an allergic response) in the airways and cause the symptoms of asthma. Some people with severe asthma take drugs that target immunoglobulin E or interleukin‐5, but these drugs don't work for everyone. Since interleukin‐4 and interleukin‐13 are also chemicals in our body that promote allergy (or an allergic response) in the airways, we looked at whether drugs that target interleukin‐4 and interleukin‐13 are safe and effective (compared with placebo ‐ a substance that has no therapeutic effect) for improving the symptoms or quality of life of people with asthma. 
Study characteristics 
We found 41 studies that compared anti‐interleukin‐4 or anti‐interleukin‐13 agents (or agents that target both interleukin‐13 and interleukin‐4) with placebo in people with asthma. No relevant studies were identified where anti‐interleukin‐4 or ‐13 agents were compared with either anti‐interleukin‐5 or anti‐immunoglobulin agents. Twenty‐nine of the included studies (10,604 participants) reported information that fed into this review. The evidence presented is current up to October 2020. Most of the people who took part in the included studies had moderate or severe, uncontrolled asthma and the average age of people in each study ranged from 22 to 55 years. Only four studies allowed recruitment of children and adolescents and participants in this age group accounted for less than 5% of those contributing data to his review. Most studies tested whether dupilumab, an interleukin‐4 agent (four studies), or the anti‐interleukin‐13 agents lebrikizumab (eight studies) or tralokinumab (nine studies), were better than placebo. 
Key results 
When we pooled the information provided by the 29 studies, we showed that these drugs reduced the number of people having asthma attacks and improved lung function to a level where a person would feel the benefit. Small improvements in health‐related quality of life and asthma control were also seen, but the size of these effects was not great enough for a person with asthma to feel the benefit. A 16 per cent reduction in the dose of oral corticosteroids was also observed, although our confidence in this finding is low. Although no increase in serious side effects was found (i.e. any untoward medical occurrence that results in death; is life threatening; requires hospitalisation; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; or is a birth defect), the number of people who had any side effect was increased compared with people who took placebo. The most commonly reported side effects in participants treated with anti‐interleukin‐13/‐4 agents were upper respiratory tract infections, colds, headaches or injection site reactions. The results also showed that information about blood markers (blood eosinophils and serum periostin) and the exhaled nitric oxide levels may help predict the efficacy of these medications in an individual with asthma. In summary, these drugs are likely helpful for some people with severe or uncontrolled asthma when other treatments have not worked and the purpose of the treatment is to reduce the number of asthma attacks experienced. 
Quality of the evidence 
The included studies were generally well designed and well reported. People in the studies and those performing the research did not know which treatment people were receiving, which ensures a fair evaluation of the treatments. Overall, we can be confident in the conclusions of this review. 
