Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for premenstrual syndrome
Premenstrual syndrome (PMS) is a common cause of physical, psychological and social problems in women of reproductive age. PMS is distinguished from 'normal' premenstrual symptoms by the degree of distress and disruption it causes. Symptoms occur during the period leading up to the menstrual period and are relieved by the onset of menstruation. Common symptoms include irritability, depression, anxiety and lethargy. A clinical diagnosis of PMS requires that the symptoms are confirmed by prospective recording (that is recorded as they occur) for at least two menstrual cycles and that they cause substantial distress or impairment to daily life. It is estimated that approximately one in five women of reproductive age are affected. PMS can severely disrupt a woman's daily life and some women seek medical treatment. Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) for treating PMS. They examined the research up to February 2013. 
The review included 31 randomised controlled trials which compared SSRIs with placebo in a total of 4372 women who were clinically diagnosed with PMS. SSRIs were found to be effective for reducing the overall symptoms of PMS and also for reducing specific types of symptoms (psychological, physical and functional symptoms, and irritability). SSRIs were usually taken for about two weeks before the start of the menstrual period (the luteal phase) or every day (continuously). Both regimens appeared to be equally effective, although more research is needed to confirm this. 
Adverse effects were more common in the women taking SSRIs than in those taking placebo. The most commonly occurring side effects were nausea and decreased energy. The review authors calculated that nausea is likely to occur as a drug side effect in approximately one out of seven women with PMS taking a moderate dose of SSRIs, and lack of energy is likely to occur as a drug side effect in approximately one out of every nine women. 
