What are the benefits and harms of using technology to monitor people with asthma from home? 
Take‐home message  A wide range of technologies have been developed to connect people with asthma to their healthcare professionals between routine checkups. Studies that have tested these strategies have not proved that 'telemonitoring' leads to better symptom control or fewer attacks, and could not rule out the possibility that it may cause unintended harm by making people less likely to take action when it is needed. Telemonitoring may have small benefits for quality of life and lung function, but these results are very uncertain. 
Background  Regular contact with a doctor or an asthma nurse is important to keep on top of asthma symptoms and to change inhalers if necessary. Telephone and Internet technologies are now used for lots of long‐term health conditions as a way of monitoring symptoms between visits to a clinic. For asthma, lung function and other asthma symptoms can be measured at home and information sent electronically to the doctor or nurse, who can decide whether action needs to be taken before the person is due to come back to the clinic. 
Review question  We wanted to find out whether home telemonitoring including feedback from a healthcare professional offers added benefits for people with asthma compared with their usual monitoring. 
Study characteristics  We found 18 studies including a total of 2268 people: 12 included adults, five included children and one included individuals from both age groups. Most people included in the studies had mild to moderate persistent asthma, and studies generally lasted between three and 12 months. People in the intervention group were given one of a variety of technologies to record and share their symptoms (text messaging, Web systems or phone calls) and were compared with a group of people who received usual care, or a control group. 
Main results and quality of the evidence  We could not tell whether people in the telemonitoring groups had a higher or lower chance than people in the control group of having attacks that would require a course of oral steroids, a visit to the emergency department or a hospital stay. No reports described other potential harms of home telemonitoring. Studies used lots of different types of technology, and we couldn't tell whether some were better than others. Our confidence in the results ranged from moderate to very low, meaning that additional studies are likely to change some of these results and may influence how much we believe them. 
Using technology to monitor people with asthma from home may offer benefits over usual care for overall quality of life, but the effect was small, and studies did not agree with each other. These interventions may provide benefits for lung function, but lots of people dropped out of the studies, so we couldn't be sure. 
