Beta‐blockers to prevent death or serious events after heart surgery
This review assessed evidence of whether beta‐blockers given around the time of surgery can reduce death or other serious events for people undergoing heart surgery. 
Background 
People undergoing heart surgery are at greater risk of complications and death. Heart surgery increases the amount of stress in the body, causing the release of the hormones adrenaline and noradrenaline. This stress can lead to serious events including death, heart attacks, stroke, or an irregular heartbeat. Beta‐blockers are drugs that block the action of adrenaline and noradrenaline on the heart. Beta‐blockers can slow down the heart and reduce blood pressure, and this effect may reduce the risk of serious events. However, they can also lead to a very low heart rate or very low blood pressure, and this effect may increase the risk of death or a stroke. Prevention of complications around the time of surgery is an important safety consideration for people undergoing heart surgery. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 28 June 2019. We included 63 studies with 7768 adults who were undergoing heart surgery, including coronary artery bypass graft and valve replacement surgery. Studies were mostly randomized controlled studies, and six were quasi‐randomized (participants were allocated to groups by methods such as using hospital record numbers or dates of birth). The types of beta‐blockers were: propranolol, metoprolol, sotalol, esmolol, landiolol, acebutolol, timolol, carvedilol, nadolol, and atenolol. These beta‐blockers were compared with either a placebo (disguised to look like a beta‐blocker but containing no medicine) or with standard care. Beta‐blockers were started before surgery, during surgery or at the latest by the end of the first day after surgery. The length of time beta‐blockers were given varied between studies. In most studies, at least some of the people were already taking beta‐blockers, which would be expected for people who had conditions that needed heart surgery. 
