Midwife‐led continuity models of care compared with other models of care for women during pregnancy, birth and early parenting 
What is the issue? 
There are several ways to look after the health and well‐being of women and babies during pregnancy, birth and afterwards – these ways are called ‘models of care’. Sometimes, an obstetrician or another doctor is the lead healthcare professional and at other times it is a midwife. Sometimes, the responsibility is shared between obstetricians and midwives. One of the models is called ‘the midwife‐led continuity model’. This is where the midwife is the lead professional starting from the initial booking appointment, up to and including the early days of parenting. We wanted to find out if women and babies do better with this midwife‐led continuity model, compared with other models. 
Why is this important? 
Midwife‐led continuity models provide care from the same midwife or team of midwives during the pregnancy, birth and the early parenting period, and many women value this. These midwives also involve other care‐providers if they are needed. Obstetrician‐led or family doctor‐led models are not usually able to provide the same midwife/wives throughout. We need to know if the midwife‐led continuity model is safe, and if it brings benefits to mothers and babies. 
What evidence did we find? 
We identified 15 studies involving 17,674 mothers and babies (search date 25 January 2016). We included women at low risk of complications as well as women at increased risk, but not currently experiencing problems. All the trials involved professionally‐qualified midwives and no trial included models of care that offered home birth. We used reliable methods to assess the quality of the evidence and looked at seven key outcomes: preterm birth (birth before 37 weeks of pregnancy); the risk of losing the baby in pregnancy or in the first month after birth; spontaneous vaginal birth (when labour was not induced and birth not assisted by forceps; caesarean birth; instrumental vaginal birth (births using forceps or ventouse); whether the perineum remained intact, and use of regional analgesia (such as epidural). 
The main benefits were that women who received midwife‐led continuity of care were less likely to have an epidural. In addition, fewer women had episiotomies or instrumental births. Women’s chances of a spontaneous vaginal birth were also increased and there was no difference in the number of caesarean births. Women were less likely to experience preterm birth, and they were also at a lower risk of losing their babies. In addition, women were more likely to be cared for in labour by midwives they already knew. The review identified no adverse effects compared with other models. 
The trials contributed enough high quality evidence for each key outcome to give us reliable results for each one. We can be reasonably confident that future trials would find similar results for these outcomes. 
What does this mean? 
Most women should be offered ‘midwife‐led continuity of care’. It provides benefits for women and babies and we have identified no adverse effects. However, we cannot assume the same applies to women with existing serious pregnancy or health complications, because these women were not included in the evidence assessed. 
