Medicines to prevent breast cancer in women at above‐average risk of developing breast cancer 
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer is the most frequent type of cancer and the second cause of death by cancer in women. Therefore, any strategy which can reduce its burden is eagerly awaited. Cancer prevention agents (CPAs) are medicines that might fulfil this need. Currently, two main types of CPAs are available to combat breast cancer: selective estrogen receptor modulators (SERMs, such as tamoxifen and raloxifene) and aromatase inhibitors (such as exemestane and anastrozole). Women without personal history of breast cancer, but with above‐average risk of developing this disease (that is, with a lifetime risk greater than 17%) represent the usual target population for CPAs. 
Review question 
This Cochrane Review aimed to summarize the evidence on the efficacy and toxicity of CPAs for the prevention of primary breast cancer. 
Key messages 
CPAs can reduce the incidence of breast cancer although at the cost of some toxicity. Aromatase inhibitors may be more effective than SERMs in reducing the risk of developing breast cancer. Aromatase inhibitors are not associated with the increased severe toxicity (i.e. cancer of the lining of the womb (endometrial cancer)) and thromboembolic events (blood clots)) that characterize the use of tamoxifen (although the lack of long‐term data on aromatase inhibitors in unaffected women do not allow us to draw definitive conclusions). Additional data are needed to fully address the issues of breast cancer prevention by risk‐reducing medicines, with emphasis on collecting information on side effects. 
What was studied in the review? 
The review authors found six studies enrolling 50,927 women to receive one CPA or placebo (a pretend treatment, e.g. a sugar pill). Three studies involving 23,013 women compared tamoxifen and placebo, two studies involving 8424 women compared aromatase inhibitors (exemestane or anastrozole) and placebo, and one study involving 19,490 women that compared tamoxifen and raloxifene. 
What are the main results of the review? 
Based on the three studies that compared tamoxifen to placebo, tamoxifen probably reduced the risk of developing breast cancer by 32% compared to placebo. However, tamoxifen was associated with a 28% increased risk of severe side effects compared to placebo based on two studies involving 20,361 women. In particular, women taking tamoxifen experienced higher incidence of endometrial cancer and thromboembolism than women having no medicine. 
For women who received either an aromatase inhibitor (exemestane or anastrozole) or placebo, aromatase inhibitors reduced the risk of breast cancer by 53% compared to placebo. Data from two studies involving 8352 women indicated that aromatase inhibitors increased the risk of severe side effects by 18% compared to placebo. These differences were sustained especially by endocrine (hormonal; e.g. hot flashes), gastrointestinal (e.g. diarrhea), and musculoskeletal (e.g. joint pain) side effects, whereas there were no differences in either endometrial cancer or thromboembolism rates. 
For women who received either tamoxifen or raloxifene, raloxifene probably performed worse than tamoxifen in terms of breast cancer incidence reduction, but its use was associated with a 13% reduction of toxicity rates especially endometrial cancer and thromboembolism. 
A specialized method named a 'network meta‐analysis' allowed us to compare medications never directly compared to each other in a study. Based on this network meta‐analysis, aromatase inhibitors may have led to a 23% additional risk reduction of developing breast cancer compared to tamoxifen. However, the reliability of the evidence was low meaning that further research is likely to have an impact on our confidence in this result. This analysis could not be performed on toxicity data. 
