Subintimal angioplasty for lower limb arterial chronic total obstructions
Background 
The most common symptom of arterial disease of the leg is claudication, a cramping pain caused by an inadequate supply of blood to the affected muscle. Claudication often affects the calf muscle and is typically triggered by exercise and relieved by rest. More severe restriction of the blood supply may result in pain at rest, leg ulcers, or gangrene. Arterial disease, and particularly severe claudication, may require bypass surgery or angioplasty (surgical procedure to widen narrowed or obstructed arteries or veins) to improve blood flow to the leg. However, in long arterial occlusions (obstructions) with hard plaque, normal transluminal angioplasty often fails. Subintimal angioplasty for peripheral vascular disease was first described in the 1990s. The subintimal space at the start of the occlusion is entered with a wire loop that is used to cross the occlusion with the support of catheter and re‐enter the vessel lumen of the patent (not‐obstructed) distal artery to form a new blood flow channel. This technology has enabled the development of devices such as the OUTBACK re‐entry catheter. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We identified two randomized controlled trials involving a total of 147 participants (current until January 2016). Due to differences in the techniques and outcomes measured, we were unable to combine the data from these studies. In one study, participants were randomized to receive either subintimal angioplasty (SIA) with stenting or remote endarterectomy (RE) (a surgical procedure to unblock the artery) with stenting. This study showed significantly better vessel patency (no obstruction) with RE compared to SIA. Three‐year follow‐up results showed clinical improvement measured by a Rutherford classification improvement in 64% of participants in the SIA group compared to 80% of participants in the RE group. Postexercise ankle brachial index improvements (0.2) were reported in 70% of SIA participants compared to 82% of RE participants. The technical success rate was 93% for SIA participants and 96% for RE participants. Primary patency was 56.8% in SIA compared to 76.5% in RE at 24 months, and 47.7% in SIA and 62.7% in RE at 36 months. Assisted primary patency was 52.3% in SIA compared to 70.6% in RE at 36 months. Secondary patency favored RE at 36 months. Limb salvage at three years' follow‐up was 95% in the SIA group and 98% in the RE group. There were no deaths during or around the time of the procedure, but complications occurred in two SIA participants and three RE participants. 
The other study, which compared the SIA OUTBACK device with a manual re‐entry technique, reported that technical success was achieved in all cases but did not report on clinical improvement. The primary 6‐month patency rate was 100% in the OUTBACK group (26 of 26 participants) compared to 96.2% in the manual re‐entry group (25 of 26 participants). The primary 12‐month patency rate was 92.3% in the OUTBACK group (24 of 26 participants) compared to 84.6% in manual group (22 of 26 participants). Patency rates at 24 and 36 months were not reported. Limb salvage rates at 36 months were not reported. No complications were reported. 
Quality of the evidence 
Both studies were at an overall low risk of methodological bias, but the quality of the evidence is low due to small study size and the small number of studies. Moreover, the two included trials differed from each other in the techniques and control used, preventing the combining of trial results. Since we included only two small studies, we doubt the completeness and applicability of the evidence presented in this review. Further studies are needed to reach a definitive conclusion. 
