The use of medication to treat people with antisocial personality disorder
Background 
People with antisocial personality disorder (AsPD) may behave in a way that is harmful to themselves or others, and is against the law. They can be dishonest and act aggressively without thinking. Many misuse drugs and alcohol. Certain types of medication (drugs) may help people with AsPD. This review updates one published in 2010. 
Review question 
What are the beneficial and harmful effects of medication on aggression, reconviction (reoffending), and people's ability to function in society? 
Study characteristics 
We searched for relevant studies up to 5 September 2019 and found 11 randomised controlled trials (RCT); a type of study in which people were allocated at random (by chance alone) to have either a medication (drug) or a placebo (dummy tablet). 
The studies included 416 AsPD participants, mostly male (90%), with an average age of 39.6 years. Most studies (10/11) were carried out in North America in outpatient clinics (seven studies). Two studies were conducted in mixed settings and one apiece in an inpatient hospital or prison. Studies lasted between six and 24 weeks, and had no follow‐up period. Data were only available from four of the 11 included studies for 274 participants with AsPD. 
Some studies reported on important outcomes in AsPD: aggression (six studies), global state/functioning (three studies), social functioning (one study) and adverse effects (seven studies). Some reported on other outcomes: leaving the study early (eight studies), substance misuse (five studies), employment status (one study), impulsivity (one study), anger (three studies), and mental state (three studies). No study reported data on reconviction, quality of life, engagement with services, satisfaction with treatment, housing/accommodation status, economic or prison/service outcomes. 
No study set out to recruit participants on the basis of having AsPD. Many participants presented primarily with substance abuse problems. The studies used methods that increased the risk of data being biased or untrue (e.g. not reporting all of their outcomes) and that did not allow independent statistics to be calculated for this review. 
