Do systemic corticosteroids improve treatment outcomes in flare‐ups of chronic obstructive pulmonary disease? 
Why is this question important? 
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), also referred to as emphysema or chronic bronchitis, is a long‐term lung condition commonly associated with smoking. People with COPD usually have persistent symptoms of breathlessness and may experience flare‐ups (exacerbations) on occasion, often precipitated by infection, in which symptoms become markedly worse and further medical intervention is required beyond regular treatment by inhalers. 
Systemic (i.e. not inhaled corticosteroids) such as prednisolone, prednisone and cortisone, are anti‐inflammatory drugs commonly used in the treatment of exacerbations. We wanted to assess the effectiveness of systemic corticosteroids and whether different routes of administration have impacts on response to treatment of COPD exacerbations. 
How did we answer the question? 
We looked for all studies that compared corticosteroid, given either by injections (parenterally) or tablets (orally), with matching dummy injections or tablets and all studies that compared corticosteroid given by injections with corticosteroid given by tablets. 
What did we find? 
We found 16 studies including over 1700 people with COPD who experienced a flare‐up that required additional medical treatment that compared corticosteroid given by injections or tablets with dummy treatment. Four studies with nearly 300 people compared corticosteroid injections with corticosteroid tablets. More men than women took part in the studies and they were usually in their late 60s, with moderately severe symptoms of COPD. Most studies took place in hospitals, two in intensive care units with people who needed breathing support, and three studies involved people who were treated at home. The last search for studies to include in the review was done in May 2014. 
There were three studies where people knew which treatment they were getting, but otherwise studies were generally well designed. 
People treated with either corticosteroid injections or tablets compared with dummy treatment were less likely to experience treatment failure, 122 fewer people per 1000 treated, with a lower rate of relapse by one month. They had shorter stays in hospital if they did not require assisted ventilation in an intensive care unit, and their lung function and breathlessness improved more quickly during treatment. However, they had more adverse events while taking treatment, especially a temporary increase in glucose levels in blood. Corticosteroid treatment did not reduce the number of people who died within one month of their flare‐up. 
In studies comparing two ways of giving corticosteroid, either by injections or tablets, there were no differences in treatment failure, the time in hospital or number of deaths after discharge; however, a temporary increase in glucose levels in blood was more likely with injections than tablets. 
Conclusion 
There is high‐quality evidence that is unlikely to be changed by future research that people who experience flare‐ups of COPD benefit from treatment with corticosteroid given by injections or tablets with the increased risk of some temporary side effects. 
