Bupropion for attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in adults
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence on the effects of the drug bupropion in adults with ADHD. We also reviewed adverse effects (side effects experienced as a result of taking the drug). 
Background 
ADHD is a brain disorder marked by an ongoing pattern of inattention, impulsivity and/or excessive activity, which interferes with functioning or development. Some people with ADHD only have problems with one of the behaviors, while others have a combination. Bupropion is a drug that is registered for the treatment of depression and for stopping smoking, but is also used to treat ADHD. People with ADHD are usually prescribed stimulant drugs such as methylphenidate and amphetamines. However, not everyone responds well to stimulants. Some people cannot tolerate stimulants because of side effects. Others have medical conditions such as psychiatric conditions or tic disorders that make it not possible to use stimulants. Other people may not want to use stimulants, as these are controlled substances. Nonstimulants such as bupropion are therefore sometimes used instead. Its effectiveness in treating ADHD is not yet known. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to February 2017.
Study characteristics 
We included six randomised controlled trials (RCTs), that is, studies in which participants are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups. Five of the studies took place in the USA, and the sixth in Iran. The studies included 438 people with ADHD. All evaluated a long‐acting version of bupropion, that is to say, a version of the drug is absorbed slowly, and can therefore be taken just once a day. This simple dosage suits people with ADHD, as the illness may make it difficult for them to remember to take their medication. 
The duration of the studies varied between six and 10 weeks. All participants were diagnosed with ADHD, and often had other mental health problems. In one study, all participants had ADHD and were addicted to opioids (a drug that relieves pain). 
