What are the benefits and risks of bowel reconstruction routes after partial surgical removal of the pancreas and duodenum (first part of the small intestine)? 
Key messages 
‐ Antecolic bowel reconstruction may not reduce delayed gastric emptying after partial surgical removal of the pancreatic head and duodenum. 
‐ Our results do not suggest any relevant differences between both techniques in other morbidity, mortality, length of hospital stay, and quality of life. 
Background 
The pancreas is a digestive gland situated in the upper abdomen, which is also vital to normal control of blood sugar. Pancreatic cancer is one of the leading causes of cancer death in industrialised nations. The standard surgical treatment for cancer of the head of the gland and precancerous abnormalities is partial removal of the pancreas, together with the attached duodenum, known as a pancreaticoduodenectomy. Removal of the duodenum requires the restoration of the digestive pathway from the stomach to the rest of the gut. This can be accomplished by joining it to the jejunum (second part of the small intestine) either in front of (antecolic) or behind (retrocolic) the overlying large intestine (transverse colon). 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out whether one of the above‐mentioned two routes of reconstruction provides a benefit to the patient by reducing delayed gastric emptying (emptying of the stomach after ingestion of food); postoperative mortality (death); and other complications, such as pancreatic fistula (leakage of pancreatic juice), reoperation, perioperative measures (before, during, and after the operation), or length of hospital stay; and improving quality of life. Delayed gastric emptying was the primary outcome of this review because it is one of the most frequent complications after a pancreaticoduodenectomy; it can make it difficult to take anything by mouth and interferes with the patient’s quality of life, often resulting in a prolonged hospital stay and delay of further treatment. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared antecolic with retrocolic reconstruction in patients undergoing partial removal of the pancreas together with the duodenum. We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We included eight randomised controlled trials (reported in 11 publications), reporting data on a total of 818 adult participants, who underwent pancreaticoduodenectomy for any pancreatic disease. 
Main results 
We did not identify relevant differences in delayed gastric emptying; postoperative mortality; postoperative pancreatic fistula, or other complications; reoperations; or length of hospital stay. Quality of life, only reported for a subset of participants in one trial, did not differ between the two groups. Our results do not suggest any relevant differences between antecolic and retrocolic reconstruction of the gastro‐ or duodenojejunostomy after partial pancreaticoduodenectomy. 
