Debridement of the nasal and sinus cavities in the postoperative care of patients who have had endoscopic sinus surgery for rhinosinusitis 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of postoperative debridement of the nasal and sinus cavities in patients who have had endoscopic sinus surgery for rhinosinusitis? 
Background 
Endoscopic sinus surgery is often used for patients with recurrent acute or chronic rhinosinusitis when medical treatment has been unsuccessful. After surgery, several care measures have been suggested to help patients recover. One such measure is sinonasal debridement, which means removal of blood clots, crusts and secretions from the nasal and sinus cavities, a procedure that is usually performed under local anaesthesia. 
Study characteristics 
We included four studies with a total of 152 adult participants. These studies were conducted in several countries (Norway, the United Kingdom and Canada). All of them compared debridement to no debridement after endoscopic sinus surgery. The minimum follow‐up time in the studies ranged from 3 to 12 months. Only one study reported health‐related quality of life scores and only one reported disease severity scores. However, all four studies reported scores for the appearance of the sinonasal cavities viewed through an endoscope. Adverse effects of this procedure and rates of revision surgery were not reported in any of these studies. 
Key results 
Health‐related quality of life and disease severity scores were not significantly different between those patients who underwent debridement and those who did not. All four studies demonstrated better post‐surgical endoscopic appearance in the debridement group, although the size of improvement was not statistically significant. A lower rate of intranasal scarring was noted in the patient group that underwent debridement. Nonetheless, the overall evidence for all of these outcomes is of low quality. 
Quality of the evidence 
We identified several problems or potential problems in these studies. The most important was that in each study a different protocol was used for the number of debridement interventions performed per patient and the time interval between each such intervention. In addition, the numbers of patients in the study groups were relatively small. We therefore determined the overall quality of the evidence to be low for all outcomes. The evidence in this review is up to date to May 2018. 
