Acupuncture and related interventions for the symptoms of chronic kidney disease
Background 
Patients with chronic kidney disease experience various physical and psychological symptoms, but treatment options are limited because of reduced kidney function and other chronic health problems. Acupuncture is widely used to treat common symptoms such as pain, fatigue or depressive mood in patients with chronic conditions. This review aimed to investigate the current evidence and potential role for acupuncture in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD). 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up to January 2016 and analysed 24 studies that involved 1787 participants. Of these, only seven studies provided data that could be combined for analysis. The studies reported that manual acupressure improved fatigue, depression and sleep disturbance when used as an adjunct to routine care for patients undergoing maintenance haemodialysis 4 weeks from baseline. No study assessed pain and most did not report whether adverse events of acupuncture occurred. 
Key results 
Overall, we found very low quality evidence about the effectiveness of acupuncture for symptoms of CKD. Manual acupressure combined with routine care may provide short‐term symptom relief from depressive mood, fatigue and sleep disturbance in patients undergoing haemodialysis. Findings from this review cannot support the benefits of other acupuncture techniques for patients with CKD because there were too few reliable studies. Pain is a common condition in patients with CKD. Thus, the potential role of acupuncture for pain control in patients with CKD deserves further research. 
Clinicians should carefully monitor the safety of acupuncture in patients with CKD unless sound evidence supports the safety of these interventions for CKD patients. 
Quality of the evidence 
All studies were assessed at high or unclear risk of bias, especially in terms of selection of participants and selective outcome reporting, which made the validity of their results doubtful. 
