Effects of vitamin D on linear growth and other health outcomes among children under 5 years of age 
Background 
Vitamin D is an essential nutrient that plays a major role in skeletal health. Deficiency in vitamin D has also been linked to non‐skeletal health outcomes such as growth. Stunting and poor growth among children under five years of age remain a major global challenge. Previous literature has shown that blood vitamin D level is associated with stunting and poor growth. We examined the evidence regarding vitamin D supplements and their potential effects on linear growth. We also explored other outcomes related to vitamin D status, including adverse effects. 
Study characteristics 
We included 187 reports representing 75 studies (12,122 participants), conducted most frequently in India, USA, and Canada, among children under five years of age. In addition, 33 studies were classified as currently being conducted (ongoing) and 21 studies as 'awaiting classification' because they did not provide enough information to be categorised as included, ongoing, or excluded. Comparisons included oral vitamin D supplementation versus placebo (dummy pill) or no intervention; higher‐dose vitamin D versus lower‐dose vitamin D; vitamin D plus micronutrients (vitamins or minerals or both) compared to the same micronutrients alone; and higher‐dose vitamin D plus micronutrients (vitamins or minerals or both) compared to lower‐dose vitamin D plus the same micronutrients. Two studies reported for‐profit funding, two were categorised as mixed funding (non‐profit and for‐profit), five reported that they had received no funding, 26 did not disclose funding sources, and the remaining studies were supported by non‐profit funding. 
Key findings 
Supplementation with vitamin D in comparison with placebo or no intervention probably makes little to no difference in developing hypercalciuria, probably improves length or height compared to the child's age, probably makes little to no difference in stunting, and may make little to no difference in child length or height. It is uncertain whether vitamin D in comparison with placebo or no intervention impacts the development of hypercalcaemia. 
Supplementation with a higher dose of vitamin D compared to a lower dose of vitamin D may make little to no difference in length or height compared to the child's age and developing hypercalciuria, or hypercalcaemia; and we are uncertain about the effects of higher‐dose vitamin D on linear growth. 
