Efficacy of psychostimulant drugs for cocaine dependence
Review question 
We investigated whether psychostimulant substitution was safe and effective for treating patients with cocaine dependence. 
Background 
Cocaine dependence is a frequent disorder for which no medication has been approved for treatment. Substitution therapy involves the replacement of the abused drug, which is often illegal and used several times a day, by a legal, orally administered and longer‐acting one. A substitute drug has to have similar effects as the abused one, but with a lower addictive potential, enabling drug abstinence and patient adherence to medical and psychological assistance. This strategy can increase the abstinence rate in patients with heroin and tobacco dependence. In this review, we investigated whether psychostimulant substitution with medications that have psychostimulant effect was effective for treating patients with cocaine dependence. 
Search date: the evidence is current to 15 February 2016. 
Studies and participants' characteristics 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of psychostimulants on cocaine abstinence, safety and retention to treatment in patients with cocaine dependence. We found 26 studies that had enrolled 2366 participants and investigated the effects of psychostimulants against placebo for cocaine abuse or dependence. Most participants were men (75%) in their middle age (mean age 39.6 years). About half (47.6%) were African American, and 39.3% were white. The most common way they used cocaine was smoking. All but two studies took place in the USA, and they studied the effects of nine medications with a psychostimulant effect: bupropion, dexamphetamine, lisdexamfetamine, methylphenidate, modafinil, mazindol, methamphetamine, mixed amphetamine salts and selegiline. All clinical trials provided psychotherapy. Study length ranged from 6 to 24 weeks. 
Key results 
Investigators assessed cocaine abstinence (determined by urinalysis) in participants receiving the study intervention versus those receiving placebo. Though some analyses found that cocaine abstinence was higher with psychostimulants than with placebo, we are uncertain whether psychostimulants decrease cocaine use among participants who continue to use it or if they increase the number of people who stay clean, as the quality of the evidence was very low. 
We also investigated the effect of the interventions studied on treatment retention. This outcome is important because withdrawing treatment and scheduled visits can suggest relapse to cocaine use. Psychostimulants probably make little or no difference when compared with placebo (moderate quality of evidence) 
Psychostimulants appear well tolerated and are not associated with serious adverse events. Furthermore, psychostimulants show more favourable outcomes for some groups of patients, such as methadone‐maintained, dual heroin‐cocaine addicts, for whom there were positive results on both cocaine and heroin use. 
Quality of the evidence 
We did not consider any study to be free from risk of bias. We judged the quality of evidence to be very low for the outcomes of cocaine use and sustained abstinence but moderate for retention in treatment. 
University researchers performed all studies with public funding, although eight of them also had additional private funding. 
Conclusions 
The efficacy of psychostimulants for cocaine dependence is not entirely clear, but these treatments appear promising and deserve further investigation. 
