Oxytocin injected into a vein or muscle for reducing blood loss after vaginal birth
We set out to look for evidence from randomised controlled trials on the effectiveness and safety of oxytocin injected into a vein, compared with injection into muscle, to prevent excessive bleeding immediately after vaginal birth. 
What is the issue? 
Most maternal deaths occur within the first 24 hours after delivery. Up to one‐fourth of them are caused by excessive bleeding (called postpartum haemorrhage). In low‐income countries, drugs to prevent or treat postpartum haemorrhage (uterotonics) are not always available. Oxytocin is one such drug. Oxytocin prevents excessive postpartum bleeding by helping the uterus to contract. It is given to the mother by injection into a vein or into muscle during or immediately after the birth of her baby. 
Why is this important? 
Blood loss after the birth of the baby depends on how quickly the placenta separates from the uterus and how well the uterus contracts to close the blood vessels that carried blood to the placenta. 
Oxytocin given directly into a vein has an almost immediate effect which lasts for a relatively short time. When injected into muscle, oxytocin takes a few minutes to act, but the effect is longer‐lasting. Giving injections into a vein requires special skills and sterile equipment that may not always be available. In contrast, injection into muscle is quick and requires relatively less skill. 
Oxytocin injected into a vein may sometimes cause serious side effects, such as a sudden drop in blood pressure, especially when given rapidly in a small amount of solution (undiluted). 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled trials on 19 December 2019 and identified seven studies (involving 7817 women). The studies compared oxytocin injected into a vein with injection into muscle during or immediately after the vaginal birth of the baby. All studies were conducted in hospitals and mostly recruited women giving birth vaginally to one baby at term. In all but two studies, both women and hospital staff were aware of how the oxytocin was given. This may have had an impact on results. Overall, the included studies were at moderate or low risk of bias, and the certainty of the generated evidence was generally moderate to high. 
We found that women receiving oxytocin through a vein were at lower risk for blood loss of 500 mL or more (six trials; 7731 women) and blood transfusion (four trials; 6684 women) compared with women receiving oxytocin into muscle. There was high‐certainty evidence for both of these outcomes. The administration of oxytocin through a vein probably reduced the risk for severe blood loss of 1000 mL or more, compared with oxytocin into muscle (four trials; 6681 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). The two highest‐quality studies (1512 women) found that oxytocin injection into a vein reduced the risk for blood loss of 1000 mL or more, compared with oxytocin injection into muscle. Although the two ways of giving oxytocin may have been similar in terms of women requiring additional medications to contract the uterus, we have little confidence in these results (six trials; 7327 women; low‐certainty evidence). Both routes of oxytocin appear safe with probably same number of women experiencing side effects, including low blood pressure (four trials; 6468 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). Probably fewer women receiving oxytocin through a vein experienced serious complications related to excessive bleeding, such as admission to intensive care, loss of consciousness, or organ failure (four trials; 7028 women; moderate‐certainty evidence). No mother died in any of the included studies. 
