Venlafaxine for neuropathic pain in adults
Background 
Neuropathic pain is pain that arises from damaged nerves. It is different in nature than pain that arises from damaged tissue, such as a cut, although that type of pain is also carried along nerves. Drugs that are commonly used to treat pain, such as paracetamol, ibuprofen, or morphine, are not very good at treating neuropathic pain. However, other drugs, such as gabapentin, which are also used to prevent or treat epilepsy (fits), do appear to be of some benefit in treating neuropathic pain. There is also a great deal of interest in using antidepressant drugs to treat neuropathic pain. This does not imply that the person with neuropathic pain is depressed, but simply that these drugs may have benefits in neuropathic pain. However, while some doctors prescribe antidepressants in people with neuropathic pain, their benefits have not been confirmed in large clinical trials. 
Here we reviewed clinical trials for one antidepressant drug, venlafaxine, to see if robust evidence exists that it is effective in treating neuropathic pain. 
Study characteristics 
In detailed searches of the medical literature, we found six trials that were suitable for inclusion in our analysis, that together included 460 adults. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
All six trials were conducted in an approved statistical manner (randomised and double‐blinded); however, all had limitations that could lead to an overestimation of efficacy in treating this type of pain. Four were of very small size and five were of short duration, both of which can bias the results of chronic pain trials. Although it was not possible to combine the results of all trials to make an overall conclusion, individually they did all show some, albeit moderate, benefit for venlafaxine in treating neuropathic pain. Usually this benefit was achieved at doses of 75 to 225 mg per day. Known side effects of venlafaxine, including sleepiness, dizziness, and mild gastrointestinal problems, were reported by some studies, but were not particularly problematic. 
