Chemotherapy for children with medulloblastoma
Background 
Medulloblastoma is one of the most common malignant brain tumours in children. Chemotherapy is used to improve survival and diminish potential radiotherapy‐induced side effects. The reduction of radiotherapy‐induced side effects is achieved in very young children by not treating them with radiotherapy and in older children by diminishing the craniospinal radiotherapy (radiotherapy applied to the brain and spinal cord) dose and by reducing the boost volume to the tumour bed only instead of the whole posterior fossa (part of the brain). A well‐informed decision on the use of chemotherapy in the treatment of medulloblastoma in children should be based on high‐quality evidence on both the effectiveness against the tumour and side effects. 
Study characteristics 
We searched databases for randomised trials (studies where participants are allocated to one of two or more treatment groups in a random manner) evaluating the effectiveness of treatment including chemotherapy versus treatment not including chemotherapy (seven available studies) and on randomised studies evaluating the effectiveness of standard‐dose radiotherapy without chemotherapy versus reduced‐dose radiotherapy plus chemotherapy (one available study) in children (aged 0 to 21 years). The evidence is current to August 2013. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Based on the evidence identified in this systematic review a benefit of chemotherapy cannot be excluded, but at this moment we are unable to draw a definitive conclusion to favour treatment with or without chemotherapy. Even though randomised studies are the highest level of evidence, it should be recognised that data from non‐randomised studies were available, for example on the use of chemotherapy only in very young children. The results are promising for children without metastatic disease. For treatment with standard‐dose radiotherapy without chemotherapy as compared with reduced‐dose radiotherapy with chemotherapy, we also cannot make definitive recommendations. More high‐quality research is needed. 
