Drug therapy for delirium in terminally ill adults
Background 
Delirium is common in people with a terminal illness. A person experiencing delirium may be confused, lack concentration, have disturbed patterns of sleep and waking, and experience hallucinations. Delirium can start suddenly and can cause distress to both the person and their family. Delirium may be caused by the underlying disease with which the person is affected, or as a side effect of drugs or other symptoms. Often it is not clear why a person has delirium. The multifaceted nature of delirium makes its management challenging. When it is not possible to identify the underlying cause, drug treatments are sometimes used to manage the symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
The aim of this review was to find out what we know about the effectiveness and side effects of drugs in the management of delirium in adults with a terminal illness. For the purpose of this review, terminally ill adults includes anyone with an advanced progressive illness such as advanced cancer, advanced dementia or organ failure, as well as those receiving hospice and end‐of‐life care. We compared drug therapy with placebo (a substance with no known active effect), usual care, or any other drug or non‐drug treatment. 
Key results 
Our search to July 2019 found four trials, involving 399 adults in total. Participants had advanced cancer (three studies) or advanced AIDS (one study), and all had symptoms of delirium. The drugs evaluated were antipsychotics (three studies) or benzodiazepines (one study), compared to placebo or each other, on their own or in combination with another drug or placebo. 
Most studies reported the outcomes we deemed most important: delirium symptoms, agitation, and adverse events (side effects). 
It was not possible to combine the data from different studies due to a lack of similarity between them. We found low‐quality evidence that certain drugs (haloperidol and risperidone) may slightly worsen delirium symptoms for terminally ill adults with mild‐ to moderate‐severity delirium. We found moderate‐quality evidence that haloperidol probably slightly increases adverse side effects for people with mild‐ to moderate‐severity delirium. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. Very low quality evidence means that we are very uncertain about the results. High‐quality evidence means that we are very confident in the results. We found no high‐quality evidence. This was due to the small number of people taking part, the number of people dropping out of the studies, and the small number of studies. 
