Treatments for ascites in people with advanced liver disease
What is the aim of this Cochrane review? To find out the best available treatment for ascites (abnormal build‐up of fluid in the tummy) in people with advanced liver disease (liver cirrhosis, or late‐stage scarring of the liver with complications). People with cirrhosis and ascites are at significant risk of death. Therefore, it is important to treat such people, but the benefits and harms of different treatments available are currently unclear. The authors of this review collected and analysed all relevant research studies with the aim of finding what the best treatment is. They found 49 randomised controlled trials (studies where participants are randomly assigned to one of two treatment groups). During analysis of data, authors used standard Cochrane methods, which allow comparison of only two treatments at a time. Authors also used advanced techniques that allow comparison of multiple treatments simultaneously (usually referred as 'network (or indirect) meta‐analysis'). 
Date of literature search May 2019 
Key messages None of the studies were conducted without flaws, and because of this, there is very high uncertainty in the findings. Approximately one in three trial participants with cirrhosis and ascites who received the standard treatment of drainage of fluid (paracentesis) plus fluid replacement died within 11 months of treatment. The funding source for the research was unclear in 21 studies; commercial organisations funded four studies. There were no concerns regarding the source of funding for the remaining 24 trials. 
What was studied in the review? This review looked at adults of any sex, age, and ethnic origin, with advanced liver disease due to various causes and ascites. Participants were given different treatments for ascites. The authors excluded studies in people who had previously had liver transplantation. The average age of participants, when reported, ranged from 43 to 64 years. The treatments used in the trials included paracentesis plus fluid replacement (currently considered the standard treatment), different classes of diuretics (drugs which increase the passing of urine), and transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (an artificial channel that connects the different blood vessels that carry oxygen‐depleted blood (venous system)) within the liver to reduce the pressure built‐up in the portal venous system, one of the two venous systems draining the liver. The review authors wanted to gather and analyse data on death (percentage dead at maximal follow‐up), quality of life, serious and non‐serious adverse events, time to liver transplantation, resolution of ascites, and development of other complications of advanced liver disease.  What were the main results of the review? The 49 studies included a small number of participants (3521 participants). Study data were sparse. Forty‐two studies with 2870 participants provided data for analyses. The follow‐up of the trial participants ranged from less than a week to seven years. The review shows that there is low‐ or very low‐certainty evidence for the following: 
‐ Approximately one in three people with cirrhosis and ascites who received the standard treatment of drainage of fluid (paracentesis) plus fluid replacement died within 11 months. ‐ None of the interventions decrease percentage of deaths, number of complications, and liver transplantation compared to paracentesis plus fluid replacement. ‐ Transjugular intrahepatic portosystemic shunt may be nine times more effective in resolution of ascites compared to paracentesis plus fluid replacement. ‐ Adding aldosterone antagonists (a class of diuretics) may be 30 times more effective in resolution of ascites compared to paracentesis plus fluid replacement. ‐ Using aldosterone antagonists plus loop diuretics (another class of diuretics) as a substitute for paracentesis plus fluid replacement may double the development of other liver complications of cirrhosis. ‐ None of the trials that compared other treatments to paracentesis plus fluid replacement reported health‐related quality of life or symptomatic recovery from ascites. ‐ Future well designed trials are needed to find out the best treatment for people with cirrhosis and ascites. 
