Is carvedilol more effective or safer than traditional, non‐selective beta‐blockers for people with cirrhosis and gastroesophageal varices? 
Background 
Cirrhosis is a chronic disorder of the liver that results in an increase in its stiffness. As a result of the increased stiffness, the pressure in the blood vessels draining into the liver ‐ the portal system ‐ is increased. The increased portal blood pressure can result in the development of abnormally dilated blood vessels or varicose veins in the stomach and oesophagus (gastroesophageal varices). These varices can burst and the bleeding that follows can be life‐threatening. Drugs that reduce the portal blood pressure can help deflate the gastroesophageal varices and hence reduce the risk of bleeding. The drugs most commonly used are called non‐selective beta‐blockers. A newer drug, carvedilol, is also a beta blocker but has additional actions and may be more effective at reducing the portal pressure and hence the risk of variceal bleeding. 
Review question 
We investigated the effects and safety of carvedilol in people with cirrhosis and oesophageal varices by reviewing clinical trials in which people were randomly allocated to treatment with carvedilol or to a traditional beta‐blocker. 
Search date 
May 2018
Trial funding sources 
Two of the 11 randomised clinical trials included in the review received no funding or other support from pharmaceutical companies. Two did receive financial support from pharmaceutical companies while a further three received free supplies of the trial drugs. Four trials did not provide funding information. 
Trial characteristics 
We included 11 randomised clinical trials, but were only able to gather information for our analyses from 10 trials involving 810 participants. The length of treatment ranged from one week to 30 months. 
Key results 
Our analyses found no differences in the effects of carvedilol on the rates of death, bleeding or serious and non‐serious complications compared with traditional, non‐selective beta‐blockers. Carvedilol lowered the portal pressure more effectively than the traditional, non‐selective beta‐blockers, but did not increase the number of participants in whom the pressure was reduced enough to reduce the risk of bleeding. 
