Double‐bundle versus single‐bundle reconstruction for anterior cruciate ligament rupture in adults 
Anterior cruciate ligament injury is a common soft‐tissue knee injury. Patients with anterior cruciate ligament deficiency, especially young physically active males, usually do not return to pre‐injury level of activities due to knee instability. Surgical treatment of ACL rupture involves reconstruction of the anterior cruciate ligament by use of a graft (a piece of tendon usually obtained from the patient) that is passed through tunnels drilled into the tibia and femur at the insertion points of the ligament and then fixed. Repair may use a single‐bundle or double‐bundle technique. The ACL mainly consists of two distinct portions or 'bundles'. In single‐bundle reconstruction, one of these bundles is restored whereas in double‐bundle reconstruction, both are restored. Double‐bundle reconstruction may give greater knee stability but is more technically demanding and invasive than single‐bundle reconstruction. This review aimed to find out if double‐bundle reconstruction gives a better result than single‐bundle reconstruction. 
Seventeen trials were included. These involved 1433 patients, who were mostly young physically active adults. All included trials had methodological weaknesses that are likely to undermine the reliability of their results. Data for pooling individual outcomes were available for a maximum of nine trials. 
There was not enough evidence of differences between two groups in terms of functional knee scores, adverse effects and complications (infection, hardware problem such as pain from fixation device, graft failure), range of motion (flexion and extension deficit). At long term follow‐up, some clinician‐assessed measures of knee stability and repeated rupture rate or occurrence of new meniscal injuries were better after double‐bundle reconstruction. 
We concluded that there was not enough evidence to say whether double‐bundle reconstruction gives better results than single‐bundle reconstruction for anterior cruciate ligament rupture in adults. However, there is limited evidence that double‐bundle ACL reconstruction has some superior results for knee stability and protection against repeat ACL rupture or newly occurring meniscal injury. 
