Can dental professionals help people to stop smoking or using tobacco products?
Keeping your mouth healthy 
Tobacco can be smoked, chewed or sniffed (as snuff). The best thing that people who use tobacco products can do for their health is to stop using them. This lowers the risk of lung cancer and other diseases, including mouth cancer and gum disease. 
Many people visit a dental professional at least once a year; some may visit more often. Dental professionals could motivate people to stop using tobacco by telling them about the health risks of continuing and the health benefits of quitting. Dental professionals include: 
· dentists;
· dental hygienists;
· dental therapists; and
· dental nurses (referred to as dental assistants in some countries).
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to find out if dental professionals could help people to stop using tobacco by offering them advice and support. We also wanted to know if support from dental professionals had any unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that tested whether advice and support from dental professionals helped people to stop smoking, chewing or sniffing tobacco. 
We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the people taking part were assigned to different treatment groups using chance to decide which people received support to stop using tobacco. This type of study usually gives reliable evidence about the effects of a treatment. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to February 2020. 
What we found 
We found 20 studies in 14,897 people who used tobacco products (smoking, chewing or sniffing tobacco). The studies took place in the USA (13 studies), the UK (two studies), Sweden (two studies), Japan (one study), Malaysia (one study) and India (one study). Most studies (16) were in dental clinics and four were conducted in schools or colleges. 
All studies used behavioural programmes to help people stop using tobacco; these programmes aimed to boost motivation and offer advice on stopping. Four studies also included offering people nicotine replacement therapy (NRT) or e‐cigarettes as well as a behavioural programme. 
