Compression bandages or stockings versus no compression for treating venous leg ulcers
Key messages 
Compared with not using compression, compression therapy that uses bandages or stockings to treat venous leg ulcers: 
‐ probably heals venous leg ulcers more quickly;
‐ probably increases the number of people whose ulcer has completely healed after 12 months; 
‐ probably reduces pain; and
‐ may improve some aspects of people’s quality of life.
However, there is still uncertainty about whether or not compression therapy causes unwanted side effects, and if the health benefits of using compression outweigh its cost. 
What are leg ulcers? 
Leg ulcers are open skin wounds on the lower leg that can last weeks, months or even years. Most leg ulcers are caused by venous diseases that affect the circulation of blood in leg veins. Venous leg ulcers can cause distress and pain to patients, and can be very costly to the health service. 
What did we want to find out? 
Standard treatment options for venous leg ulcers often include compression therapy. This involves applying external pressure around the lower leg to help the return of blood from the legs to the heart. Compression therapy uses bandages, stockings or other devices. 
We wanted to find out if compression therapy delivered by bandages and stockings compared with no compression: 
‐ heals venous leg ulcers;
‐ has any unwanted effects;
‐ improves people’s quality of life;
‐ has health benefits that outweigh the costs (cost‐effectiveness); and
‐ reduces pain.
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where the treatment or care people receive is chosen at random). This type of study design provides the most reliable health evidence about the effects of a treatment. We searched for studies that evaluated the effects of any types of compression bandages or stockings compared with no compression in people affected with venous leg ulcers in any care setting. We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 14 studies (1391 people, average age: 70.1 years) that lasted on average for 12 weeks. People in eight of the 14 studies were treated in outpatient and community settings. People had venous leg ulcers that had lasted for 22 months on average, and most ulcers had an area between 5 and 20 cm2. 
The studies used three types of compression therapy: short‐stretch bandage, four‐layer compression bandage, and Unna's boot (a type of compression bandage containing zinc oxide). These therapies were compared with no compression in forms of 'usual care', pharmacological treatment, a variety of dressings, and a variety of treatments where only some participants received compression (but it was not the norm). 
(1) Venous leg‐ulcer healing and unwanted effects  
Compared with no compression, the evidence suggests that:
‐ people wearing compression bandages or stockings probably experience complete ulcer healing more quickly; and 
‐ more people treated using the compression bandages or stockings are likely to experience complete ulcer healing within 12 months. 
However, we did not find clear evidence to tell if using compression bandages or stockings causes any unwanted effects. 
(2) Other effects  
The evidence suggests that, compared with not using compression, the use of compression bandages or stockings: 
‐ probably reduces pain more than not using compression; and
‐ may improve some aspects of people’s quality of life in 12 weeks to 12 months.
However, we are uncertain if the use of compression bandages or stockings results in health benefits that outweigh their costs. 
What limited our confidence in the evidence? 
Most studies were small (51 people on average) and 10 of the 14 included studies used methods that could introduce errors in their results. 
