CERA treatment for anaemia in people with chronic kidney disease
What is the issue? 
Several treatments are available to treat anaemia in people who have kidney disease. These treatments boost the body's ability to produce red blood cells that take oxygen from the lungs and carry oxygen around the body. The kidney normally releases this hormone that prevents anaemia, but when the kidney function is low this hormone is insufficient to maintain an optimal level of red blood cells. 
Several synthetic versions of this hormone (called erythropoietin) are used as drugs that can be given into the skin or the directly blood stream and can completely correct anaemia from kidney disease. Several different treatment versions of erythropoietin are available in some parts of the world ‐ these treatments generally differ by how often they need to be given to have an effect. The oldest versions of the drug (epoetin) need to be given several times per week, whereas newer drugs (darbepoetin and CERA) can be given much less often. 
Unfortunately, when high doses of anaemia treatments are used to achieve high haemoglobin levels, they can increase the risks of complications like a heart attack or stroke. Because of this risk, people are advised to use the dose of anaemia treatment that gives relief from the problems of anaemia (tiredness, breathlessness) but to avoid higher doses that may cause problems. However, it is not certain whether the different versions of the anaemia drugs have different risks of complications. 
What did we do? 
This review looked at whether CERA has different complication rates and benefits from correcting anaemia (improved quality of life) than other anaemia treatments. 
What did we find? 
We found 27 studies involving over 5410 people with kidney disease that looked at the benefits and complications of different anaemia treatments, comparing the newer anaemia treatment (CERA) with the older treatments (darbepoetin and epoetin alfa or beta). We found that it was uncertain whether anaemia drugs had different effects on heart disease complications, life expectancy, or anaemia in the people receiving treatment to increase their blood count. There was no information about whether CERA led to better quality of life for people receiving this drug. 
