Can physical exercise improve blood flow through the veins?
Background
Veins are a type of blood vessel that carry blood from the body back to the heart (termed venous blood return). The process is aided by contractions of a series of muscle pumps within the legs. Problems with the veins or muscle pumps in the legs in some people can impair this process, resulting in a condition known as chronic venous insufficiency (CVI). CVI may cause pain, oedema (the retention of fluid leading to swelling) and leg ulcers, and can impair a person's quality of life. Research suggests that treatments, such as physical exercise, that aim to increase the movement of the ankle joint and strengthen the muscle pump in the calf of the leg may be useful to prevent worsening of the disease and its consequences. We have looked at the evidence supporting physical exercise as a treatment for CVI. 
Study characteristics and key results
This review included two clinical trials, involving a total of 54 participants, that compared directly the effects of physical exercise and a control intervention (evidence current until May 2016). One study reported no difference between the exercise and control groups whereas the second reported a reduction in symptoms in the exercise group. At the end of the study, an improvement in venous blood return was observed in the exercise group compared with the control group. The included studies did not report on new cases of venous leg ulcers. No difference between the exercise and control groups was observed with regard to participants' quality of life, the range of motion of the ankle joint or overall muscle strength. The overall finding of an improvement in venous blood return in the exercise group favours the idea that physical exercise improves blood flow conditions in people with CVI, but we found the risk of bias due to blinding or randomisation to be high for both studies. We therefore consider that there is currently not enough information to determine whether physical exercise is effective in the management of CVI. 
Quality of the evidence
We judged the overall quality of evidence as very low: the two included studies were small (54 participants in total) and were at high risk of bias based on their methods of blinding or randomisation. 
