Drugs that aim to relieve clinical symptoms of tuberous sclerosis complex
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of rapamycin or rapalogs for reducing the severity of clinical symptoms in people with tuberous sclerosis complex. 
Background 
Tuberous sclerosis or tuberous sclerosis complex is a genetic disease caused by mutations in tuberous sclerosis complex 1 or tuberous sclerosis complex 2 genes that affects several organs such as the brain, kidneys, heart, lungs and skin. The incidence has been reported to be one in approximately 6000. Previous studies have shown potential benefits of rapamycin or rapalogs for treating people with tuberous sclerosis complex. Although everolimus (a rapalog) is currently approved by the FDA (U.S. Food and Drug Administration) and EMA (European Medicines Agency) for tumours associated with tuberous sclerosis complex (renal angiomyolipoma and subependymal giant cell astrocytoma), the use of these drugs for treating other symptoms of the condition has yet to be established. This review aims to bring together clinical trials in this area to establish the clinical value of rapamycin and rapalogs for various symptoms of tuberous sclerosis complex. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 14 March 2016.
Study characteristics 
The review included three studies with 263 people with tuberous sclerosis complex aged between 0.8 and 61 years of age. However, one study involved five people with sporadic lymphangioleiomyomatosis (without tuberous sclerosis complex) which we could not remove from the analysis. Studies compared rapamycin or rapalogs with placebo and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. The duration of the studies was variable. Two of the included studies were funded by Novartis Pharmaceuticals. 
Key results 
There is evidence that oral everolimus (rapalog) increased the number of people who achieved a 50% reduction in the size of subependymal giant cell astrocytoma and renal angiomyolipoma. Oral everolimus also showed benefit in terms of response to skin lesions, although applying rapamycin to the skin only showed a tendency for improvement. Those who received treatment had a similar risk of experiencing adverse events as compared to those who did not receive treatment. However, more people receiving the active treatment had severe adverse events causing them to withdraw from the trial, temporarily stop treatment or reduce their dose compared to the control group. 
Quality of the evidence 
Two of the included studies generally showed a low risk of bias in study design, except for one study where it was unclear whether people knew which group they would be put into. Another included study showed different degrees of risk of bias with regards to study design, for example, due to missing data and lack of clarity about how people where put into the different groups. The results from the studies were generally of high quality, except for response to skin lesions from topical rapamycin due to missing outcome data and seizure frequency due to the way participants were selected. 
