Acupuncture for delayed emptying of the stomach
Review question 
Is acupuncture beneficial for symptoms of delayed emptying of the stomach?
Background 
Gastroparesis is a condition where the stomach empties more slowly than normal, in the absence of a blockage. Causes include damage to the nerves to the gut (autonomic failure, most commonly as a result of diabetes), viral infections, and complications of surgery. Symptoms include feeling full very soon after starting to eat, feeling uncomfortably full after eating, nausea, regurgitation, sickness, and bloating. Many people have no symptoms, but this Cochrane Review focuses on people with symptoms. 
Study characteristics 
We analysed 32 studies that involved a total of 2601 participants. Most trials involved people with diabetic gastroparesis, who received short‐term treatment (often four weeks). Non‐profit funding bodies (the Chinese government and a university) funded six out of the 32 studies and the others did not report the funding source. One study compared real acupuncture with sham acupuncture (needling on non‐acupuncture points). Twenty‐eight trials compared acupuncture to a drug, or acupuncture with a drug or to the drug alone. A small number of trials compared acupuncture plus a non‐drug treatment to the same treatment alone. The drugs in the trials were mostly gastrokinetic agents (such as domperidone, mosapride, and cisapride), which promote stomach emptying. 
Key results 
Despite there being a small reported effect, we are uncertain about any benefit of acupuncture for symptomatic gastroparesis in the short term, when used alone or added to other treatments for gastroparesis (gastrokinetics, other medicines, or 'routine care'), due to the evidence being of very low certainty. There is no information to help understand any long‐term benefits of acupuncture. The effects of acupuncture on symptoms of gastroparesis are probably little different from those of sham acupuncture in the short term. It is unclear whether acupuncture helps in gastroparesis after surgery or when the cause of gastroparesis is unknown, because there is not enough information. No trial studied the effects of acupuncture on quality of life or delayed emptying of the stomach. We do not know whether acupuncture is safe for people with diabetes who have delayed emptying of the stomach, because safety was incompletely reported in most trials. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Overall, the certainty of evidence is very low. Most studies had design issues. We suspected the existence of unpublished studies and it was not possible to be sure whether those we identified fully reported their findings. There was no consistent definition of improvement across studies. Any reported benefit may not be accurate and should be interpreted with caution. Future trials should focus on valid measures of treatment effects reported directly by patients, and assessment of stomach emptying. Trials should meet quality standards for design and transparent reporting. 
The evidence is current to March 2018.
