Improving the outcome of people with primary brain tumours and their carers using early palliative interventions 
Why this question is important 
Brain tumours can have a significant impact on people and their carers. Brain tumours can impair people's physical, neurocognitive, and social functioning, which can affect the whole family, particularly informal caregivers, who often receive inadequate support. There is evidence in other cancers that providing access to palliative support in the early stages of a person's illness can help to improve their, and their caregivers', quality of life. However, it has not been confirmed that this is the case for people with brain tumours. 
Objectives 
We aimed to assess studies that included early palliative care interventions, including referral to specialist palliative care services compared to usual care, for improving outcomes in adults diagnosed with a primary brain tumour and their carers. 
How we searched for evidence 
We searched electronic medical literature databases for studies that included a range of different types of medical trials, both published and ongoing. We handsearched the reference lists of key papers and searched for key authors of research in the area. We included adults confirmed with a primary brain tumour and informal caregivers such as relatives. 
What we found 
We could not find any trials examining the impact of specialist palliative care teams on outcomes for patients or their carers. We included one trial which focused on a single symptom area – that of cognition – in a patient group of whom about half had a high‐grade tumour. The trial randomised patients between a group receiving a structured cognitive rehabilitation intervention and a group receiving usual rehabilitation care of medications and physiotherapy. Cognitive rehabilitation consisted of supervised computer‐based exercises, lasting 45 minutes at a time, four times a week, over a four‐week period. There was no important difference between the two groups apart from some improvement in visual attention and verbal memory in those who received the cognitive rehabilitation intervention. However, we assessed the certainty of the evidence as being very low, and we could find no evidence in this or other studies on any other aspect of palliative care. 
What this means 
Not enough research has been undertaken on early palliative care interventions which support people with primary brain tumours, and their caregivers. Research is needed which examines co‐ordinated approaches to overall palliative care provision, and interventions which focus on specific aspects of palliation in this population. 
