A breathing intervention for shortness of breath due to heart failure
Background 
Heart failure is one of the leading causes of hospital admission in the world. People with heart failure often experience shortness of breath and leg swelling. These symptoms may develop over hours to weeks, or rapidly over a few hours. Such rapid deterioration is called acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. 
Providing air under pressure through a face or nose mask can treat shortness of breath. This treatment is called non‐invasive ventilation and its use in heart failure is controversial. 
Study characteristics 
Randomised controlled studies compare treatments to find out if they are truly effective. We searched for randomised studies comparing non‐invasive ventilation to routine care for adults with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema. We compared studies treating people with non‐invasive ventilation versus medical care. Medical care includes therapies such as providing extra oxygen and water pills to patients. The evidence upon which this review is based is current to September 2018. 
Review question 
We sought to address if non‐invasive ventilation in adults with acute cardiogenic pulmonary oedema reduces rates of deaths, the need for a breathing tube, and heart attacks. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
We found 24 studies with 2664 participants comparing non‐invasive ventilation to medical care alone. Non‐invasive ventilation may decrease the chances of dying in hospital. The quality of results for studies reporting death in hospital was low. Studies were poorly conducted, and results were not similar across studies. In addition, non‐invasive ventilation probably reduces the chances of needing a breathing tube. The quality of results for studies reporting breathing tube rates was moderate. Studies evaluating breathing tube rates were poorly conducted. Non‐invasive ventilation probably has little or no effect on getting a heart attack. The quality of results for studies reporting heart attack rates was moderate, and studies had inconsistent results for this outcome. We are unsure if the length of hospital stay is improved with non‐invasive ventilation. The quality of results for studies reporting hospital length of stay was very low, which was due to poor study conduct and inconsistent results. Finally, non‐invasive ventilation may make little or no difference to adverse events (complications), compared to medical care. The quality of results for studies reporting adverse events was low. Studies evaluating adverse events were poorly conducted and had inconsistent results. 
