Metformin for ovulation induction in women with a diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome and subfertility 
Review question 
Researchers reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of metformin compared with other ovulation induction agents, for inducing ovulation in women with polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS). Of interest were live birth rate, gastrointestinal side effects and additional reproductive outcomes. 
Background 
Women with PCOS often have infrequent or no periods because they do not ovulate (release an egg), which can result in infertility. They may also develop problems such as obesity and diabetes. High levels of insulin, a hormone that allows the body to use sugar for energy, may be a cause of PCOS and levels are generally higher in obese women. Metformin helps the body use insulin more effectively and improves ovulation in women with PCOS. However, metformin may cause side effects such as nausea, diarrhoea or constipation (gastrointestinal side effects). 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies in women with PCOS that compared metformin alone or with CC, letrozole or LOD, against CC, letrozole, LOD, placebo (sham treatment) or no treatment. This review updates the previous version of the review. We included 41 randomised controlled trials (where women were randomly allocated to a treatment) with 4552 women. 13 studies are new for this update. We combined results from the studies and assessed the quality of the studies to judge how confident we could be in their results. The evidence is current up to December 2018. 
Key results 
Metformin versus placebo/no treatment 
Metformin may increase the chances of having a live birth compared with no treatment or placebo, however women taking metformin probably experience more gastrointestinal side effects. With placebo, the live birth rate is 19%, and it would be between 19% and 37% with metformin. The risk of gastrointestinal side effects is 10% with placebo, but higher with metformin, between 22% and 40%. Women taking metformin are probably more likely to get pregnant and may be more likely to ovulate. We are uncertain about the effect of metformin compared to placebo or no treatment on miscarriage. 
Metformin plus CC versus CC alone 
We are uncertain if metformin plus CC improves live birth rate compared to CC alone, but gastrointestinal side effects are probably more common. The live birth rate with CC alone is 24% which may change to between 23% to 34% with metformin and CC combined. With CC alone, the risk of gastrointestinal side effects is 9%, which increases to between 21% to 37% with metformin and CC combined. However, pregnancy rate is probably improved with metformin and CC. Ovulation rates may be improved with metformin and CC. There was no clear evidence of an effect on miscarriage. 
