Exercise training for dust‐related respiratory diseases
Research question  Exposure to harmful dusts or particles (such as asbestos), which may occur at work or outside of the work setting, can lead to respiratory diseases. These are called dust‐related respiratory diseases and include diseases such as asbestosis. People with dust‐related respiratory diseases may experience decreases in exercise capacity and quality of life. Therefore the research question for this review was: does exercise training improve exercise capacity and quality of life in people with dust‐related respiratory diseases? 
Why the review is important  There are very few treatments available for people with dust‐related respiratory diseases. Exercise training in other chronic respiratory diseases helps to improve exercise capacity and quality of life. However, exercise training for people with dust‐related respiratory diseases has not been examined well. 
Studies we found  We included two studies with a total of 40 people (35 from one study and five from a second study). Of these people, 21 participated in exercise training and 19 did not participate in exercise training. All people were men and they were between 55 and 86 years old. Both exercise training programmes included cycling and walking and one programme also included strength training exercises. In both studies, training lasted for eight weeks with people attending two to three sessions per week. 
Key results  Immediately following exercise training, people walked an average of 53.81 metres further in a six‐minute walk test than those who did not complete exercise training. Six months following exercise training, people walked 52.68 metres further in a six‐minute walk test than those who did not complete exercise training. These improvements in exercise capacity were similar for people with dust‐related interstitial lung disease and people with asbestos related pleural disease. Quality of life also improved more in people who exercised compared to those who did not. No one reported experiencing any unwanted effects due to exercise training. 
