Antibiotics and antiseptics for surgical wounds healing by secondary intention
What are surgical wounds healing by secondary intention? 
These are surgical wounds which are left open to heal through the growth of new tissue, rather than being closed in the usual way with stitches or other methods which bring the wound edges together. This is usually done when there is a high risk of infection or a large amount of tissue has been lost from the wound. Wounds which are often treated in this way include chronic wounds in the cleft between the buttocks (pilonidal sinuses) and some types of abscesses. 
Why use antibiotics and antiseptics to treat surgical wounds healing by secondary intention? 
One reason for allowing a wound to heal by secondary intention after surgery is that the risk of infection in that wound is thought to be high. If a wound has already become infected, then antibiotics or antiseptics are used to kill or slow the growth of the micro‐organisms causing the infection and prevent it from getting worse or spreading. This may also help the wound to heal. Even where wounds are not clearly infected, they usually have populations of micro‐organisms present. It is thought that they may heal better if these populations are reduced by antibacterial agents. However, the relationship between infection and micro‐organism populations in wounds and wound healing is not very clear. 
What we found 
In November 2015 we searched for as many studies as possible that both had a randomised controlled design and looked at the use of an antibiotic or antiseptic in participants with surgical wounds healing by secondary intention. We found 11 studies which included a total of 886 participants.These all looked at different comparisons. Several different types of wounds were included. Studies looked at wounds after diabetic foot amputation, pilonidal sinus surgery, treatment of various types of abscess, surgery for haemorrhoids, complications after caesarean section and healing of openings created by operations such as colostomy. 
Most studies compared a range of different types of antibacterial treatments to treatments without antibacterial activity, but four compared different antibacterial treatments. Although some of the trials suggested that one treatment may be better than another, this evidence was limited by the size of the studies and the ways they were carried out and reported. All of the studies had low numbers of participants and in some cases these numbers were very small. Many of the studies did not report important information about how they were carried out, so it was difficult to tell whether the results presented were likely to be true. More, better quality, research is needed to find out the effects of antimicrobial treatments on surgical wounds which are healing by secondary intention. 
Assessed as up to date November 2015.
