Interventions to manage health worker dual practice (holding more than one job)
Researchers in The Cochrane Collaboration set out to conduct a review of studies on the effect of interventions to stop or to regulate the practice among health workers of having more than one job (dual practice). However, after searching for all relevant studies, they were unable to find any studies that met their requirements for inclusion in the systematic review. 
Interventions to regulate dual practice 
Many health professionals have two or more jobs. This is referred to as dual practice. In many low‐ and middle‐income countries, low pay and difficult working conditions lead many health workers in the public health sector to add to their income by taking on private patients who pay for the services that they receive. In addition to this extra income, work in the private sector may also offer advantages such as higher status, more control over working hours and better professional opportunities. 
By allowing public sector health workers to supplement their income, it may be easier for the public sector to keep their skilled health workers. This type of dual practice may also lead health workers to spend less time in their public sector job, and may also encourage some health workers to be inefficient and corrupt. For instance, they may take time off without permission to go and work in their private positions; they may lower the quality of their services in the public sector in order to drive patients to their private practice; or they may take resources such as transport and drugs from their public sector workplace to use in their private sector jobs. 
In some countries, governments have imposed a ban on dual practice, or have attempted to regulate how many hours their health workers are allowed to conduct a private practice or how much they are allowed to earn from this practice by imposing mandatory licenses and private sector price ceilings. In other countries, health workers are given special incentives such as higher salaries and promotions if they agree to only work in the public sector, while other countries have allowed limited private practice (health workers seeing private patients) within public facilities. 
What happens when efforts are made to regulate dual practice? 
These efforts to regulate health worker dual practice have not been properly evaluated, therefore the review authors were not able to find any studies that met their stated requirements for types of study designs. The review shows that there is a huge gap in our knowledge about the effectiveness of policy interventions that attempt to regulate health worker dual practice. 
A summary of this review for policy‐makers is availablehere 
