How accurate is dermoscopy compared to visual inspection of the skin for diagnosing skin cancer (melanoma) in adults? 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out the accuracy of dermoscopy for the diagnosis of melanoma in comparison to visual inspection of the skin with the naked eye. The Review also investigated whether diagnostic accuracy using dermoscopy on a patient in person differed to the accuracy of diagnosis using dermoscopic images of the skin. Researchers in Cochrane included 104 studies to answer this question. 
Why is improving the diagnosis of melanoma important? 
Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms of skin cancer. Not recognising a melanoma when it is present (a false‐negative test result), delays surgery to remove it, risking cancer spreading to other organs in the body, and possibly death. Diagnosing a skin lesion (a mole or area of skin with an unusual appearance in comparison with the surrounding skin) as a melanoma when it is not (a false‐positive result), may result in unnecessary surgery, further investigations and patient anxiety. Visual inspection of suspicious skin lesions by a clinician using the naked eye is usually the first of a series of ‘tests’ to diagnose melanoma. Magnification techniques can be used by skin cancer specialists to allow a more detailed examination of suspicious skin lesions than can be achieved using the naked eye alone. 
What was studied in the review? 
A dermatoscope is a handheld device using visible light (such as from incandescent or LED bulbs), that can be used as part of the clinical examination of suspicious skin lesions. Dermoscopy has become an important tool to assist diagnosis by specialist clinicians and is also increasingly used in primary care settings. Knowing the diagnostic accuracy of dermoscopy added to visual inspection alone is important to understanding who it should be used by and in which healthcare settings. 
Researchers sought to find out the diagnostic accuracy of dermoscopy of suspicious skin lesions on a patient in person and using dermoscopic images compared to visual inspection alone. Researchers also sought to find out whether diagnostic accuracy was improved by use of a dermoscopy checklist or by an increase in level of clinical expertise. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review included 104 studies reporting data for people with lesions suspected of melanoma. The main results for the diagnosis of melanoma (including very early melanomas), are based on 86 of the studies, 26 of which provide information on the accuracy of dermoscopy added to in‐person visual inspection of a skin lesion and 60 provide information based on examination of dermoscopic images without the patient being present. 
The 26 in‐person studies provide the most relevant data for the use of dermoscopy in practice and their results are summarised here. A total of 23,169 suspicious skin lesions were included in the 26 studies and 13 of them also provided information on the accuracy of visual inspection of a lesion without the use of dermoscopy. The results suggest that dermoscopy is more accurate than visual inspection on its own, both for identifying melanoma correctly and excluding things that are not melanoma. 
The studies used different ways of deciding whether a skin lesion was a melanoma or not, which means that we cannot be exactly sure about how much better dermoscopy is compared to visual inspection alone. Instead we can give an illustrative example of the expected effect of the increase in accuracy using a group of 1000 lesions, of which 120 (12%), are melanoma. In order to see how much better dermoscopy is in identifying melanoma correctly when compared to just looking at the skin, we have to assume that both lead to the same number of lesions being falsely diagnosed as melanoma (we assumed that 176 of the 880 lesions without melanoma would have an incorrect diagnosis of melanoma). In this fixed situation, adding dermoscopy to visual inspection would correctly identify an extra 19 melanomas (110 compared with 91), that would have been missed by just looking at the skin alone. In other words, more melanomas would be correctly identified. 
In order to see how much better dermoscopy is in deciding if a skin lesion is not a melanoma when compared to just looking at the skin, we have to assume that both lead to the same number of melanomas being correctly diagnosed (in this case we assumed that 96 out of the 120 melanomas would be correctly diagnosed). In this situation, adding in dermoscopy to visual inspection would reduce the number of lesions being wrongly diagnosed as being melanoma by 176 (a reduction from 220 in the visual inspection group to 44 lesions in the dermoscopy group). In other words, more lesions that were not melanoma would be correctly identified and fewer people would end up being sent for surgery. 
Value of visual inspection checklists and effect of observer expertise 
There was no evidence that use of a checklist to help dermoscopy interpretation changed diagnostic accuracy. Accuracy was better (with fewer missed melanomas and fewer people having unnecessary surgery), when the diagnosis was made by people with more clinical expertise and training. 
How reliable are the results of the studies of this review? 
In the majority of included studies, the diagnosis of melanoma was made by lesion biopsy and the absence of melanoma was confirmed by biopsy or by follow‐up over time to make sure the skin lesion remained negative for melanoma, both of which are likely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had melanoma*. In a few studies, the absence of melanoma was made by expert diagnosis, which is unlikely to have been a reliable method for deciding whether patients really had melanoma. Poor reporting of study conduct made assessment of the reliability of studies difficult. Selective participant recruitment and lack of detail regarding the threshold for deciding on a positive test result were particularly problematic. 
Who do the results of this review apply to? 
Sixty‐six studies were undertaken in Europe (77%), with the remainder undertaken in North America (6 studies), Asia (4), Oceania (4), or were multicentre (7). Mean age ranged from 30 to 58 years (reported in 26 studies). The percentage of individuals with melanoma ranged between 1% and 41% for dermoscopy in‐person studies (median 12%), and between 3% and 61% in studies using dermoscopy images (median 24%). Almost all of the studies were carried out in referral settings rather than in primary care. In the majority of studies the lesions were unlikely to be representative of the range of those seen in practice, for example only including skin lesions of a certain size or with a specific appearance. In addition variation in the expertise of clinicians performing visual inspection and the definition used for a positive dermoscopy test result across studies makes it unclear as to how dermoscopy should be carried out and by people with different levels of clinical expertise in order to achieve the accuracy observed in studies. 
