Timing of tracheostomy for critically ill patients who are predicted to be on long‐term artificial respiration 
Review question: We reviewed available evidence on the effects of early tracheostomy (≤ 10 days after tracheal intubation) as compared with late tracheostomy (> 10 days after tracheal intubation) in terms of mortality in critically ill patients who predicted to be on long‐term artificial respiration. 
Background: Tracheostomy is a surgical procedure in which an external artificial opening is made in the trachea (windpipe). Long‐term mechanical ventilation (whereby a machine is used to mechanically assist breathing) is the most common situation for which tracheostomy is indicated for patients in intensive care units (ICUs). ‘Early’ and ‘late’ tracheostomies may be undertaken. 
Study characteristics: The evidence is current to August 2013. We included eight studies with a total of 1977 patients allocated to either early or late tracheostomy. Four studies received financial support from different institutions that did not participate in the study or in preparing the content of the final publications. We reran the search in October 2014. We will deal with any studies of interest when we update the review. 
Key results: Patients receiving early tracheostomy had lower risk of mortality at the longest follow‐up time available in seven studies that measured mortality (ranging from 28 days to two years of follow‐up), as compared with patients subjected to a late tracheostomy. However, the available evidence should be considered with caution because information is insufficient regarding any subgroup(s) or individual characteristic(s) potentially associated with the best indications for early or late tracheostomy. According to available results, approximately 11 patients would need to be treated with an early instead of a late tracheostomy to prevent one death. Results concerning the time spent on mechanical ventilation are not definitive, but they suggest benefits associated with early tracheostomy. Two studies show a significantly higher probability of discharge from the ICU at 28 days of follow‐up in the early tracheostomy group and no significant differences for pneumonia. Possible differences between early and late tracheostomy have yet to be adequately investigated in high‐quality studies because no information is available on the best indication for either early or late tracheostomy in patients with specific characteristics. 
