Sleep positioning systems for children with cerebral palsy
Background 
Hip migration (where the top of the thigh bone gradually moves away from the pelvis) affects a substantial number of children with cerebral palsy and is often associated with pain. For some children with cerebral palsy, particularly those who are unable to walk, equipment is sometimes recommended to help children sleep in positions that reduce or prevent hip migration. This equipment is known as 'sleep positioning systems' and can be prescribed along with equipment designed to support posture while sitting or standing, or both, during the day. Together, these are referred to as 24‐hour postural management programmes. 
Families and health professionals need information about whether sleep positioning systems work in this way, to help them make decisions about their use. 
Review question 
The aim of this review was to look for robust evidence from randomised controlled trials evaluating the effectiveness of sleep positioning systems for children with cerebral palsy. Randomised controlled trials involve two groups of people; one of the groups receives the treatment (experimental group), while the other group does not (control group), and the results are compared. To ensure the groups are similar, deciding which group a person joins is based on chance (random), so that any differences in the results between groups, is due only to the treatment (INVOLVE Jargon Buster). 
Study characteristics 
We carried out a comprehensive search for studies. The evidence is current to December 2014. 
Key results 
No randomised controlled trials were found that evaluated the effectiveness of sleep positioning systems to reduce or prevent hip migration. 
Two small randomised controlled trials compared children's quality of sleep when they were using and not using their sleep positioning system. One of these studies also examined pain when sleeping in and out of a sleep positioning system. These were cross‐over trials (see Cochrane Glossary). The children in these studies spent a few nights using their sleep positioning system and then a few nights not using it, or the other way round. The order in which they either used or did not use the equipment was randomised. 
Twenty‐one children with cerebral palsy, aged between 5 and 16 years, who were used to sleeping in sleep positioning systems took part in the studies. One of the studies took place in a sleep laboratory and the other study took place in the children's homes. Neither study reported any differences in quality of sleep or pain whether using or not using their sleep positioning system. These results need to be interpreted cautiously due to the small numbers of children involved and the fact that the children who participated were already accustomed users of the equipment. There were also various weaknesses in the way the research was designed and reported. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the current evidence regarding the effectiveness of sleep positioning systems for children with cerebral palsy is very low and more robust research is needed to help families and professionals make informed decisions about whether to use this intervention. 
