Short versus long feeding interval for bolus feedings in very preterm infants
Review question 
Are short feeding intervals (for example, two hours or shorter) better tolerated than long feeding intervals (three hours or longer) for regular milk feeds in very preterm infants? 
Background 
Feeding very preterm infants, less than 32 weeks' gestation at birth, is a major challenge. They have an immature gut which may lead to problems, varying from mild (feeding intolerance) to moderate (regurgitation of milk from the stomach) to severe (such as necrotising enterocolitis; NEC). NEC is an infectious complication leading to irreparable loss of parts of the bowel. The feeding interval, that is, the time interval between each feed, might matter but determining the appropriate feeding interval is a major challenge. Both short intervals, typically less than three hours, and longer intervals of three or more hours have their own risks. When the interval is short, a smaller volume of milk can be given more frequently. The infant might tolerate smaller volumes better, but their gut might not have sufficient time to rest between each feeding. 
Study characteristics 
We searched medical databases up 25 June 2020. We found four studies (involving 417 infants), all conducted in middle‐income countries. All four studies compared two‐hourly with three‐hourly feeding interval. All studies involved very low birth weight infants with a gestational age (time since the beginning of the woman's last menstrual period) range from 29 weeks to 35 weeks. 
Key results 
When we combined the results of the studies, they suggested little or no difference between the two‐ and three‐hourly feeding intervals. We are uncertain whether there is any difference between two‐ and three‐hourly feeding in terms of days to achieve full enteral (tube) feeding because the results were imprecise and there were biases in the studies. Days taken to regain the birth weight, after the usual initial drop in weight during the first days after birth, may be slightly longer in infants receiving two‐hourly feeds, but we are uncertain of the importance of this. We did not have enough data to determine whether there was any difference in any of the adverse outcomes that the studies reported. However, because only a small number of infants experienced NEC, we are uncertain whether there is any difference between the groups. There was no information on the effect of feeding interval on death, infant growth during hospital stay and neurodevelopmental outcome (brain development in childhood), and there was no information about other feeding intervals such as one‐hourly or four‐hourly feeds. There is one study awaiting classification as we need more information. 
Quality of evidence 
The quality of the evidence in this review was low. Therefore, there may be no clinically important differences between two‐ and three‐hourly feeding intervals. 
