What are the benefits and risks of steroid injections for treating diabetic macular edema, a complication of diabetes? 
Why this question is importantDiabetes causes high levels of sugar in the blood. This can damage the small blood vessels at the back of the eye (the retina). If they leak, the central part of the retina (the macula) swells. This is called diabetic macular edema, and can cause blurred vision. If it is not treated, it can cause permanent vision loss. 
One way to treat this is to inject steroids (anti‐inflammatory medicines) into the eye. We reviewed the research evidence to compare the benefits and risks of this treatment against no treatment or other treatments. 
How we identified and assessed the evidenceWe searched for all relevant studies in the medical literature, compared their results, and summarized the evidence. We assessed how certain the evidence was for each finding, based on factors such as how well studies were conducted, study sizes, or consistency of findings across studies. We categorized the evidence as being of very low‐, low‐, moderate‐, or high‐certainty. 
What we foundWe identified 10 studies on 4348 people with diabetic macular edema. Participants were followed for nine to 36 months. The studies investigated three different injected steroids: dexamethasone, fluocinolone, and triamcinolone. Six studies were funded by pharmaceutical manufacturers. 
Benefits (measured 12 or 24 months after treatment) 
Compared to a sham treatment:
• Dexamethasone and fluocinolone probably improve visual sharpness and reduce thickness of the retina more; triamcinolone may also do this. 
• It is probable that more people’s vision improves by three lines or more on a vision chart with fluocinolone. Evidence is insufficient to tell whether dexamethasone or triamcinolone has the same effect. 
Compared to antiangiogenics (medicines that prevent new blood vessels forming behind the retina): 
• Dexamethasone probably improves visual sharpness similarly or slightly less but may reduce thickness of the retina slightly more. Triamcinolone may improve visual sharpness less too; we do not know how it affects thickness of the retina because the evidence is of very low‐certainty. 
