The impact of cumulative medications with anticholinergic effects on future adverse clinical outcomes in people with dementia 
Key messages 
Anticholinergic medicines may increase the risk of death in older adults who have dementia.  However, the evidence is low certainty, and we cannot say for certain if the anticholinergic medicines cause death, or if they are simply more likely to be used by people who are already at an increased risk of dying due to ongoing health problems.  
We cannot draw firm conclusions for the risk that anticholinergic medicines pose to the development of other undesirable clinical outcomes, such as further deterioration of memory and thinking, or behavioural and psychological issues.  More research is needed to establish whether anticholinergic medicines cause unintended problems for older adults who have dementia. 
What are anticholinergic medicines? 
Medicines can be classified by their ability to block the action of a chemical signalling system in the body, called the cholinergic system. Medicines that do this are said to have anticholinergic effects, and therefore, are referred to as anticholinergic medicines. 
What did we want to find out?  
Anticholinergic medicines are commonly used to treat a number of medical conditions that people with dementia frequently experience. Typical examples are medicines used to treat urinary tract infections or episodes of agitation. However, because the cholinergic system in the brain plays an important role in learning, memory, and emotional regulation, there are theoretical reasons to believe that the use of anticholinergic medicines may unintentionally exacerbate psychological problems in this population. In this review, we investigated the link between anticholinergic medicines and future occurrence of undesirable clinical outcomes in people with dementia.  
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that looked at the link between anticholinergic medicines and a range of clinical outcomes in people with dementia. We compared and summarised the results of identified studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors, such as study methods and sizes.  
What did we find? 
We found a total of 18 studies, involving 102,684 adults aged 50 years or more, who had issues with memory and thinking. We found that the evidence was highly inconsistent regarding the link between anticholinergic medicines and increased issues with memory and thinking in people with dementia. There were no studies that investigated the link between anticholinergic medicines and frequency of behavioural disturbances. Therefore, we could not draw any conclusions about whether anticholinergic medicines cause issues with memory and thinking, or behavioural disturbances in this population. However, we did find there was a more consistent link between anticholinergic medicines and the risk of death. Those who were taking anticholinergic medicines had a 15% higher risk of dying than those who were not taking anticholinergic medicines.   
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
The available evidence is very low certainty because of the inconsistency of study results, and the lack of control for health conditions that could be linked with both the clinical outcomes and the prescribing of anticholinergic medicines themselves. It is possible that anticholinergic medicines may not actually cause death, but are simply more likely to be given to people who are already at an increased risk of dying due to ongoing health problems.   
