Therapy for inclusion body myositis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence from clinical trials about the effects of drug treatments for inclusion body myositis (IBM). We did not include trials of exercise or management of swallowing difficulties, as these are subjects of other Cochrane reviews. 
Background 
IBM is a disease that mainly affects older people. The main symptoms are increasing muscle wasting and weakness of the arms and legs. Some people experience swallowing difficulties. As yet no therapy has been shown to alter the course of the disease. Treatments that have been tested include agents that suppress or alter the immune response, drugs that promote muscle growth, and antioxidants. 
Study characteristics 
This review included 10 trials (249 participants). One of these trials (24 participants) is completed but has not yet been published. Seven trials compared treatments with placebo (inactive treatment): three of intravenous immunoglobulin (IVIg), two of interferon beta‐1a (IFN beta‐1a), and one each of oxandrolone, methotrexate (MTX), and arimoclomol (not yet published). A further two trials compared MTX with combined immunosuppressive therapy (MTX with anti‐T lymphocyte immunoglobulin (ATG) (an agent that destroys white blood cells) and MTX with azathioprine). In these two trials, participants and investigators knew which treatment participants were receiving, which could have biased the results. 
Results and quality of the evidence 
For our primary outcome, which was muscle strength, we were only able to combine the results for the two trials of IFN beta‐1a therapy versus placebo. This treatment did not appear to offer a benefit in terms of muscle strength. MTX also did not stop or retard loss of muscle strength when compared to placebo. We considered the evidence from these trials to be of moderate quality because the trials were too small to rule out a possible benefit for these drugs. For the other trials, the evidence was of very low quality. Three trials compared IVIg (combined in one trial with prednisone) to a placebo, but we were unable to perform meta‐analysis because the available data were not suitable. One trial of ATG combined with MTX versus MTX alone provided very low‐quality evidence of an effect on muscle strength in favour of MTX plus ATG at 12 months. The other comparisons, of MTX versus placebo, oxandrolone versus placebo, azathioprine combined with MTX versus MTX, and arimoclomol versus placebo were reported in single trials that did not provide enough data for analysis of the effect on muscle strength. 
