Atypical antipsychotic drugs for disruptive behaviour disorders in children and youths
Review question 
To review the effect and safety of atypical antipsychotics (which are newer‐generation major tranquillisers), compared to placebo (dummy pill), for treating disruptive behaviour disorders (e.g. defiance, disobedience, hostility) in children and youths. 
Background 
Children and youths with disruptive behaviour disorders often present with aggression and severe behaviour problems. These can result in families seeking health services, where atypical antipsychotics may be used to reduce these symptoms. There is increasing usage of atypical antipsychotics in the treatment of disruptive behaviour disorders. 
Study characteristics 
We reviewed the evidence for atypical antipsychotics, compared to placebo, for treating disruptive behaviour disorders in children and youths. The evidence is current to 19 January 2017. We found 10 studies. Of these studies, eight investigated the effect of risperidone, one investigated quetiapine and one investigated ziprasidone. Five studies were pilot studies (a small, preliminary study to assess the feasibility, including costs, of conducting a larger study). Five studies had 38 or fewer participants; one study had 50 participants, two studies had over 100 participants each, one had 168 participants and one had over 300 participants. Nine studies had a duration of four, six or 10 weeks. The tenth study was a six‐month maintenance trial. Nine out of 10 studies had some degree of pharmaceutical support/funding. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
Our analysis suggested that risperidone led to a reduction of aggression (low‐quality evidence) and conduct problems (moderate‐quality evidence), to some extent, after six weeks of treatment, and that risperidone appeared relatively safe in the short‐term. However, it was associated with significant weight gain (low‐ to moderate‐quality evidence). There are other side effects that have not been well studied and long‐term effects are not entirely clear. Clinicians prescribing such medication and families need to carefully consider the benefits and risks of medications. There were no studies with children under five years of age. There is a lack of studies of medications other than risperidone. 
We recommend that more research be conducted to find out the long‐term effects and safety of these medications. More research is also needed for other medications besides risperidone. Ideally, medication should be used with or preceded by effective psychosocial treatments, like parent training, consistent with current clinical guidelines. It is important that medications are used at adequate doses and for an adequate duration. Careful thought needs to be given to usage of medications sequentially or in combination in order to optimise the therapeutic effect while minimising polypharmacy. 
The findings need to be considered with caution because of the limitations of the evidence. The studies used different outcome measures, which limited our ability to combine the findings. Six out of 10 studies had small numbers of participants, which affected the power of the studies (the ability of the study to distinguish an effect of a certain size from chance). The quality of the evidence for the main outcomes of this review — aggression, conduct problems and weight gain — ranged from low to moderate quality using the GRADE considerations. 
