Treatment of severe or progressive Kaposi's sarcoma in HIV‐infected adults
Kaposi’s sarcoma was the first tumor to be described in association with HIV infection and is an AIDS‐defining condition. It is also known as Kaposi's sarcoma‐associated herpes virus (KSHV) as Herpes virus 8 (HHV8) is recognized as an essential and necessary factor in the pathogenesis of KS. Nonetheless, not all HHV‐8‐infected individuals will develop the disease. The abnormal cells of KS form purple, red, or brown patches, plaques or tumors on the skin. There is no universally accepted system for staging Kaposi's sarcoma. The most commonly used staging system for AIDS‐related KS in adults is the AIDS Clinical Trial Group (ACTG) staging. 
This review evaluated the effects of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) and chemotherapy, or different chemotherapy regimens for severe or progressive Kaposi's sarcoma in HIV infected adults. 
We found six randomised controlled trials and three observational studies that assessed the effects of HAART plus chemotherapy compared with HAART alone; HAART plus chemotherapy compared with HAART plus another chemotherapy regimen; and chemotherapy compared with chemotherapy in the time before HAART was available. Of the nine included studies, seven included patients with a mix of mild to moderate (T0) Kaposi's sarcoma and severe (T1) Kaposi's sarcoma. There was no universal definition for what severity of disease was considered chemotherapy‐requiring. For this review, we only extracted data for 792 HIV infected adults with severe Kaposi's sarcoma disease. 
The findings from this review suggest that HAART plus chemotherapy may be beneficial in reducing disease progression compared to HAART alone in patients with severe or progressive Kaposi's sarcoma. For patients on HAART, in choosing among different chemotherapy regimens, there was no observed difference between liposomal doxorubcin, liposomal daunorubicin, and paclitaxel. The overall quality of evidence in this review can be described as moderate. 
