Dental hygiene in addition to drug treatment for Helicobacter pylori eradication
Background 
Helicobacter pylori is a bacteria that is considered to be the main cause of long‐term inflammation and ulcers of the stomach, and research has also linked it to diseases such as cancer of the stomach and lymph nodes. Globally, the bacteria affects about half the world's population. To eliminate H. pylori infection and prevent its recurrence, physicians can use various combinations of medications, including antibiotics and proton pump inhibitors (which reduce stomach acid production). This is known as eradication therapy. However, H. pylori may also reside inside the mouth, and researchers do not know whether or not its presence there changes the effectiveness of eradication therapy aimed at the stomach. Given this open debate, it is necessary to clarify whether periodontal therapy is an effective added treatment forH. pylori infection of the stomach and whether its use combined with eradication therapy can prevent recurrence better than eradication therapy alone. Periodontal therapy consists of procedures carried out to support the health of the structures in the mouth that support teeth, such as the jaw bone and gums. It includes oral hygiene instruction, toothbrushing, the use of mouthwash, and the professional removal of dental plaque and tartar from the teeth and gum line. This summary of a Cochrane review represents what we know about the benefits and harms of periodontal therapy as an accompanying treatment for H. pylori infection of the stomach in adults. 
Study characteristics 
After searching for all relevant studies to August 2015, we found seven small randomized controlled trials (considered the highest quality study design) involving 691 participants aged 17 to 78 years. 
Key results 
The results indicated that periodontal therapy as an added treatment had some benefits on eradication of gastricH. pylori for short‐term and long‐term follow‐up. The eradication (the reduction of the prevalence of H. pylori in stomach to normal range) and non‐recurrence (the proportion of participants that remained free of gastric H. pylori after successful eradication therapy) rates increased in people who received periodontal therapy plus eradication treatment, when compared with those who received eradication treatment alone. 
Quality of the evidence 
Because there were not very many participants or trials included in our analyses, we cannot draw a firm conclusion about the use of periodontal therapy for all patients with gastric H. pylori infection in clinical practice. 
Based on the results in this review, large‐scale randomized controlled trials comparing periodontal therapy plus eradication treatment with eradication treatment alone would be useful to generate stronger evidence on the use of periodontal therapy as an additional treatment for patients with gastric diseases caused by H. pylori. 
