Endoscopic third ventriculostomy for idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus
Background 
Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) is the fluid which circulates around the brain and spinal cord and through spaces called ventricles within the brain. It protects the brain, supplies nutrients and removes waste products. Normally, its production and reabsorption are tightly controlled. In idiopathic normal pressure hydrocephalus (iNPH), there is an increase in the volume of CSF for unknown reasons. This causes the ventricles to enlarge and eventually leads to damage to surrounding brain tissue. It usually occurs in older people. Its characteristic symptoms are deterioration in balance and gait, urinary incontinence and cognitive decline. It is one of the less common causes of dementia. 
It is thought that the symptoms of some patients with iNPH can be improved by an operation to drain away the excess CSF. This has usually been done by inserting a tube (a shunt) to drain fluid into the chest or abdomen (ventriculoatrial or ventriculoperitoneal shunts). However, there is uncertainty about the effectiveness of this approach and a significant number of patients develop complications or need further surgery. Endoscopic third ventriculostomy (ETV) is a newer and less invasive surgical approach which involves making a small hole in the floor of one of the ventricles. 
Review question 
We undertook this review to try to determine how safe and effective ETV is for treating iNPH. We did this by looking for any randomised, controlled trials (RCTs) which compared ETV to no surgery or to insertion of a shunt. 
Results 
We searched for trials which had been reported by August 2014. We were able to include only one RCT with 42 participants in the review. It compared ETV to insertion of a ventriculoperitoneal shunt, but unfortunately a type of shunt which is not often used in standard practice. We compared the numbers of patients whose symptoms improved with each treatment, but the result was too imprecise to allow us to draw a conclusion. In the shunting group, 19% of the patients had a surgical complication, while there were no complications in the ETV group. Due to the small number of participants, we could not be sure whether this was likely to reflect a true difference in complication rates. 
Quality of the evidence 
We considered the quality of the evidence to be very low because there was a high risk of bias in the trial results, because the results were so imprecise, and because several outcomes measured in the trial were not fully reported. 
Conclusions 
Doctors and patients should be aware of the limitations of the evidence on the effectiveness and safety of this operation for iNPH. There should be more and larger trials to compare the different treatment options. 
