Steroids plus antibiotics versus antibiotics alone for the treatment of acute endophthalmitis after eye surgery or injections into the eye 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether using steroids in addition to antibiotics is more effective than using antibiotics alone for acute endophthalmitis (infection inside the eyeball that can cause vision loss) after eye surgery or injections into the eye. We looked for all studies that answered this question and found four studies. 
Key messages 
It is uncertain whether using steroids in addition to antibiotics is helpful or harmful compared with using antibiotics alone to treat acute endophthalmitis after eye surgery or injections into the eye. 
What was studied in the review? 
Endophthalmitis is rare, but it is important for people undergoing surgery or injections to the eye to be aware of the risk and for their doctors to know how best to treat it because it can result in vision loss. It is most commonly caused by entry of bacteria into the eye during, or a few days after, surgery or injection. As soon as endophthalmitis is suspected, a sample of the fluid inside the eye is usually obtained (and the fluid drained in severe cases), and antibiotics that cover most types of bacteria are injected into the eye. Although the use of antibiotics is widely accepted, the use of additional steroids to treat endophthalmitis is the subject of debate. Steroids may help to decrease the inflammation inside the eye in people with endophthalmitis. We looked at whether giving steroids in addition to antibiotics affects patient outcomes. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found four studies from South Africa, India, and the Netherlands. Almost all study participants had endophthalmitis after cataract surgery. All four studies compared injecting dexamethasone (a steroid) plus two antibiotics into the eye versus injecting only antibiotics into the eye. Low certainty evidence showed that more participants in the group receiving dexamethasone had a good visual outcome 3 months after treatment than in the antibiotics‐only group, but the evidence was uncertain at 12 months. The effects of using steroids on resolution of endophthalmitis and harms were also uncertain. Given the uncertainty of evidence for most outcomes, it is not clear whether doctors should use steroids with antibiotics to treat endophthalmitis after a procedure in the eye. 
