Anticholinergic medication for people who have tardive dyskinesia after taking antipsychotic medication 
Review question. 
Are anticholinergic drugs or withdrawal of anticholinergic drugs effective in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia in people with schizophrenia or other similar mental health problems. 
Background. 
People with schizophrenia often hear voices and see things (hallucinations) and have beliefs which are at odds with those held by people without schizophrenia (delusions). The main treatment of these symptoms are antipsychotic drugs. However, these drugs can have debilitating side‐effects. Tardive dyskinesia is an involuntary movement that causes the face, mouth, tongue and jaw to convulse, spasm and grimace. It is caused by long‐term use, or high doses, of antipsychotic drugs, is difficult to treat and can be incurable. Many people being treated with antipsychotic medication also receive anticholinergic drugs to try to reduce some of these movement side‐effects. There is, however, evidence from animal experiments that anticholinergic drugs could cause tardive dyskinesia. 
Study characteristics. 
The review includes two small randomised studies with a total of 30 people with schizophrenia who had also developed antipsychotic‐induced tardive dyskinesia. Participants in one study received either the anticholinergic drug procyclidine or isocarboxacid, an antidepressant drug. One participant group in the other study was withdrawn from the anticholinergic drug biperiden whereas the other group of participants continued taking biperiden. 
Key results. 
There were sparse findings from two small and poorly reported trials. It is uncertain whether giving anticholinergic drugs is helpful in the treatment of tardive dyskinesia for people who are taking antipsychotic medication. It is also uncertain whether the withdrawal of anticholinergic medication improves the symptoms of tardive dyskinesia. 
Quality of the evidence. 
Available evidence is very low or low quality, limited, and small scale. It is not possible to recommend these drugs or the withdrawal of these drugs as a treatment for tardive dyskinesia. To fully investigate whether the withdrawal of anticholinergic drugs has any positive effects for people with tardive dyskinesia, we need more high quality research data. 
This plain language summary was adapted by the review authors from a summary originally written by Ben Gray, Senior Peer Researcher, McPin Foundation (mcpin.org). 
