Treatment for prominent lower front teeth in children
Review question 
There are many different ways of treating patients with prominent (or sticking out) lower front teeth. Orthodontic treatment for children and adolescents is one method used. This review, carried out by authors of the Cochrane Oral Health Group, sought to establish which is the most effective type of orthodontic treatment when carried out in childhood; whether these treatments reduce the need for treatment as an adult; and at what age these treatments are best carried out to ensure that changes made to the shape of the jaw and the positioning of the teeth last until the end of growth and can be maintained into adulthood. 
In severe cases, people may need surgery as adults to correct this condition. If a successful approach to treatment in childhood were to be found, with long‐lasting effects, this kind of surgery may not be necessary. Additionally, the risk of damage to teeth and joints, together with the negative psychological effects associated with the condition, could be lessened or avoided. 
Background 
Prominent lower front teeth can be an important problem for some people and are usually due to the way the jaws meet together. This condition may be the source of teasing, problems eating, and occasionally problems with speech. The condition may also give rise to problems with the jaw joints in later life. Orthodontic treatment relies on the use of appliances of various kinds either inside or outside of the mouth that are fixed in some way to the teeth, and sometimes placed on parts of the head, to influence the growth of the jaws and position of teeth. 
This review looked at the use of four different types of orthodontic treatment for correcting prominent lower front teeth in children. 
‐Facemask: an appliance rests on the forehead and chin, connected to the upper teeth with elastic bands that are placed by the wearer. Through this arrangement a balanced force is applied, which it is hoped will pull the upper teeth and jaw forwards and downward to correct the prominent lower teeth. 
‐Chin cup: an appliance rests on the chin with a strap around the back of the head. Forward growth of the lower jaw is resisted, correcting the prominence of the lower front teeth. Nothing is placed in the mouth. 
‐Mandibular headgear: a strap rests on the back of the head and is connected to the lower teeth. This resists forward growth of the lower teeth and jaw in order to correct the prominent lower front teeth. 
‐Tandem traction bow appliance: attachments are fixed to the top and bottom teeth. In the top attachment there is a hook on each side. A metal bar is placed in the lower attachment, which sits in front of the lower teeth. An elastic band can then be placed on each side to pull the top jaw forward and bottom jaw backwards, to correct the prominent lower teeth. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence on which this review is based was found to be up to date as of 7 January 2013. 
A total of seven suitable studies were identified and included in this review; they included 339 children aged from five to 11 years. There were roughly equal numbers of girls and boys in each study and participants were from different ethnic groups depending on where the study was carried out. Studies included were conducted in Turkey, Egypt, China, the United States of America and the United Kingdom. 
Key results 
This review found some evidence that the use of a facemask appliance can help to correct prominent lower front teeth on a short‐term basis. There was no evidence available to show whether or not these short‐term changes will still be maintained until the child is fully grown. There was not enough evidence to support any other types of treatment for prominent lower front teeth. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence for the use of a facemask was moderate to low, whilst the quality of the rest of the evidence was very low. 
