Communicating to young people and adults through their mobile devices to improve sexual and reproductive health 
Aim of this review 
We assessed the effect of sending targeted messages by mobile devices to young people and adults about their sexual and reproductive health (SRH). Sexually transmitted infections (STIs) and unintended pregnancies are important causes of illness and early death worldwide. 
Key messages 
There are gaps in the evidence regarding the effects of targeted messages by mobile devices to young people and adults about their SRH. These types of messages may have benefits in a few areas. However, the existing evidence is often of low or very low certainty. 
What was studied in the review? 
Targeted client communication (TCC) is an intervention in which the health system sends information to particular people, based on their health status or other factors specific to that population group. Common types of TCC are text messages that remind people to go to appointments or that offer healthcare information and support. Our review assessed whether TCC can change people’s behaviour, use of health services, and health and well‐being. We focused on communication about SRH to young people (aged 10 to 24 years), and to adults. 
What happens when young people receive targeted messages by mobile device?  
Compared to people who get no messages 
Young people may have better SRH knowledge and may use contraceptives slightly more. We don't know if the messages affect young people's condom use; use of SRH services; or the number testing positive for STIs, needing abortions, or adhering to HIV medication, because the evidence is missing or of very low certainty. 
Compared to people who get messages sent in other ways 
We do not know what the effect of the messages is because the evidence is missing.
Compared to people who get untargeted messages 
We don't know whether the messages improve SRH knowledge or increase condom or contraceptive use because the certainty of the evidence is very low. The messages may reduce the number of people who get STIs (but it is possible they increase, or make little or no difference to, STIs). The messages may increase the number of young people who attend services for testing for STIs/HIV. We don't know whether the messages affect the number of young people having abortions or help them to take their HIV medication because the evidence is missing. 
We are uncertain if the messages lead to more unintended consequences among young people than no messages, or other types of communication. 
