Haloperidol as a means of calming people who are aggressive or agitated due to psychosis
Aim of review 
This review looks at whether haloperidol is effective for treating people who are agitated and aggressive as a result of having psychosis. 
Background 
People with psychosis may experience hearing voices (hallucinations) or abnormal thoughts (delusions), which can make the person frightened, distressed and agitated (restless, excitable or irritable), leading sometimes to aggressive behaviour. This poses a significant challenge for mental health professionals, who have to quickly choose the best available treatment to prevent the risk of harm to both patient and/or others. 
Haloperidol is a medication used for treating people with psychosis that can be taken by mouth or injected. As well as being an antipsychotic (preventing psychosis), it also calms people down or helps them to sleep. 
Searches 
In 2011 and 2016, the information specialist of the Cochrane Schizophrenia Group searched their specialised register for randomised trials that looked at the effects of giving haloperidol compared with either placebo or other treatments to people who are aggressive or agitated because they were experiencing psychosis. 
Results 
Forty‐one studies are now included in the review but information in these is of low‐quality. Main results show that when compared with placebo or no treatment, more people having haloperidol were asleep after two hours. However, evidence is not strong. Results are made more complex by large variety of available treatments (24 comparisons). 
Conclusions 
The review authors conclude there is weak evidence that haloperidol calms people down and helps manage difficult situations. However, this is not based on good‐quality trails and therefore health professionals and people with mental health problems are left without clear evidence‐based guidance. In some situations, haloperidol may be the only choice, but this is far from ideal because although haloperidol is effective at calming people down it has side effects (e.g. restlessness, shaking of the head, hands and body, heart problems). These side effects can be just as distressing as psychosis and may act as a barrier that stops people coming back for future treatment. More research is needed to help people consider and understand which medication is better at calming people down; has fewer side effects; works quickly and rapidly; and can be used at lower dosages (or less frequent injections). 
This plain language summary is based on a summary written by a consumer Ben Gray from Rethink. 
