Adjustment disorders, characterised by distress symptoms and emotional disturbance as a reaction to a significant life change or stressful life event, are a frequent cause of sick leave among workers. Apart from the negative consequences for the worker, sick leave poses a heavy burden on society due to the loss of productivity of the worker and work disability claims. Different treatments have been developed to help such workers return to work. Our study assessed how effective these treatments are at enabling the sick‐listed worker to return to partial or full‐time work. We searched databases containing articles from different scientific journals and looked for studies that tested whether a certain type of treatment helped the worker to return to work when on sick leave because of an adjustment disorder. We found nine relevant studies. In total, 10 psychological treatments were evaluated and one combined treatment consisting of a psychological treatment and relaxation techniques. We found no studies on pharmacological interventions, exercise programmes or employee assistance programmes. The nine studies included in this review reported in total on 1546 participants. Of the 10 psychological treatments, five consisted of cognitive behavioural therapy and five of problem solving therapy, which are commonly used types of treatment for patients with mental health problems. Our results showed that workers on sick leave because of an adjustment disorder can be helped with making their first step back to work (i.e. partial return to work) by treating them with problem solving therapy. On average, workers who are offered problem solving therapy start 17 days earlier with partial return to work compared to workers who receive no treatment or the usual treatment from their occupational physician or general practitioner. However, we also found that cognitive behavioural therapy or problem solving therapy does not help the worker return to work with full‐time hours any quicker than workers who receive no treatment or the usual treatment from their occupational physicians or general practitioners. These results are based on moderate‐quality evidence, which implies that further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the results and may change the results. 