Partial breast irradiation for early breast cancer
What is the issue? 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer that women get.
Women with early breast cancer who choose to keep their breast need to have radiotherapy (RT) as well as surgery to remove the cancer to make sure it does not regrow in the breast. RT is treatment with high energy x‐rays. Having RT for breast cancer usually means 15 to 30 visits to the RT department, five times per week. 
If breast cancer does regrow in the same breast (called local recurrence), it tends to come back in the area it was removed from. Women can also grow a new cancer (new 'elsewhere primary') in another part of the same breast. We are not sure if the RT given to stop cancer regrowth where the first cancer was, stops the growth of 'elsewhere primaries.' 
Why does it matter? 
We always want to treat the smallest area we can with RT because this means fewer side effects. Treating only part of the breast could mean that RT might be able to be used again in another part of the same breast if needed. New ways of giving RT mean that treating part of the breast can be done with fewer treatments. This is likely to be easier for women and cost less money. 
What did we compare? 
We asked if giving RT to part of the breast (called partial breast irradiation (PBI)) is as good as giving RT to the whole breast. PBI can be given with a shortened treatment duration (called accelerated partial breast irradiation (APBI)). 
For this treatment to be acceptable, it would need to control the cancer as well as giving RT to the whole breast does. It would also be important that the PBI gives about the same side effects and breast appearance as treating the whole breast. 
What did we find? 
We found nine studies, which involved 15,187 women. Our evidence is current to 27 August 2020. Local recurrence is probably slightly more common with APBI/PBI (moderate‐quality evidence) and the breast appearance (scored by doctors and nurses) was probably worse with APBI/PBI (moderate‐quality evidence). There is probably little difference in survival (high‐quality evidence). Late radiation fibrosis (change in breast appearance and feel) is probably increased with APBI/PBI. There are probably few differences in breast cancer‐related deaths and spread of breast cancer around the body with the use of APBI/PBI. The use of APBI/PBI makes little difference to how many women need mastectomy (removal of the whole breast) because of unacceptable late side effects or local recurrence. 
What do our findings mean? 
This means that at the moment, PBI does not give the same cancer control in the breast as treating the whole breast, but the difference is small. It may cause worse side effects. There are seven big ongoing studies that will be important to answer this question. We hope to have a clearer answer in the next update of this review. 
