Should root canal treatment be performed in one dental visit or over several visits?
Review question 
Is there any difference in effectiveness when undertaking root canal treatment in one visit compared to over several visits, and what are the effects on pain and complications, regardless of whether medication is used? 
Background 
This is an update of a review first published in 2007.
Root canal treatment, or endodontic treatment, is a common procedure in dentistry. The main reasons that root canal treatment are needed are persistent inflammation of the dental pulp (pulpitis) and death of the dental pulp (dead or non‐vital tooth) caused by tooth decay, cracks or chips, or other accidental damage to teeth. 
Root canal treatment is considered successful when there are no symptoms, for example pain, and when x‐rays show no signs of damage to bone and other supporting tissues of the tooth. The success of root canal treatment depends on the preoperative condition of the tooth, as well as the endodontic procedures used. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature up to 14 June 2016. We found 25 relevant studies with a total of 3780 participants. The studies compared root canal treatment performed at a single appointment with root canal treatment performed over two or more appointments on vital permanent teeth, non‐vital permanent teeth, or both. 
Key results 
No apparent difference exists between single‐ and multiple‐visit root canal treatment on x‐ray examination, an indicator which does not affect the patient directly, but is known to be important as a measure of effective treatment. Only one study measured the likelihood of tooth extraction due to endodontic problems and did not find evidence of a difference between single‐ and multiple‐visit treatment. Most short‐ and long‐term complications (pain, swelling, fistula, and tooth extraction) were similar in terms of frequency, although people undergoing a single visit were more likely to experience pain in the first week and to take painkillers. 
