Prostatic arterial embolization for treatment of lower urinary tract symptoms in men with benign prostatic hyperplasia 
Review question 
What are the effects of a procedure that reduces blood flow to the prostate (called prostatic arterial embolization) in men with symptoms caused by an enlarged prostate? 
Background 
An enlarged prostate may cause difficulty with urination such as a weak stream or the need to urinate often during the day or at night. This can be treated by medications or by different types of surgery. One main type of surgery is called transurethral resection of the prostate. This involves going inside the urethra through the penis and removing prostate tissue. Prostatic arterial embolization is another form of treatment that works by stopping blood flow to parts of the prostate. We did this study to compare how prostatic arterial embolization compares to transurethral resection of the prostate and other procedures used in men with an enlarged prostate. 
Study characteristics 
We found eight studies that compared prostatic arterial embolization to transurethral resection of the prostate. In six of eight studies, so‐called randomized trials, chance decided which group people were in. In the other two studies, the men themselves and their doctors decided. We also included one study that compared prostatic arterial embolization to a sham procedure (men were made to believe that they had received treatment, but in reality, they did not). We found no evidence comparing prostatic arterial embolization to treatments other than transurethral resection of the prostate.  
Key results 
Prostatic arterial embolization compared to transurethral resection of the prostate  
Based on up to 24 months' follow‐up, prostatic arterial embolization and transurethral resection of the prostate may work similarly well in helping to relieve symptoms. Men's quality of life may be also improved similarly. We are very uncertain about differences in major unwanted effects. Prostatic arterial embolization likely increases the need for being treated again for the same problem. Prostatic arterial embolization may work similarly with regard to erection problems, but may reduce problems with ejaculation. 
