Are digital contact tracing technologies effective during infectious disease outbreaks?
Why is this question important? 
The global COVID‐19 pandemic highlights the importance of accurate and timely contact tracing. Contact tracing tells people that they may have been near someone with ‐ or showing symptoms of ‐ an infectious disease, allowing them to self‐isolate and helping to stop the spread of infection. Traditionally, contact tracing begins with notification that someone has an infectious disease. They are asked to recall their contacts, going back two to three days before symptom onset. This is time‐consuming and may not always give a complete picture, so digital aids could help contact tracers. 
Digital contact tracing uses technology to track and trace contacts. Individuals download an app onto their smartphones and record location and symptom information, or their devices might use location‐finding technology, like Bluetooth or GPS (global positioning system). If the user is infected, the technology identifies close contacts and/or secondary infections (people to whom they passed the disease), and informs people whom they have been near. The technology identifies where the infection was passed on and its duration (the context). 
However, problems may occur where access to technology is limited, in low‐income settings or for elderly people, for example. Also, some people see it as an invasion of privacy and are suspicious of how their data will be used. 
We wanted to know whether digital contact tracing, compared to manual contact tracing, is effective in reducing the spread of infection, as measured by secondary infections, identifying close contacts, tracing a complete set of contacts, and identifying the context of infection. 
What did we do? 
We searched medical databases for studies that assessed digital contact tracing. We preferred studies set during infectious disease outbreaks, which assessed real people in real time, but we included studies in any setting and of any design. 
