Topical medicine instillation techniques for glaucoma
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if the way that people with glaucoma put eye drops in makes a difference in how well the eye drops work. Cochrane researchers collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found two studies. 
Key messages  It is unclear if the way that people with glaucoma put their eye drops in makes a difference in how well the drops work. 
What did this review study?  Glaucoma is a leading cause of blindness worldwide. In eyes with glaucoma, the ability to see may be lost because of damage to the optic nerve. The optic nerve is the part of the eye that sends visual information from the eye to the brain. Sometimes such damage occurs when there is too much pressure in the eye (called intraocular pressure or IOP). Sometimes eyes may have too much pressure without damage to the optic nerve (called ocular hypertension). The main goal of glaucoma and ocular hypertension treatment is to lower IOP. Topical medicines, such as eye drops, are most often used as the first treatment. Encouraging specific ways of applying the drops, such as closing your eyes or nasolacrimal occlusion (closing the eye and pressing a finger on the inside corner, by the nose) aims to increase how much medicine is absorbed into the eye and reduce how much medicine is absorbed into the body. 
What are the main results of the review?  We found two studies that compared different ways of putting in eye drops. Both studies used prostaglandin alone for glaucoma or ocular hypertension. One study, in the US, evaluated the effect of closing the eyes for one and three minutes after putting in eye drops on lowering IOP. The second study, in Italy, looked at whether wiping off the excess fluid, after putting in the eye drops, led to fewer changes in the skin surrounding the eye. 
After one to two weeks in the US study, closing the eyelid for one to three minutes after putting in the eye drops found no difference on IOP compared with not closing the eyelid for a specified amount of time. After four months in the Italian study, eyelashes were shorter when participants had wiped their eyes to remove excess fluid when compared with participants who did not wipe their eyes. 
