High‐dose chemotherapy followed by autologous stem cell transplantation for patients with relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma 
Hodgkin lymphoma (HL) is a malignancy of single lymph nodes, the lymphatic system, and might affect other additional organs. It is a relatively rare disease, accounting for two or three people per 100,000 every year in Western countries, but it is one of the most common cancers in young adults between 20 and 30 years of age. The second peak of the disease is after the age of 60 years. Treatment options for HL have improved since the 1980s, so that even patients in advanced stages may be cured with adequate therapy. Treatment approaches include chemotherapy, radiotherapy or chemotherapy combined with radiotherapy (combined‐modality treatment), of which the combined‐modality treatment is standard for most patients nowadays. Nevertheless, 15% to 20% of patients do not reach complete remission and have refractory disease or relapse. For these patients high‐dose chemotherapy (HDCT) followed by autologous stem cell transplantation (ASCT) has become the optimal treatment option. However, the impact of this regimen on overall survival is still unclear. Therefore, we conducted a Cochrane Review on efficacy and safety of HDCT followed by ASCT in patients with primary refractory or relapsed HL. We searched several important medical databases (the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials and MEDLINE) and summarised and analysed evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs). We identified three RCTs corresponding to our pre‐defined inclusion criteria treating 398 patients. We included two trials that compared HDCT followed by ASCT versus conventional chemotherapy alone, and one trial evaluating additional sequential HDCT (SHDCT) followed by ASCT against HDCT followed by ASCT. 
Both trials assessing HDCT followed by ASCT versus conventional chemotherapy showed no significant improvement in overall survival, however progression‐free survival was significantly improved with HDCT followed by ASCT. Only one trial reported adverse events and showed no difference between the treatment arms. The other trial was prematurely closed as patients refused randomisation and requested ASCT. 
