Aripiprazole for autism spectrum disorders (ASD)
Background 
Aripirazole is an antipsychotic drug ‐ a type of medication used to treat serious mental disorders such as paranoia. It has also been used to treat behavioural problems (e.g. aggression, severe temper tantrums) in people with autism spectrum disorders (ASD). Aripiprazole has been shown to be well tolerated and to improve behavioural problems in other disorders such as schizophrenia and bipolar disorder. As aripiprazole is a relatively new drug, it is important to understand both the benefits and side effects of this drug in patients with ASD. 
Review question 
Do children and adults with ASD benefit from treatment with aripiprazole, compared with other children and adults with ASD who receive a drug with no active ingredient (placebo)? 
Study characteristics 
In this review, we included three studies that investigated effects of aripiprazole. Two were short‐term (eight weeks) studies that evaluated whether aripiprazole improved behavioural problems in a total of 316 children/adolescents. The third was a longer‐term (up to 16 weeks) study in which 85 children/adolescents whose symptoms initially improved on aripiprazole discontinued the medication to evaluate whether their behavioural problems recurred. All participants were between six and 17 years of age. All studies used multiple behavioural checklists to assess symptoms of ASD. 
Key results and quality of evidence 
Short‐term studies found improved irritability, hyperactivity and stereotypy (i.e. repetitive behaviours) and inappropriate speech in children/adolescents with ASD taking aripiprazole as compared with placebo. Researchers found no improvement in lethargy/withdrawal (i.e. lack of energy and reduced alertness). White children/adolescents were less likely to relapse (return to older, problematic behaviours) when taking aripiprazole, but this finding was not reported in children/adolescents of other races. Rates of movement disorder side effects such as tremor, muscle rigidity and involuntary movement were higher in children/adolescents taking aripiprazole in all trials. Results of this review suggest that short‐term use of aripiprazole may improve irritability, hyperactivity and repetitive movements in children/adolescents with ASD, although both weight gain and neurological side effects (e.g. involuntary movements of the face and jaw) can occur. Children and adolescents taking aripiprazole should be re‐evaluated periodically to monitor improvements in ASD symptoms and side effects. Overall, the quality of this evidence is moderate. Since the time these studies were conducted, an updated version of the manual for diagnosing ASD and other conditions has been published. Additional studies evaluating safety and benefits of long‐term use of aripiprazole would be helpful. 
