Closed‐system drug‐transfer devices for reducing exposure to infusional hazardous medicines in healthcare staff 
Some medicines – whether given as tablets or as a drip through the veins – are hazardous to the healthcare staff who handle them. Patients receive infusional hazardous medicines through the veins as treatment for serious diseases like cancer. When healthcare staff are exposed to these medicines, they can decrease their fertility and result in miscarriages, stillbirths, and cancers. Several recommended practices can reduce healthcare staff exposure to these hazardous medicines. These include protective clothing, gloves, and special cabinets where staff can prepare the hazardous medicines prior to giving them to patients. Together, these practices constitute 'safe handling'. A closed‐system drug‐transfer device (CSTD) is a device system that mechanically prevents the escape of hazardous drug outside the system. In addition, the systems also attempt to prevent microbiological contamination of the drug, potentially enabling reuse of multi‐dose vials (drug containers which have been designed in such a way that the medicines in the container can be used multiple times and for multiple patients) and decreasing the costs. 
What is the aim of this review? 
There is significant uncertainty as to whether using CSTD in addition to safe handling decreases the exposure and risk of staff contamination to hazardous medicines compared to safe handling alone and whether CSTD can lead to cost‐savings by allowing better reuse of multi‐dose vials. We sought to resolve this issue by searching for existing studies on the topic. 
Key messages 
Short or long‐term health outcomes were not reported in any studies. We found very low quality evidence (the best evidence available currently) that there is no considerable difference in exposure between CSTD plus safe handling versus safe handling alone. We also found very low quality evidence (the best evidence available currently) that there is no considerable effect of CSTD on the percentage of surfaces contaminated and the amount of contamination in in pharmacy and patient‐care areas for most drugs even though there was a small effect on contamination for one drug out of 24 studied and on amount of drug contamination for two drugs out of 15 studied . Therefore, no firm conclusions can be drawn on the effect of CSTD plus safe handling versus safe handling alone due to very low quality evidence available. Since most of the studies were conducted in pharmacy technicians and pharmacists and the CSTD used was PhaSeal, the evidence is applicable mainly to pharmacy technicians and pharmacists, and to PhaSeal. 
What was studied in the review? 
We included all types of studies that compared CSTD plus safe handling ('CSTD group') and safe handling alone ('control group'). 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included 24 studies (359 hospitals) in this review, none of which used the gold standard study design (randomised controlled trial) or explored a treatment's value for money. In 22 studies, the people who used the CSTD and safe handling were pharmacists or pharmacy technicians. Nineteen studies provide information that could be included for this study. 
No firm conclusion can be drawn on the effects of using CSTD on indirect measures of exposure such as the presence of the hazardous drug in the urine of the healthcare professionals or on the contamination of surfaces or the floor. 
There is significant variability between the studies in terms of whether the use of CSTD resulted in cost savings, with some studies reporting increased costs and others reporting decreased costs after introducing CSTD. None of the studies report on short or long‐term health outcomes such as reduction in skin rashes, infertility, miscarriage, development of any type of cancer, or adverse events. 
We judged the certainty of evidence for all outcomes to be very low because all the studies had one or more significant limitations in their design. Therefore, the reported effects of interventions are uncertain. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies up until 26 October 2017.
