Exercise versus airway clearance for people with cystic fibrosis
Review question 
Can exercise replace other methods of airway clearance for people with cystic fibrosis (CF)? 
Background 
CF affects many systems in the body, mainly the respiratory system. It causes a build‐up of thick, sticky mucus in the lungs which causes irritation and damage to the lining of the airways. CF treatment involves chest physiotherapy, also called airway clearance, which uses a range of devices or techniques to get rid of this mucus. It has been suggested that exercise may have a similar effect. Exercising results in a person taking different volumes and depths of breaths. This leads to pressure changes and forces within the airways that move secretions out of the lungs. We compared the effect on lung function of exercise versus other techniques, to see if exercise is a suitable alternative for people with CF. We wanted to answer our review question to potentially reduce their treatment burden. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 15 February 2022.
Study characteristics 
We searched the literature for studies where people received at least two treatment sessions of exercise or another airway clearance technique, and report on four studies including 86 people with CF in the review. The people in the studies were aged between 7 and 41 years and had varying degrees of disease severity. Three studies included people who were clinically well and one study included people admitted to hospital for a chest infection. The studies lasted between four days and six months and compared exercise (alone or in combination with another airway clearance technique) to other techniques. Two studies compared exercise with postural drainage and percussion (PD&P), one study compared exercise with the active cycle of breathing technique (ACBT) and one study compared exercise with underwater positive expiratory pressure (uPEP), also known as bubble PEP. Three studies received financial support from funding bodies such as the Cystic Fibrosis Trust, the Buffalo Foundation and the Romanian National Council for Scientific Research in Higher Education. 
