Reducing unwanted movement of teeth during treatment with orthodontic braces, comparing surgically placed implants as stabilisers (anchors) with other conventional methods 
Review question 
This review, produced by the Cochrane Oral Health Group, seeks to assess the effects of using implants surgically placed in bone in the mouth in order to stabilise (anchor) teeth during treatment with orthodontic braces and compares implants with the use of conventional methods. It also assesses the effects of different surgical anchorage techniques. 
Background 
Orthodontic treatment is used to correct crooked or sticking out teeth by moving the affected teeth into the correct position. The teeth are straightened by using a brace. Sometimes unwanted movement of other teeth is caused by the use of a brace and this is controlled by what is known as anchorage, or methods for stabilising these teeth. Conventionally anchorage sites are inside the mouth (intraoral) using teeth for example, or alternatively from outside the mouth (extraoral) using headgear devices attached to the head or neck. Sometimes when devices such as headgear are used there are issues with patients being reluctant to wear them, or they have been reported to cause injuries. 
As an alternative to these conventional methods, surgical techniques have been developed to put mini‐screws or other types of implants into bone in the mouth to provide a firm structure for anchorage (stabilisation) to prevent the unwanted movement of teeth during orthodontic treatments. 
These types of devices have become increasingly popular, however their effects have not been fully evaluated. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence on which this review is based was correct as of 28 October 2013. This is an update to an existing review, which included one study. Fifteen studies were included in this review involving data from 561 participants. The studies were conducted in Europe, India, China, South Korea and the USA. Most took place in university settings or training hospitals and one in a specialist orthodontic practice. Most studies contained a similar number of males and females, however there were more females than males in five studies and only females in two. The age range varied from adolescents and young adults to adults up to the age of 54 years. All participants in the studies needed a course of orthodontic treatment with additional anchorage control. None of the studies reported adverse effects. 
