Psychological therapies for anxiety and depression in children and adolescents with long‐term physical conditions 
Why is this review important? 
More than one in ten children and adolescents have long‐term physical conditions such as asthma, diabetes, and cancer. They are more likely to develop psychological problems like anxiety or depression. Treating these problems early can prevent difficulties with family life, school, and future mental health problems. It is currently unclear whether psychological therapies (talking therapies) designed for children and adolescents without medical issues are appropriate for use with this population. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
This review will be of interest to mental and medical healthcare providers, service users, and service commissioners. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
This review aims to answer the following questions: 1) Are psychological therapies better than a range of other therapies in reducing symptoms of anxiety and depression in children and adolescents with long‐term physical conditions? and 2) Are psychological therapies acceptable to this audience? 
Which studies were included in the review? 
We searched a number of databases to find all high‐quality trials of psychological therapies for anxiety or depression in children and adolescents aged 18 years or less with long‐term physical conditions and symptoms of anxiety or depression, published from 1970 to September 2018. We included twenty‐nine studies with a total of 1349 people in the review and rated the overall quality of the studies as 'low to moderate'. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
A handful of psychological therapies have been researched in children and adolescents with long‐term physical conditions. Most of these were developed for use with children and adolescents who do not have long‐term physical conditions. Some of these, particularly those based on principles of cognitive behaviour therapy (CBT) and therapies specifically designed to treat depression or anxiety, are effective at reducing mild symptoms of these conditions in the short term. There is limited evidence that such therapies are acceptable to young people and that they can improve quality of life and symptoms of long‐term physical conditions. There is currently a lack of therapies for addressing health‐related anxiety in this population. 
