Checklists and specialist teams to recognise and manage sick people in hospital
What was the aim of the review? 
Adults in hospital who become unwell need to be identified quickly by clinical staff as requiring help. One way to do this is for doctors and nurses working on hospital wards to use a checklist of vital signs (e.g. blood pressure, pulse) to help them to recognise signs that patients are getting worse. These checklists are then used to refer patients to specialist teams of doctors and nurses for rapid assessment and treatment. We conducted this review to understand if using a checklist and referring to a specialist team reduces the number of deaths, unplanned intensive care unit (ICU) admissions/readmissions, hospital length of stay, and cardiac or respiratory arrest compared to hospital wards without these resources. 
Key messages 
We found evidence that checklists to help doctors and nurses recognise and refer patients who get worse early to specialist teams for management may result in little or no difference to the number of deaths, unplanned ICU admissions, length of hospital stay or cardiac arrests in hospital. 
What did we study in the review? 
This Cochrane Review presents what we know from research on the effect of hospital checklists to help doctors and nurses recognise and refer patients who are getting worse in hospital to specialist teams for help. Research has shown that patients in acute hospital wards often show early signs and symptoms, such as changes in breathing and pulse, when their condition is getting worse. It is thought that if hospital staff could identify and refer those patients who are getting worse earlier to specialist teams with appropriate knowledge and skills in acute care (active but short‐term treatment), then there would be fewer deaths, unplanned ICU admissions, cardiac arrests and reduced length of stay. 
What were the main results of the review? 
We identified 11 studies. In total, 666,131 participants in 282 hospitals were included from seven middle‐ to high‐income countries. The implementation of a checklist to recognise deteriorating patients and a specialist team to rapidly assess and treat presenting symptoms make little or no difference to deaths, unplanned ICU admissions, length of hospital stay, or cardiac and respiratory arrests compared to the wards or hospitals without access to the checklist and specialist team. No studies reported ICU readmission rates. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies published up to May 2020.
