The effects of iron supplementation on iron deficiency and deferral in blood donors
Iron deficiency can cause symptoms of tiredness. The interval between blood donations is set by independent regulators to minimise iron deficiency in donors. Potential blood donors are screened each time they visit to give blood to see if they have iron deficiency. Donors who do not pass this screening test and so cannot give blood are deferred and asked to delay giving blood, but many of these donors do not return. If blood donors take iron tablets then the risk of becoming iron deficient may be reduced. However, the balance between the benefits of giving iron and the possible side effects is not clear. We have reviewed all the randomised trials testing the benefits of giving blood donors iron. The evidence is current up to November 2013. 
We found 30 randomised trials of iron supplementation in blood donors with a total of 4704 participants. We found that some of the studies did not report details of their design very well and people in some of the studies left the study early and did not contribute data. Combining the results from four studies, we have shown that around 3% of donors who were given iron supplements were unable to give blood when they next came to donate because the levels of iron in their blood were too low, compared with 10% of donors who did not take iron. More than this, 4% of iron‐supplemented donors were unable to give blood at any future donation due to low iron levels, compared with around 20% of donors not given iron supplementation. 
However, 29% of donors who took iron tablets experienced side effects compared with 17% of donors who were given dummy tablets. Combined data from two studies showed that the iron‐supplemented donors had nearly five times the chance of stomach upsets and changes in their taste compared to donors who did not take these tablets. 
Due to the issues around how reliable the studies were, the quality of evidence is moderate and these results could change with more research. 
