Surgical interventions for treating distal humeral fractures in adults
The distal humerus is the end of the upper arm bone (the humerus) and forms the upper part of the elbow joint. Its structure is highly complex as it connects with both forearm bones (the radius and ulna) to allow a wide range of motion: in bending and straightening out of the elbow, and rotating of the forearm. Fractures to the distal humerus most often occur in young men from high‐energy trauma; or older women, aged 60 years and over, who typically have osteoporosis and whose fracture results from a low‐energy fall. Most distal humeral fractures need surgical intervention because elbow motion is either very difficult or impossible. Open reduction and internal fixation, to hold the bone fragments in place until the bone is healed, with various plates and fixation techniques is the standard surgical treatment, especially in younger patients. Total elbow replacement or arthroplasty is where the distal humerus and ulna bone ends forming the elbow are replaced by an artificial joint. Imposed lifting restrictions, irrespective of age, are necessary for successful total elbow arthoplasty. 
Despite a comprehensive search, we identified only three small randomised controlled trials with a total of 109 participants. Each trial tested different interventions for treating a complete intra‐articular fracture in which the joint surface is separated from the shaft of the humerus. One trial compared open reduction and internal fixation versus total elbow replacement in people aged 65 years and older. This found some limited evidence that internal fixation is sometimes not practical for some more complex and difficult fractures and that people treated total elbow replacement may have a better outcome early on (around six months). The second trial compared two ways of placing two plates used for internal fixation. These were either perpendicular (where the plates were at right angles to each other along the bone) or parallel (where the plates were on either side of the bone). The trial did not find any major differences in outcome between the two methods. The third trial did not provide clear evidence of a difference in two surgical approaches of managing pre‐operative ulnar nerve dysfunction. 
In all, none of these three under‐sized trials provided adequate evidence to determine which of the surgical interventions under test was the most appropriate. The review found no evidence to inform on the use of more current methods of surgical fixation, specifically the use of locking plates. 
