Interventions to enhance return‐to‐work for cancer patients
Research question 
What is the best way to help cancer patients get back to work when compared to care as usual? 
Background 
Each year more and more people who get cancer manage to get through treatment alive. Many cancer survivors live well, although they can continue to experience long‐lasting problems such as fatigue, pain and depression. These long‐term effects can cause problems with cancer survivors' participation in working life. Therefore, cancer is a significant cause of absence from work, unemployment and early retirement. Cancer patients, their families and society at large all carry part of the burden. In this Cochrane review we evaluated how well cancer patients can be helped to return to work. 
Study characteristics 
The search date was 25 March 2014. Fifteen randomised controlled trials including 1835 cancer patients met the inclusion criteria. We found four types of interventions. In the first, psycho‐educational interventions, participants learned about physical side effects, stress and coping and they took part in group discussions. In the second type of physical intervention participants took part in exercises such as walking. In the third type of intervention, participants received medical interventions ranging from cancer drugs to surgery. The fourth kind concerned multidisciplinary interventions in which vocational counselling, patient education, patient counselling, biofeedback‐assisted behavioral training and/or physical exercises were combined.We did not find any studies on vocational interventions aimed at work‐related issues. 
Key results 
Results suggest that multidisciplinary interventions involving physical, psycho‐educational and/or vocational components led to more cancer patients returning to work than when they received care as usual. Quality of life was similar. When studies compared psycho‐educational, physical and medical interventions with care as usual they found that similar numbers of people returned to work in all groups. 
