The effect of psychological preparation on pain, behavioural recovery, negative emotion and length of stay after surgery 
Background 
The way people think and feel before surgery can affect how they feel and what they do after surgery. For example, research shows that people who feel more anxious before their surgery experience more pain after it. A review conducted in 1993 looked at the impact of psychological preparation on outcomes after surgery. The term `psychological preparation' includes a range of techniques that aim to change what people think, how they feel or what they do. This 1993 review found that psychological preparation techniques reduced pain after surgery, improved behavioural recovery (how quickly people return to activities), decreased length of stay in hospital and reduced negative emotion (e.g. feelings of anxiety or depression). We aimed to carry out an up‐to‐date review using Cochrane methodology to learn whether there are helpful (or harmful) effects of psychological preparation for people undergoing surgery, and which outcomes (pain after surgery, behavioural recovery, negative emotion or length of stay) are improved. 
Study characteristics 
We included studies of adults who received planned surgery with general anaesthesia. We looked at seven psychological preparation techniques: procedural information (information about what, when and how processes will happen); sensory information (what the experience will feel like and what other sensations they may have, e.g. taste, smell); behavioural instruction (telling patients what they need to do); cognitive intervention (techniques that aim to change how people think); relaxation techniques; hypnosis; and emotion‐focused interventions (techniques that aim to help people to manage their feelings). The psychological preparation had to be delivered before surgery for the study to be included in the review. We included studies that looked at the effect of psychological preparation on pain, behavioural recovery, length of stay and negative emotion after surgery (within one month). Studies were included in the review up to the search date of 4 May 2014. We updated the search on 7 July 2015 and will incorporate the 38 studies found in this later search when the review is updated. We included 105 studies from 115 papers, with 10,302 participants taking part. Sixty‐one studies measured the outcome pain, 14 behavioural recovery, 58 length of stay and 49 negative emotion. In accordance with the review protocol, we did not record details about funding sources. 
