Interventions to hire, retain and train district health systems managers
Researchers in the Cochrane Collaboration conducted a review of the effect of interventions to hire, retain and train district health systems managers in low‐ and middle‐income countries. After searching for all relevant studies, they found only two that met their prespecified study selection criteria. 
Interventions to hire, retain and train district health systems managers 
In many low‐ and middle‐income countries, the responsibility for managing important aspects of the health services are being decentralized to local governing bodies, including district health teams. As a result, district health systems managers are playing an increasingly important role. 
A district manager is responsible for overseeing the operations of the health system within a particular subnational geographical area. District health systems managers are often responsible for planning and budgeting, human resources management and service quality monitoring. Poor performance by a district manager can lead to a number of problems, such as lack of drugs and supplies, delayed repair of broken equipment, health worker absenteeism and lack of motivation among health workers. 
Different approaches are used to improve the quality of district managers.  Some of these approaches address the way in which managers are hired and retained, for instance by making district management positions more attractive or by giving contracts ('contracting‐in') to private, nongovernmental organizations (NGOs). Other approaches focus on the training and education of managers. All of these approaches aim to improve the quality of the health system and thereby the health of the population. 
What happens when efforts are made to hire, retain and train district health systems managers? 
It is difficult to draw any conclusions about the effects of these types of interventions as the review only found two relevant studies. In addition, the evidence that the review did identify was of low quality. 
Training: The available evidence suggests that in‐service district manager training:
·       may lead to more knowledge about planning processes 
·       may lead to better monitoring and evaluation skills
None of the studies assessed the effects of district manager training on people’s health, on their access to or use of health care, or on the quality or efficiency of care. 
Contracting‐in: The available evidence suggests that private contracts with international NGOs for district health systems management: 
·       may not affect people’s illness reporting, diarrhea incidence or infant death
·       may increase the likelihood that a health facility is open 24 hours
·       may increase the availability of medical equipment and supplies
·       may increase people’s use of antenatal care and public facilities
None of the studies assessed the effects of contracting‐in district management on the quality or efficiency of health care, on job vacancy rates, or on district manager knowledge and skills. 
