Once daily long‐acting beta2‐agonists and long‐acting muscarinic antagonists in a combined inhaler versus placebo for COPD 
We wanted to know whether once‐daily treatment with a fixed‐dose combination of a long‐acting beta2 agonist (LABA) plus a long‐acting muscarinic antagonist (LAMA) delivered via a single inhaler is better than treatment with a dummy inhaler (placebo) for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). 
Background to the review 
COPD is a disease of the lungs and is the fourth most common cause of death worldwide. People with COPD experience symptoms of cough, breathlessness and a build up of mucus, which become worse over time. Current treatments for COPD aim to manage these symptoms and improve the quality of life of people with the disease. 
A combination of a LABA plus a LAMA taken once‐daily in a single inhaler (LABA/LAMA) has been shown to be more effective than taking each separately in individual inhalers. Several different combinations of inhaled LABA and LAMA are available (e.g. indacaterol/glycopyrronium, olodaterol/tiotropium, formoterol/aclidinium, and vilanterol/umeclidinium) and are used for the treatment of COPD. By gathering information from clinical trials that compare once‐daily LABA/LAMA with placebo in a dummy inhaler we will provide information to help future research decide which combination is best for treating people with COPD. 
What did we find? 
Twenty‐two studies (including 8641 people with COPD) compared once‐daily LABA/LAMA in a single inhaler with a dummy inhaler. People were allowed to continue to use their inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) during the studies; approximately a third to a half of people were using their ICS at the beginning of each study. The evidence presented in this review is current up to December 2018. The majority of people who took part in the studies had mild‐to‐moderate COPD and the average age of people in each study ranged from 59 to 65 years. Six studies evaluated the once‐daily combination of indacaterol/glycopyrronium, seven studies evaluated tiotropium/olodaterol, eight studies evaluated umeclidinium/vilanterol and one study evaluated aclidinium/formoterol. 
People who took once‐daily LABA/LAMA using a single inhaler showed a greater improvement in quality of life than those taking placebo in a dummy inhaler; lung function was also improved in people taking once‐daily LABA/LAMA. People taking umeclidinium/vilanterol had fewer flare‐ups (exacerbations). There was no significant difference between groups (LABA/LAMA versus placebo) in the number of people who died, or in the number of people who experienced serious adverse events or any adverse event. The results were similar for the different LABA/LAMA combinations and doses that we evaluated. 
The included studies were generally well designed and well reported. People in the studies and those performing the research did not know which treatment people were receiving, which ensures a fair evaluation of the treatments. 
In three of the studies, people who were taking once‐daily LABA/LAMA had more severe COPD at the start of the study than people taking dummy inhalers; this could have reduced the treatment effect seen with LABA/LAMA in these studies so we can be confident that our findings do not overestimate the effect seen with once‐daily LABA/LAMA. One of the outcomes of interest (how far a person is able to walk in six minutes) was not reported by any of the included studies. Overall, we can be confident in the conclusions of this review. 
