What are the best ways for recovering movement in the hand after surgery to repair flexor tendons (tendons in the hand that enable fingers to bend)? 
Why is this question important? 
Flexor tendons are strong smooth cords that connect the muscles in the forearm (between the hand and elbow) to the bones in the fingers. These tendons allow us to bend our fingers. (Other tendons, known as extensor tendons, allow us to straighten them.) 
If flexor tendons become damaged – for example, because of a deep cut from broken glass – surgery is usually needed. The aim of surgery is to repair the tendons so that movement can be restored in the affected fingers. 
After surgery, the tendons need a lengthy period of rehabilitation to recover from the injury, the surgery and to restore movement. This period typically lasts 12 weeks, though it can be longer for people with complex injuries or with complications such as joint deformities. Rehabilitation usually involves several different steps. After surgery, people often must wear a splint or other devise to stabilise or immobilise the hand and wrist. They also often must do hand exercises to stop the repaired tendons from sticking to surrounding tissue and limiting hand movement. 
There are many kinds of different rehabilitation programmes, but it is unclear whether some are better than others. We set out to review the evidence from research studies, to find out: 
‐ which approaches are most effective in restoring finger motion and function; and
‐ which approaches minimise the risk of adverse (unwanted) events, such as tendon ruptures, scar tissue sticking to other tissues, and joint stiffness. 
How did we identify and evaluate the evidence? 
First, we searched for studies in the medical literature that compared any rehabilitation approach after flexor tendon surgery against: 
‐ no treatment;
‐ a placebo (dummy) treatment (in which, for example, someone thinks they may be receiving laser therapy but the machine is switched off); or 
‐ another rehabilitation approach.
We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies that tested the same comparison. 
What did we find? 
We found 17 studies that involved a total of 1108 people who had received surgery to repair torn flexor tendons. The people were aged between 7 and 72 years, and three‐quarters of them were male. 
Ten studies evaluated one each of eight different hand exercise programmes. The other seven studies evaluated a variety of other rehabilitation approaches, such as: 
‐ laser therapy, in which light is directed at the tendons to encourage healing;
‐ ultrasound, in which sound waves are directed at the tendons to encourage healing; and 
‐ a wearable machine (exoskeleton), designed to assist people in their movements.
We found very little evidence about the benefits and risks of different rehabilitation approaches. The evidence we did find was not robust. For example, for the three most relevant exercise comparisons we identified only: 
‐ one study (84 people) that compared finger exercises against immobilisation;
‐ one study (53 people) that evaluated the effects of adding regular finger exercises (20 to 30 times every waking hour for four weeks from the first day after surgery) to ‘passive’ exercises (in which people regularly folded the fingers in the injured hand using the uninjured hand); and 
‐ three studies (190 people) that evaluated the effects of adding ‘place and hold’ exercises (during which people use their uninjured hand to fold the fingers of the injured hand, and then have to hold the folded fingers in place for a few seconds without any support) to passive exercises. 
The studies were too small, or reported too little robust or usable information, for us to determine which approach is best. 
What does this mean? 
We do not know which method works best for people to recover movement in the hand after surgery to repair flexor tendons. This is because there is not enough robust evidence about the benefits and risks of different methods. 
