Plasma exchange for Guillain‐Barré syndrome
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of plasma exchange in people with Guillain‐Barré syndrome (GBS). 
Background 
GBS is a rare, serious disease in which the peripheral nerves (nerves outside the central nervous system) become inflamed. The condition causes paralysis and sensory disturbance. Many people who develop GBS have had a recent chest or intestinal infection that may cause an allergic attack on the nerves. Antibodies against the infection also target the nerves and cause GBS. Plasma exchange removes soluble factors including antibodies from the blood and is used as treatment. Plasma exchange replaces the person's own plasma with an artificial plasma substitute, usually an albumin solution. 
Study characteristics 
We carried out a wide search of medical databases for trials in which participants were randomly assigned to plasma exchange or no treatment except supportive care. We found six trials, which included 649 participants in total. All six trials compared plasma exchange with supportive treatment. All were at low risk of bias, except that participants and their carers were aware of the treatment given (they were not blinded). Two additional studies compared different numbers of plasma exchange and could not be included in the analysis but are discussed. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Plasma exchange speeded improvement from GBS. It did not cause harm apart from being followed by a probable slight increase in risk of relapse. Despite this, plasma exchange probably increases the chance of complete muscle strength recovery after one year. No new trials have been done since the first publication of this review in 2001. However trials have been done comparing plasma exchange with intravenous infusion of human immune globulin (the antibody portion of plasma). These trials are included in another Cochrane review and show the effects of the two treatments are similar. 
The evidence is up to date to 18 January 2016.
