Social skills training for children aged between 5 and 18 with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) 
Review question 
What are the benefits and harms of social skills training for children and adolescents with attention deficit hyperactivity disorder (ADHD)? 
Background 
Children and adolescents with ADHD experience hyperactivity, impulsivity, attention problems, and difficulties with social interactions. Social skills training for ADHD seeks to improve and maintain social interaction and prevent interpersonal difficulties. Programs tend to focus on problem solving, control of emotions, and improving verbal and non‐verbal communication. We examined the benefits and harms of social skills training on the following outcomes: social skills, emotional competencies, general behaviour, ADHD symptoms, and performance in school. 
Study characteristics 
We found 25 randomised clinical trials (studies where participants with ADHD were randomly assigned to one of two or more groups) involving a total of 2690 participants. The trials lasted between five weeks and two years. The social skills training generally focused on teaching the children how to 'read' the subtle cues in social interaction, such as learning to wait for their turn, knowing when to shift topics during a conversation, and being able to recognise the emotional expressions of others. Social skills training often consists of role play, exercises and games, as well as homework. Children in the control groups either received no intervention or were placed on a waiting list. 
Key results 
We found no significant differences between social skills training versus controls on social skills, emotional competencies, and general behaviour as assessed by teachers. Compared with the children who had no social skills training, teachers rated those who had been in the social skills groups as having fewer ADHD symptoms at the end of treatment.. However, this finding was questionable because our other analyses did not support it. We found no indications of harmful effects. 
All trials suffered from methodological problems such as overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms. Many studies were also difficult to compare because they involved different interventions. The results from some trials were not very precise, which means it is difficult to be confident in the results. In seven trials, study authors were board members of pharmaceutical companies, had received funding from such companies, or had performed previous research on the topic. 
