Long‐acting beta2‐agonists for chronic asthma in adults and children where background therapy contains varied or no inhaled corticosteroid 
Note added in July 2014: Since the original version of this review, guidance around LABA has changed. International asthma guidelines now only recommend the use of LABA in conjunction with ICS. The US Food and Drug Agency (FDA) has issued a warning that LABA should not be used to treat asthma without concurrent ICS. The review will continue to be available for people to read on the Cochrane Library, but we will not update the review again. It is no longer considered safe to take LABA on their own without taking inhaled steroids due to harms which can occur. 
Plain language summary published in 2006: In this review of studies in which patients were either not on inhaled corticosteroids, or in which some patients but not all were on inhaled corticosteroids, treatment with regular long‐acting beta‐2 agonists such as salmeterol (Serevent) or formoterol (Foradil, Oxis) in chronic asthma resulted in fewer asthma symptoms by day or night, less relief bronchodilator medication requirement, better lung function, a lower risk of acute worsening of asthma and better quality of life, but most of the evidence comes from groups in which at least some used inhaled corticosteroid therapy. There is less information on asthma control in patients who did not use a regular 'preventer medication' or in children under twelve years, but the same generally positive effects on symptoms and lung function seem to apply. We have also been particularly focused on serious adverse events, given previous concerns about potential risks, especially of death, from regular beta‐2 agonist use. A significant increase in asthma related deaths or life threatening experiences has been found in a recently published surveillance study, with an increased risk of around one event over 6 months for every thousand patients treated. This increase was mainly in African‐Americans and those not on inhaled corticosteroids, although these observations were drawn from analyses conducted after the event (post‐hoc) and as such lack the validity of pre‐defined distinctions. 
