What are the benefits and risks of percutaneous blood clot removal (thrombectomy) and dissolution of blood clot accelerated by ultrasound waves (ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis) for treating acute limb ischaemia? 
Key messages 
Because of a lack of robust evidence, the benefits and risks of percutaneous blood clot removal (the removal of a blood clot via a needle puncture in the skin, known as percutaneous thrombectomy) or ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis (where ultrasound waves are sent by a specific device into the blood vessel to accelerate the dissolution of a blood clot) for the initial treatment of acute limb ischaemia are unclear. 
Future research in this area should focus on the effectiveness of treatment options such as blood clot removal, catheter‐directed thrombolysis (drug delivery into the blood clot to dissolve the clot), and open surgery (to remove the clot and improve blood flow), as well as investigating any unwanted effects of these treatments.  
What is acute limb ischaemia and how is it treated? 
Acute ischaemia is a common condition that affects the limbs. Caused by a sudden and significant reduction of blood flow to the limb, acute limb ischaemia can result in pain, paralysis, pallor, and coldness, and in severe cases, it can lead to amputation. 
Standard treatments for the initial management of acute limb ischaemia include open surgery and catheter‐directed thrombolysis. Other treatments for the initial management for acute limb ischaemia are percutaneous thrombectomy and ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if percutaneous thrombectomy or ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis are better than catheter‐directed thrombolysis or open surgery at improving blood flow and reducing amputation, bleeding, and other risks. 
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled studies that examined percutaneous thrombectomy or ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis and compared these with either catheter‐directed thrombolysis or open surgery in adults with acute limb ischaemia. In randomised controlled studies, the treatments or tests people receive are decided at random, and these usually give the most reliable evidence about treatment effects. We compared and summarised the results of the identified study and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as methods and size of the study. 
What did we find? 
We found one study that involved 60 people with acute limb ischaemia. The study lasted 30 days and compared ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis with catheter‐directed thrombolysis. The study did not present the results in a way that could tell us whether ultrasound‐accelerated thrombolysis, compared with catheter‐directed thrombolysis, had an effect on blood flow, and it is unclear if these treatments have an effect on amputation, bleeding, and other risks. Thus, we are very uncertain about the results. 
