Does hypnotherapy help people who are trying to stop smoking?
Background 
Smoking is the leading cause of preventable illness and death worldwide. Stopping smoking greatly improves people's health, even when they are older. Different types of hypnotherapy are used to try and help people to quit smoking. Some methods try to weaken people's desire to smoke, strengthen their will to quit, or help them concentrate on a 'quit programme'. We reviewed the evidence on the effect of hypnotherapy in people who wanted to quit smoking. 
Study characteristics 
We found 14 studies comparing hypnotherapy with other approaches to help people stop smoking (including brief advice, or more intensive stop‐smoking counselling), or no treatment. Overall, 1926 people were included. Studies lasted at least six months. The studies varied greatly in terms of the treatments they compared, so it was difficult to combine their results. We searched for evidence up to 18 July 2018. 
Key results 
When we combined the results of six studies (with a total of 957 people) there was no evidence that hypnotherapy helped people quit smoking more than behavioural interventions, such as counselling, when delivered over the same amount of time. There was also no evidence that there was a difference between hypnotherapy and longer counselling programmes when we combined results from two studies (269 people). One study compared hypnotherapy with no treatment and found an effect in favour of hypnotherapy, but the study was small (40 people) and had issues with its methods, which means we cannot be certain about this finding. Most of the studies did not say if they also evaluated the safety of hypnotherapy. Five studies looked at adding hypnotherapy to existing treatments and found an effect, but the studies were at high risk of bias and there were large, unexplained differences in their findings. One study that compared hypnotherapy and relaxation found no difference in side effects. 
Certainty of evidence 
The evidence in this review ranges from low to very low certainty, as there was not enough information and many of the studies had issues with their designs. 
There is no clear evidence that hypnotherapy is better than other approaches in helping people to stop smoking. If a benefit is present, current evidence suggests the benefit is small at most. Larger, high‐quality studies are needed. 
