Are telephone or internet check‐ups a safe alternative to being seen face‐to‐face?
Take‐home message  Studies that tried to answer this research question did not show important differences between the two types of check‐up. However, there is not enough information to rule out differences in their harms or benefits. At this stage, we cannot say whether or not asthma check‐ups conducted over the phone or internet are a safe alternative to usual face‐to‐face consultations. 
Background  Regular contact with a doctor or asthma nurse is essential to keep track of symptoms and use of inhalers. Telephone and internet technologies may be a way to manage the rising number of people with asthma and other long‐term health conditions. This has been referred to as 'remote reviews' or e‐consultations, and may be a way of more easily keeping contact between patients and doctors, but we don't know whether it's as good as meeting face‐to‐face. 
Study characteristics  We found a total of six studies including 2100 participants: four studies including 792 people could be pooled for the main results, and two other studies were looked at separately because their designs were very different (n = 1213 and n = 95). People in the four pooled studies in general took regular medications and we excluded those with severe asthma or other lung diseases. We looked at two other studies with very different designs to the main four separately: one compared a practice where people with asthma were given the option of a telephone check‐up or a practice visit where they came to the clinic as usual, and one looked specifically at using technology to monitor people while cutting down their oral steroids dose. We last looked for studies on 24 November 2015. 
Key results  We cannot say whether or not people who had a check‐up over the phone or internet were more or less likely to need oral corticosteroids for an asthma attack than those seen face‐to‐face, and we were uncertain of the result for several reasons. Too few people had asthma attacks that needed treatment in the Emergency Department or hospital, or an unscheduled visit to see their doctor to tell if remote check‐ups were as good as face‐to‐face consultations. There didn't appear to be a difference in asthma control or quality of life, but we were able to rule out the possibility that remote check‐ups are not as good as face‐to‐face consultations on these measures. The evidence was all considered to be of low or moderate quality. The study that tested the possible benefit of giving people the option of a telephone check‐up showed that this increased the number of people reviewed, but did not show an overall benefit on asthma outcomes. 
