Calcitonin testing for detection of medullary thyroid cancer in patients with thyroid nodules 
Review question 
What is the value of the calcitonin test for the diagnosis of medullary thyroid cancer in people with a thyroid nodule? 
Background 
Thyroid nodules are very common in the general population. In some people this nodule turns out to be a medullary thyroid carcinoma, which is a rare tumour of the thyroid gland. Calcitonin is one of the hormones produced by the thyroid, but in a large proportion of patients with medullary thyroid cancer the calcitonin level is increased. It can therefore be used as a sensitive tumour marker. In certain cases the production of calcitonin by the tumour can be stimulated in a stimulation test, to differentiate more accurately between calcitonin production by the tumour or other causes. However, there is no consensus if calcitonin testing should be routinely used in all people who have a thyroid nodule. We evaluated the available literature to address the accuracy of calcitonin testing in people with thyroid nodules for detection of medullary thyroid carcinoma. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for evidence in the literature until June 2018 and identified a total of 16 studies. Studies were included if a routine calcitonin test (with or without the stimulation test) was performed in all included people with thyroid nodular disease. 
Key results 
In total 72,638 people with thyroid nodular disease were enrolled in the analysed studies, of which 187 had medullary thyroid carcinoma. Our findings indicate that both basal and stimulated calcitonin testing are able to detect nearly all people with medullary thyroid carcinoma. However, because medullary thyroid carcinoma is very rare in persons with a thyroid nodule, there is large chance that calcitonin levels are false positives (i.e. the test indicates the disease, whereas in fact there is none). 
In practice this means that for every 10,000 persons with thyroid nodular disease, 23 persons will have medullary thyroid carcinoma. Of these, none will be missed using a basal calcitonin threshold of 10 pg/mL, while 280 people will have a false‐positive test result. This might lead to unnecessary surgery of the thyroid with the need for life‐long thyroid hormone supplementation and risk of complications. With the use of a stimulation test the chance of a false‐positive test result may be reduced, however due to lack of sufficient studies this could not be calculated. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of the evidence is importantly limited, because almost all studies did not report adequately on the outcome of people who had a negative calcitonin test. A number of patients who had medullary thyroid carcinoma were possibly not identified. The diagnostic accuracy can already be markedly affected when a small number of patients is missed because medullary thyroid carcinoma is very rare. 
