Task‐oriented intervention for children with developmental co‐ordination disorder
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effects of interventions that aim to practise real‐life tasks on the movement skills of children with developmental co‐ordination disorder (DCD). 
Background 
DCD is a common childhood disorder characterised by difficulties in performing essential movement‐based activities. DCD can make it difficult for children to take care of themselves at home, do well at school, or participate in sport and leisure activities because they find it difficult to move their hands and body effectively. Their movement problems can affect their confidence and social life. Task‐oriented interventions use specific activities that are meaningful to the children and provide them with an opportunity to practise these activities to improve corresponding motor skills. This review investigated how effective task‐oriented interventions are for the movement performance, psychosocial functions, activity, and participation for children with DCD. 
Study characteristics 
We systematically searched for studies that examined the effect of task‐oriented interventions for children with DCD. We found 15 appropriate studies involving 649 children from five to 12 years of age with a diagnosis of DCD. The participants were from Australia, Canada, China, Sweden, Taiwan, and the UK. Trials were conducted in hospital settings; at a university‐based clinic, laboratory, or centre; in community centres; at home or school, or both at home and school. Most trials were small and of poor quality. The duration of the intervention was often short (i.e. less than six months). 
Key results 
We were only able to combine the results from six studies in a meta‐analysis, a statistical method to summarise the results from several independent studies. Together these studies suggest that task‐oriented interventions have a moderately positive effect on movement problems. However, the finding from the two strongest studies alone indicated that task‐oriented interventions do not improve movement problems. 
We were unable to use the remaining nine included studies in a meta‐analysis because of insufficient data, or because the interventions used in the control groups (without a task‐oriented intervention) were too different to combine. As a result, we were unable to perform any meta‐analyses on many of our intended outcome measures or look at the effects of age, sex, severity of DCD, or how much intervention was received. 
Two studies reported no side effects. Through email correspondence, the authors of nine studies indicated that no injuries had occurred. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was generally low, meaning we are very uncertain about the findings of this review. 
Conclusions 
At the moment, task‐oriented interventions may be useful for children with DCD in improving their performance on movement tests. We cannot be sure about benefits in other areas. Higher‐quality research is needed to investigate and establish the effect of task‐oriented intervention for children with DCD. 
