Risk‐reducing surgical removal of fallopian tubes and ovaries in women with mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes 
Background Mutations in the breast cancer 1 gene (BRCA1) or breast cancer 2 gene (BRCA2) increase the risk of developing some cancers including breast, ovarian, tubal and peritoneal cancers. Risk‐reducing salpingo‐oophorectomy (RRSO) (removal of both fallopian tubes and ovaries) is usually offered to women with BRCA1, BRCA2 or both mutations after they have finished their childbearing. However, how much of a reduction in risk of breast and high‐grade serous cancer (HGSC) of fallopian tube, ovarian and primary peritoneal origin RRSO offers, and the effect on other health outcomes, are still uncertain and it is unclear whether RRSO differs in effectiveness by type of mutation. 
Review question Does RRSO in women with mutations in BRCA1 or BRCA2 genes reduce the risk of developing breast and HGSC and what effect does this have on risk of death (overall survival) and quality of life? 
Study characteristics In this review, we analysed data from 10 non‐randomised (cohort; a study in which a defined group of people (the cohort) is followed over time, to examine associations between different treatments received and subsequent outcomes) studies. All the studies compared RRSO with or without risk‐reducing mastectomy (RRM; surgical removal of breasts) versus no RRSO (surveillance). The evidence is current to July 2017. 
Main findings Including data from both BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers, this analysis found that RRSO may improve overall survival, and reduce deaths from HGSC and breast cancer. When analysed by mutated gene, there was evidence for a reduction in risk of HGSC and breast cancer for women with BRCA1 mutations, but may or may not have been an effect on women with BRCA2 mutations due to low numbers of women with these mutations in the studies. None of the studies reported on bone fracture or severe side effects. Both RRSO and RRM may have improved overall survival, but did not reduce deaths from breast cancer. There was no protection and differences for breast cancer mortality according to age at RRSO (50 years of age or less versus more than 50 years) in BRCA1 or BRCA2 carriers. RRSO may have improved quality of life with regard to ovarian cancer risk perception. 
Reliability of the evidence The reliability of the evidence was low to very low due to the small numbers of participants and low methodological quality of included studies. 
What are the conclusions? RRSO in women with BRCA1 or BRCA2 mutations may improve overall survival and may reduce the number of HGSC and breast cancer deaths when women with mutations in both genes were combined. RRSO may reduce the risk of death from HGSC and breast cancer in women with BRCA1 mutations, but may or may not reduce the risk for BRCA2 mutation carriers. These results should be interpreted with caution due to low quality of study designs and risk of bias profiles. We cannot make any conclusions regarding number of bone fracture, overall quality of life, severe side effects for RRSO and effects of RRSO based on type of risk‐reducing surgery and age at the time of RRSO. However, we found the reliability of the evidence to be very low, so there is still a need for large, high‐quality studies which should specifically look at these outcomes for differences in BRCA1 or BRCA2 carriers. 
