Can breathing support using continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP), given within the first hour of life, prevent death and illness in premature babies? 
Key messages 
Premature babies given breathing support within the first hour of life with continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) – where air is pushed into the baby’s nose at a constant pressure and the baby breathes by itself – compared to oxygen alone, may be less likely to be put on a ventilator ‐ where a tube is inserted into the baby’s lungs and a machine breathes for the baby. 
CPAP in the first hour after birth compared to a ventilator probably leads to less lung damage, fewer deaths, and less need for babies to be put on a ventilator. 
One small study looked at the effect of the timing of CPAP after birth (up to 15 minutes compared to up to 1 hour), so there was not enough evidence to make a judgement regarding timing. 
What is continuous positive airway pressure? 
Continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) helps people with breathing difficulties by pushing air into their lungs through the nose at a constant pressure. Air is delivered through a mask that fits over the nose, or prongs that sit in the nostrils. CPAP is less invasive than mechanical ventilation, when a tube is put down the throat into the lungs and a machine (a ventilator) ‘breathes’ for the patient. CPAP provides more breathing support than just giving oxygen.  
How does CPAP help premature babies? 
Premature babies are those babies born before 37 weeks of development (gestation). They may have trouble breathing because their lungs are not fully developed. This is called ‘respiratory distress syndrome’ (RDS). Premature babies with non‐severe RDS may be treated with warmth, fluids, calories, and oxygen. Babies with severe RDS are given breathing support with CPAP or a ventilator. Babies breathe by themselves with CPAP, but the pressure of the stream of air that CPAP delivers keeps the baby’s airways open between breaths. Babies on CPAP avoid being put on ventilators, which can cause lung damage, such as bronchopulmonary dysplasia (BPD). 
CPAP can be given within the first 15 minutes after birth (preventive CPAP), or up to an hour after birth as therapy if babies show early signs of RDS (very early CPAP).  
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know if preventive CPAP and very early CPAP are effective in preventing RDS in premature babies. We were interested in: 
