Aerobic exercise for adults with fibromyalgia
This review summarizes the effects of aerobic exercise for adults with fibromyalgia.
What are aerobic exercises? 
Aerobic exercises, such as walking and swimming, cause harder breathing and faster heart beating than occur at rest. Benefits of doing aerobic exercise include strengthening the heart and improving circulation, lowering blood pressure, and helping to control blood sugar and weight. 
What problems does fibromyalgia cause? 
People with fibromyalgia have chronic bodily pain and often have increased fatigue (feeling tired), stiffness, depression, and problems sleeping. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies until June 2016, and found 13 studies (839 individuals). Most studies (61.5%) included only female participants. Average age of participants was 41 years (minimum 32 to maximum 56 years). According to the inclusion/exclusion criteria, most participants were not doing exercises before starting the study. 
Aerobic interventions were compared with controls (wait list, treatment as usual, daily activities as usual) over six to 24 weeks. On average, exercise sessions were provided two to three times per week for 35 minutes each session. Exercises involved walking, cycling, running, and doing low‐impact aerobics and aquacise. Participants exercised at different intensities, starting light and increasing as the study progressed. All programs were supervised. 
Key results at the end of treatment 
The findings of aerobic exercise compared with no exercise control were prioritised and are presented fully here. Moderate‐quality evidence revealed that aerobic exercise improved HRQL, and low‐quality evidence showed improvement in physical function and decreased pain, fatigue, and stiffness compared with control. Similar numbers of people dropped out of the aerobic interventions group and the comparison group. Minor adverse events were reported, but reporting was inconsistent in these studies. 
Four studies explored long‐term effects at 24 to 208 weeks after the intervention ended. They reported benefits for pain and physical function among exercisers and noted no other effects. 
Best estimates of what happened in people with fibromyalgia when they did aerobic exercise compared with when they received control interventions 
Each outcome below was measured on a scale from 0 to 100, on which lower scores were better. 
HRQL after 12 to 24 weeks: People who exercised were 7% better (or 7 points, ranging from 3 to 13 points) and rated their HRQL as 48 points versus 56 points in the control group. 
Pain after 6 to 24 weeks: People who exercised were 11% better (or 11 points, ranging from 4 to 18 points) and rated their pain as 56 points versus 65 points in the control group. 
Fatigue after 14 to 24 weeks: Those who exercised were 6% better (or 6 points, ranging from 12 better to 0.3 worse) and rated their fatigue as 63 points versus 68 points in the control group. 
