Providing folic acid to reduce arsenic toxicity in arsenic‐exposed children and adults
What was studied in this review? 
Arsenic is a common environmental toxin that affects over 140 million people worldwide. Long‐term arsenic exposure, through the consumption of arsenic‐contaminated drinking water and food, increases the risk of neurotoxicity (damage to the brain or nervous system), skin lesions, birth defects, cancer, and impaired brain development in children. Folic acid may decrease arsenic toxicity by helping to remove arsenic from the body, thus lowering the amount of arsenic in the blood. This review assessed the effect of giving people folic acid through oral supplements, fortified foods, or both, on arsenic‐associated health outcomes and arsenic toxicity in adults and children. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this review was to determine whether giving folic acid to arsenic‐exposed children and adults reduced arsenic toxicity. 
Key messages 
Folic acid supplementation may reduce blood arsenic concentration, and make it easier to get rid of arsenic through the urine, in arsenic‐exposed adults compared to placebo (i.e. dummy pill). This suggests that taking folic acid supplements may reduce arsenic toxicity in arsenic‐exposed adults. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found two randomised controlled trials (RCT), with 822 adults, conducted in Bangladesh, which assessed the effect of taking folic acid supplements on the concentration of arsenic and homocysteine (a marker of inflammation and folate deficiency) in plasma, blood, and urine. Both RCTs were funded by government programs. One of the RCTs also assessed the effects of folic acid supplements plus another nutrient supplement called creatine. Neither of the studies reported data on cancer, all‐cause mortality, neurocognitive function, or congenital anomalies. 
The results from these studies suggest that taking folic acid supplements, alone or in combination with other nutrients, might reduce blood arsenic and plasma homocysteine concentrations, and potentially improve urinary arsenic methylation profiles (a measure of arsenic toxicity) in adults who had been exposed to arsenic‐contaminated drinking water, compared to placebo. 
We judged both RCTs at low risk of bias. We judged the certainty of evidence as moderate for all outcomes included in the comparison of Folic acid supplements alone versus placebo, and low for all outcomes included in the comparison of Folic acid supplements plus other nutrient supplements versus nutrient supplements alone. We downgraded the certainty of the evidence due to the small number of studies. This means that the results may change with further research. 
The review highlights the need for more research evaluating the effects of folic acid on arsenic‐related health outcomes and arsenic toxicity in adults and children. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to September 2020.
