The effectiveness of chloral hydrate as a sedative agent for children undergoing neurodiagnostic procedures 
Review question 
In children undergoing non‐invasive neurodiagnostic procedures, is chloral hydrate more effective at producing adequate sedation (slowing of brain activity) and safer than other ways of achieving sedation? 
Background 
Neurodiagnostic procedures are non‐invasive neurological investigations important for children with suspected neurological disorders. These investigations include brain imaging and brain electrical activity testing. For these tests to be successfully performed, the child needs to remain still for at least 30 to 45 minutes during the investigation period. Sedative agents are required for children, who are usually unable to remain still for this period of time. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to May 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included 16 studies involving a total of 2922 children (age up to 18 years old) in the review. All of the included studies were performed in hospitals that provided neurodiagnostic services. Most studies assessed the following three main outcomes: proportion of children who were unsuccessfully sedated for the neurodiagnostic procedure; length of time taken for adequate sedation; and side effects associated with the sedative agent. The quality of the evidence was mixed, ranging from very low to high. The main reason for lowering the quality of the evidence was that those closely involved in the trials, such as the doctors giving the sedation or the parents of the child, were not masked to the sedative agent used in the child, which could have affected their recording or interpretation of the results. 
Key results 
We summarised the evidence of effectiveness and harms of oral chloral hydrate sedation when compared with other sedative agents. Our review suggests that oral chloral hydrate is just as effective a sedative agent with similar sedation failure rate when compared with oral dexmedetomidine, oral hydroxyzine hydrochloride, oral midazolam, and oral clonidine; and probably a more effective sedative agent with a lower sedation failure rate when compared with oral promethazine. Whilst most of the included studies showed that chloral hydrate was safe with no increase in side effects when compared to other sedative agents, one study reported an increased risk of side effects with oral chloral hydrate when compared with intranasal dexmedetomidine. 
