Which route of short‐term bladder drainage is best for adults in hospital?
The evidence for this question is up‐to‐date as of 26 February 2015 
Number of trials: 42 
Number of participants: 4577 
Key messages: 
This Cochrane review found that there was not enough evidence to determine whether one route of bladder drainage was more likely to reduce urinary tract infection than another. The evidence suggests that participants with suprapubic catheters were less likely to have catheter‐associated pain compared with those with indwelling urethral catheters. The quality of evidence in this review was low, and many of the trials did not report important outcomes such as catheter‐associated quality of life and ease of use. The included trials reported few adverse effects, but it is not clear if this is because the adverse effects did not occur or were simply not reported. Because of the limited evidence, we need more high‐quality trials. It is important that these trials report symptomatic urinary tract infection, pain from using catheters, quality of life, adverse effects and ease of use. 
Background: what routes of short‐term bladder drainage are there? 
Urinary catheters are tubes that drain urine from the bladder. They are often used in people who are unable to go to the toilet easily during their hospital stay. About one in four hospital patients requires short‐term bladder drainage using a urinary catheter. Catheters can be used in different ways. The main routes of urinary catheterisation are: 
1. Urethral : a drainage tube is inserted into the bladder via the urethra, and is either left in place (indwelling catheter), or removed after the bladder is emptied (intermittent catheter). 
2. Suprapubic catheterisation: a drainage tube is inserted into the bladder through a small cut in the abdominal wall. 
A common complication of short‐term bladder drainage is urinary tract infection. Infections have many serious implications for patients and healthcare providers. Insertion of a suprapubic catheter may also be associated with more risks than urethral routes, such as bleeding or damage to the bowel. 
Key results 
The Cochrane review looked at studies which made one of three comparisons:
1. Indwelling versus suprapubic catheterisation 2. Indwelling versus intermittent catheterisation 3. Suprapubic versus intermittent catheterisation 
1. Twenty‐five trials (2622 participants) compared indwelling urethral and suprapubic catheterisation. There was not enough evidence from five trials to determine whether people had a lower risk of symptomatic urinary tract infection with indwelling urethral or suprapubic catheterisation. There was low quality evidence from four trials that people with indwelling urethral catheters were at greater risk of catheter‐associated pain compared with participants with suprapubic catheters. None of the twenty‐five trials reported ease of use, quality of life or economic outcomes. 
2. Fourteen trials (1596 participants) compared indwelling and intermittent urethral catheterisation. There was very low quality evidence from two trials reporting on urinary tract infection, and the review could not determine which route of bladder drainage had a lower risk. None of the fourteen trials reported pain, ease of use, quality of life or economic outcomes. 
