Oral vitamin B12 compared with intramuscular vitamin B12 for vitamin B12 deficiency
Review question 
Does oral vitamin B12 have similar effects as intramuscular injections of vitamin B12 for people with vitamin B12 deficiency? 
Background 
Vitamin B12 (cobalamin) is necessary for basic body functions, such as the growth and development of red blood cells and the nervous system. Vitamin B12 deficiency (a lack of vitamin B12) is very common. Many factors contribute to vitamin B12 deficiency, such as age, blood disease, vegetarian diet, indigestion, use of drugs, as well as poor nutrition. Doctors are more likely to give vitamin B12 using injections into the muscle (intramuscular injection) because they may be unaware of the option to use oral vitamin B12 or uncertain about how well it works. 
Study characteristics 
We found three randomised controlled studies (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups). The studies randomised 153 participants (74 participants to oral vitamin B12 and 79 participants to intramuscular vitamin B12). Treatment duration and follow‐up ranged between three and four months. The mean age of participants ranged from 39 to 72 years. 
Key results 
Two studies used 1000 μg/day oral vitamin B12 and showed no relevant difference to intramuscularly applied vitamin B12 with regard to vitamin B12 blood levels. One trial used 2000 μg/day vitamin B12 and showed higher vitamin B12 blood levels in favour of oral vitamin B12. Two studies reported side effects. One study stated that no treatment‐related side effects were seen in both the oral and intramuscular vitamin B12 groups. One study reported that 2 of 30 participants in the oral vitamin B12 group left the trial early due to side effects. Orally taken vitamin B12 showed lower treatment‐associated costs than intramuscular vitamin B12 in one trial. No study reported on clinical signs and symptoms of vitamin B12 deficiency (e.g. fatigue, depression, neurological complications), health‐related quality of life, or acceptability of the treatment scheme. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was low or very low, mainly due to the small number of included studies and the low numbers of participants in these studies. 
