Methods for securing endotracheal tubes in newborn infants
Review question 
Over the years, there have been multiple different ways an endotracheal tube has been secured in the ventilated newborn. We reviewed the evidence for the most effective method to secure an endotracheal tube in infants requiring mechanical ventilation. We found five randomised controlled trials which compared different methods of securing an endotracheal tube and studied their effects on outcomes such as accidental extubation. 
Background 
As neonatal care and the survival rates of premature infants continues to improve, there will be an ongoing need for newborns to be intubated and ventilated. These are often the sickest babies in the nursery, so optimising practice in this area could impact outcomes. The aim of effectively securing an endotracheal tube is to provide continuous optimal ventilation whilst minimising the risk of developing complications from an unstable tube. 
Search date 
The evidence was current to June 2013.
Study characteristics 
The five studies included in this review enrolled patients from a neonatal intensive care nursery who were intubated and ventilated. Trial durations ranged from the time required to enrol the small recruitment targets up to 10 months. Numbers of participants in the studies ranged from 30 to 203 ventilated infants. 
Key results 
Accidental extubation was the outcome measured in all five studies and was the outcome of interest in this review. Other secondary outcomes included skin trauma, tube slippage and rates of preventive re‐taping. All five studies compared methods of securing the endotracheal tube that were too dissimilar for the data to be collated or included in a meta‐analysis. 
Quality of the evidence 
The overall quality of the evidence was low. Limitations in design and implementation were evident to different degrees in all five studies. None of the studies indicated whether allocation was concealed. Due to the nature of the intervention the studies were unable to be blinded, however none of the studies indicated whether data were collected in a blinded fashion therefore conferring risks of bias. One study had a large group of neonates that were excluded from the analysis and publication bias. Conclusive results from well designed and conducted trials could help to optimise current practice. 
