Drugs to treat acute respiratory distress syndrome in adults
We set out to determine, from randomized controlled trials, which drugs improve health outcomes in adults with acute respiratory distress syndrome (ARDS). 
Background 
ARDS is a life‐threatening condition caused by injury to the lungs, for example from infections such as pneumonia or sepsis, or from trauma. People with ARDS are cared for in an intensive care unit, and need support with breathing from mechanical ventilation. Many people who survive ARDS suffer from muscle weakness, fatigue, reduced quality of life after hospital discharge, and may not be fit for work 12 months later. Despite improvements in techniques to manage ARDS, death rates are still very high. Drugs may help to repair damage to the lung injury, or limit the body's response to the injury (for example, by reducing any excess fluid that may collect around the injured lungs). 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to 10 December 2018. We included 48 studies, of 20 different drug types, involving 6299 people who had ARDS. Three studies are awaiting classification (because we did not have enough details to assess them), and 18 studies are still ongoing. We found differences between included studies, such as the severity of ARDS, or potential differences in clinical management and doses. We excluded studies published before 2000, in order to only include up‐to‐date clinical management of people with ARDS (for example, in the pressure applied during mechanical ventilation). However, we found that many studies did not report these management strategies. 
For the main comparisons in this review, we included five types of drugs: corticosteroids, surfactants, N‐acetylcysteine, statins, and beta‐agonists. These were compared to placebo or to standard care. 
Key results 
Although corticosteroids may reduce the number of people who die within the first three months, and beta‐agonists probably slightly increase these early deaths, we found both an increase and a reduction in deaths in our analyses for these drugs. We found no evidence that surfactants, N‐acetylcysteine, or statins made a difference to the number of people who died within three months. Only two studies (one that assessed steroids, and one surfactants) reported deaths later than three months, but evidence for this was uncertain. 
We found that statins or steroids may make little or no difference to the duration of mechanical ventilation, but we were uncertain about the evidence for steroids. Similarly, we were uncertain whether surfactants reduced the use of mechanical ventilation. We found that steroids may improve the number of days that people do not need mechanical ventilation (ventilator‐free days up to day 28), but that beta‐agonists may not improve ventilator‐free days (although we were uncertain about the evidence for beta‐agonists). We found that statins probably make little or no difference to the number of ventilator‐free days; this was also the case for surfactants (although, again, we were uncertain about the evidence for surfactants). 
