Statins for children with inherited high blood cholesterol
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for the effectiveness and safety of statins in children with inherited high blood cholesterol. 
Background 
Familial hypercholesterolemia is an inherited disease in which the blood cholesterol level is high. Vascular disease, i.e. furring up of the blood vessels, often occurs at an earlier age than usual, especially amongst men. Thus lifelong therapies, started in childhood, to reduce blood cholesterol are needed. In children with familial hypercholesterolemia, diet has been the main treatment option. Medications, such as cholestyramine and colestipol, have been used effectively, but due to their unpleasant taste they are poorly tolerated and treatment plans are not followed. The advent of statin therapy for children has improved treatment and this review updates the previous published version. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 04 November 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review included 9 studies with 1177 people with heterozygous familial hypercholesterolemia aged between 4 and 18 years of age. Studies compared different statin treatments with a substance which contains no medication (termed placebo) and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. The studies lasted from 12 weeks to 104 weeks. 
Key results 
In general, the intervention and follow‐up time was short (median 24 weeks; range from six weeks to two years). Statins probably reduced the mean low‐density lipoprotein cholesterol concentration at all time points (high‐quality evidence). The levels of the liver enzymes, serum aspartate and alanine aminotransferase, and the muscle enzyme, creatinine kinase, did not differ between treated and placebo groups at any time point (low‐quality evidence). The risks of myopathy (disease of muscle tissue) and side‐effects were very low and similar in both groups (low‐quality evidence). Two of the statins, simvastatin and pravastatin may have a positive effect on two of the major blood vessels typically affected by raised cholesterol levels (low‐quality evidence). 
Quality of the evidence 
Information regarding blinding (performance bias and detection bias), was available for all nine studies; each was described as double blind, indicating that participants and those participating in treatment procedures were blinded to treatment. In two studies information on how the participants were allocated to treatment groups (selection bias) was clearly presented, but this information was not clearly stated in the remaining seven studies. There is a lack of information whether investigators knew which treatment group participants would be put into (selection bias) and or whether selective reporting (reporting bias) occurred, but it is very unlikely. In conclusion, it can be stated all the studies appeared to be well run and we do not think any of the above‐mentioned factors influenced the results in a negative way. Quality of evidence varied from high (change in serum low‐density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol) through moderate (adverse events) to low (change in blood vessel wall (carotid intima‐media) thickness, change in measures if growth and maturation, liver dysfunction, myopathy and change in blood wall (endothelial) function). 
