Interventions for heartburn in pregnancy
What is the issue? 
This review aims to evaluate the effectiveness of interventions for relieving heartburn in pregnancy. Interventions include advice on diet, lifestyle modification, medications and complementary therapies. 
Why is this important? 
Heartburn is a sensation of burning in the upper part of the digestive tract including the throat. It is one of the most common gut symptoms in pregnant women and it can occur anytime during pregnancy. It is caused by pregnancy hormones affecting the muscle that keeps food in the stomach, and letting acid in the stomach come back up the throat. The symptoms may be frequent, severe and distressing, but serious complications are rare. Many interventions have been suggested. Lifestyle modifications are suggested for treating mild symptoms. Women are often advised to eat smaller meals, chew gum, not to eat late at night, to elevate the head of the bed and avoid foods and medications that cause heartburn. Abstinence from alcohol and tobacco are encouraged to reduce reflux symptoms and to avoid fetal exposure to these harmful substances. For more troubling reflux symptoms, medications are sometimes used. The common drugs used for the treatment of heartburn in pregnancy include antacids, drugs that stimulate the muscles of the gastrointestinal tract to prevent acids from staying in the stomach too long. 
What evidence did we find? 
We found four small trials that provided data on 358 women. We estimated that the risk of bias was low for women enrolled in the study and the researchers as far as knowing if they were in the treatment group or the control (or placebo) group. It was unclear if there was a risk of bias for how the decisions were made to for women to be in the treatment or control/placebo groups, for those looking at the results and if all the results were reported. 
Two trials looked at medication compared with placebo or no treatment. One study examined the effect of a medication(sucralfate) in comparison to advice on dietary and lifestyle choice. One trial evaluated acupuncture versus no treatment. 
Women who received medication reported complete relief from heartburn more often than women receiving no treatment or placebo, or women who received advice on diet and lifestyle choices (moderate quality of evidence). We found no difference in partial relief of heartburn nor in side effects between the treatment groups (very low quality of evidence). We also found women who received acupuncture reported improved quality of life in terms of improved ability to sleep and eat, and no difference in the rate of side effects compared to women who received no acupuncture, 
