Taxane‐containing regimens for metastatic breast cancer
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of taxane‐containing chemotherapy regimens in women with metastatic breast cancer. This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2003. 
Background 
Treatment for women with metastatic breast cancer (that is, cancer that has spread beyond the breast) usually involves chemotherapy to try to shrink or slow the growth of the cancer. Chemotherapy can involve a single drug or a combination of drugs. Paclitaxel and docetaxel are chemotherapy drugs known as taxanes. Taxanes can inhibit cancer cells from dividing and reproducing, and their adverse effects can include nausea, vomiting, and hair loss, as well as allergic reactions, which can be reduced by premedication. We wanted to examine whether or not taxane‐containing chemotherapy improves survival and extends time to disease progression in women with metastatic breast cancer. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to February 2013. We included 28 studies that randomised 6871 women. Women were assigned to receive either a taxane‐containing chemotherapy regimen (single taxane or in combination with other chemotherapy drugs) or a non‐taxane chemotherapy regimen. There were variations in the taxane‐containing chemotherapy regimen and the non‐taxane treatments. Approximately half of the studies used paclitaxel and the other half used docetaxel, and in the majority of cases, taxanes were administered every three weeks. Of the 28 studies, 20 studies included women who received taxanes as their first treatment after their diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer, and 21 studies involved women who had not been previously treated with anthracyclines in the metastatic setting. From those studies reporting median follow‐up, this ranged from 9 months to 69 months. 
Key results 
This review showed that chemotherapy regimens including taxanes improved survival and decreased the progression of metastatic breast cancer. If the analyses were restricted to those studies where women received taxanes as their first treatment after their diagnosis of metastatic breast cancer, the survival benefit persisted. Taxanes also appeared to cause tumours to shrink more than chemotherapy regimens without taxanes. However, there were differences in side effects. The risk of experiencing neurotoxicity (tingling of hands and feet) with taxanes increased compared to non‐taxane chemotherapy. Hair loss also seemed to be more likely with taxane than with non‐taxane‐containing regimens. However, less nausea/vomiting was observed with taxanes. There was no difference in the rates of leukopaenia (low white blood cells) or treatment‐related deaths between taxane and non‐taxane chemotherapy. Of the studies that reported quality of life measures, there did not appear to be any differences (overall or on subscales) in quality of life between the two groups. 
Quality of the evidence 
We considered 19 out of the 28 studies to be at low risk of bias overall. However, some studies failed to report details on concealing drug treatments and methods of outcome assessment for those outcomes more likely to be at risk of bias (for example tumour response rate). The degree of variability seen across the included studies probably reflects the varying efficacy of the non‐taxane chemotherapy regimens used in these studies and indicates that taxane‐containing chemotherapies are more effective than some, but not all, non‐taxane‐containing regimens. 
