Increased salt in solution to maintain fluid during surgery
Review question 
Are solutions containing more salt than is normally used safe during surgery?
Background 
People usually require fluids during surgery. Sometimes large volumes of fluid are given in order to maintain adequate blood volume, but these volumes may leave people with too much fluid. The fluids normally used during surgery have a salt balance similar to that found in blood, and are called isotonic. Hypertonic salt solutions (HS) have a higher sodium concentration than isotonic salt solutions (IS). HS might benefit people undergoing surgery by reducing the total volume of fluid required. 
Search date 
The evidence is up to date to April 8th, 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included 18 trials that compared HS to IS in people undergoing surgery. The trials included 1087 participants. Five hundred and forty‐five (545) participants received HS and 542 received IS during their operations. The participants were randomly assigned to their groups. The studies took place in 11 countries. Study participants were over the age of 18. All studies excluded people with serious health risks from participating. All studies monitored fluid levels during the operation and up to three days after. 
Key results 
There were seven deaths in total, three (less than 1%) from the IS group and four (less than 1%) from the HS group. The risk of death was very low in these studies. The studies did not report the occurrence of serious adverse events. 
Thirteen studies reported the amount of fluid given. The IS group received a mean of 2.4 L and the HS group received 0.91 L less (1.49 L). The highest amount of sodium in the blood over the course of the study was reported by 16 studies. The IS group had a median of 139 meq/L and the HS group was 7.73 meq/L higher. The normal acceptable range is 136 to 146 meq/L. 
Quality of the evidence 
For deaths and adverse events the trials lacked sufficient size and duration to adequately assess differences. We assessed the quality of evidence for deaths to be very low, and future studies are likely to change the result reported here. 
The reporting of the highest amount of sodium is of moderate quality. The measuring of blood sodium during an operation is a common measurement that is unlikely to be misrepresented. 
