Use of cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS) for monitoring brain oxygenation during or after surgery in adults and children 
The review question 
We assessed the effects of monitoring the brain with cerebral near‐infrared spectroscopy (NIRS), and treatments based on it, during and after surgery in adults and children. We aimed to determine whether NIRS detects reduced oxygen supply to the brain, which would allow the use of interventions to improve nervous system, mental process (cognition) and other outcomes that can have an impact on patients' hospital length of stay and costs. 
Background 
The human brain needs a lot of oxygen (has a high oxygen consumption) and is very sensitive to reduced oxygen supply. Successful treatment for low levels of oxygen in the brain during or after surgery relies on early diagnosis of a lack of oxygen. Cerebral NIRS is increasingly used for the early detection of lack of oxygen to the brain. It uses near‐infrared light (700 to 1000 nanometres) to penetrate through the superficial layers of the head, including the scalp and the skull, to show the cerebral tissue. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to December 2016. We updated our search in November 2017, but these results have not yet been incorporated in the review. We included 15 completed randomized controlled trials involving 1822 participants. There are 8 ongoing studies and 12 waiting further assessment. 
None of the completed studies included infants or children. In four studies participants were undergoing abdominal or orthopaedic surgery, one study included participants undergoing a procedure to restore proper blood flow to the brain, and in the remaining 10 studies participants were undergoing large blood vessel or heart surgery with or without heart bypass. The studies all used cerebral NIRS in the operating room, with only two also using cerebral NIRS in the intensive care unit. The control groups were monitored using methods such as heart rate and mean arterial blood pressure, electroencephalogram, transcranial doppler, bispectral index, oxygen saturation in the jugular vein, evoked potentials or cerebral tissue oxygen partial pressure. Overall, the different studies varied in their approach to the review question. 
