Central venous access sites to prevent venous blood clots, blood vessel narrowing, and infection 
Central venous access (CVA) involves a large bore catheter inserted in a vein in the neck, upper chest or groin (femoral) area to give drugs that cannot be given by mouth or via a conventional needle (cannula or tube in the arm). CVA is widely used. However, its thrombotic (causing a blood clot) and infectious complications can be life‐threatening and involve high‐cost therapy. Research has revealed that the risk of catheter‐related complications varies according to the sites of central venous catheter (CVC) insertion. It would be helpful to find the preferred site of insertion to minimize the risk of catheter‐related complications. This review examined whether there was any evidence to show that CVA through any one site (neck, upper chest, or femoral area) is better than the other. Four studies were identified comparing data from 1513 participants. For the purpose of this review, three comparisons were evaluated: 1) internal jugular versus subclavian CVA routes; 2) femoral versus subclavian CVA routes; and 3) femoral versus internal jugular CVA routes. We compared short‐term and long‐term catheter insertion. We defined long‐term as for more than one month and short‐term as for less than one month, according to the Food and Drug Administration (FDA). No randomized controlled trial was found comparing all three CVA routes and reporting the complications of venous stenosis. 
Subclavian and internal jugular CVA routes had similar risks for catheter‐related complications in long‐term catheter insertion in cancer patients. Subclavian CVA was preferable to femoral CVA in short‐term catheter insertion because of lower risks of catheter colonization and thrombotic complications. In catheter insertion for short‐term haemodialysis, femoral and internal jugular CVA routes had similar risks for catheter‐related complications except internal jugular CVA routes were associated with higher risks of mechanical complications. Further trials comparing subclavian, femoral and jugular CVA routes are needed. 
