Can third‐party inspections of whether healthcare organisations are fulfilling mandatory standards improve healthcare outcomes? 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if external inspection of compliance with standards can improve improving healthcare organisation behaviour, healthcare professional behaviour and patient outcomes. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found two studies. 
Key messages 
It is unclear whether third‐party inspection programmes designed to measure a healthcare organisation's compliance with standards of care can improve professional practice and healthcare outcomes. There was little information on patient outcomes. This review highlights the lack of high‐quality evaluations. 
What was studied in the review? 
Third‐party (external) inspection programmes are used within healthcare settings (e.g. clinics and hospitals) to increase the compliance with evidence‐based standards of care, but very little is known of their benefits in terms of organisational performance (e.g.,waiting list times, inpatient length of stay),the performance of healthcare professionals (e.g. referral rate, prescribing rate) and patient outcomes (e.g. mortality, and condition specific outcomes like blood glucose for diabetic patients, or weight loss for overweight or obese patients), or their cost‐effectiveness. Accreditation programmes are one example of an external review system. Accreditation is a process of review that healthcare organisations participate in to demonstrate the ability to meet predetermined criteria and standards of accreditation established by a professional accrediting agency. Infection control inspection programmes are also examples. Designed to reduce infection, standards based on evidence and best practice, are used to improve care quality and safety to decrease healthcare‐acquired infection rates (also called a hospital acquired infection or nosocomial infection, is an infection that is acquired at a hospital or another healthcare setting). If the standards are not adhered to, the external inspection body can take actions to reinforce them. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors searched the literature for studies evaluating the effects of external inspection of compliance with standards and found two relevant studies: one study involving 20 hospitals in the Republic of South Africa and one study providing time series data (a sequence of outcome measurements taken at successive equally spaced points in time) involving all acute hospital trusts in England (a trust is a National Health Service hospital which has opted to withdraw from local authority control and be managed by a trust instead). The comparison was no inspection. 
One study reported improved compliance scores with hospital accreditation standards. However, it is uncertain whether external inspection leads to improved compliance with standards because the certainty of the evidence was very low. Only one of the nine intervention hospitals achieved accreditation status during the study period. 
