Adding iodine to foods, other than salt, to prevent diseases caused by inadequate iodine intake 
Background and review question 
Many people around the world do not consume enough iodine. This is a problem because iodine is important for normal childhood growth and brain development, and for ensuring a healthy adult population. Inadequate intake of iodine can lead to health problems, such as intellectual disability and goitre (enlargement of the thyroid gland). Currently, the main strategy to increase the amount of iodine consumed in populations recommended by the World Health Organization is adding iodine to salt. However, in some areas where salt is not the major condiment, adding iodine to other foods has also been explored. The aim of our study was to examine the effect of adding iodine to foods, beverages, condiments, or seasonings, other than salt, on iodine nutrition status and health‐related outcomes in all populations. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for articles from different sources including published research papers, unpublished reports, and through direct communication with experts and organisations working to address iodine and micronutrient deficiency. We last searched the databases in January 2018. 
Eleven studies, which captured data on 4317 participants (3636 children, 648 women of reproductive age, and 33 infants), met our inclusion criteria. The type of foods used as vehicle to deliver iodine differed between the studies, and included biscuits, milk, fish sauce, drinking water, yoghourt, fruit beverage, seasoning powder, and infant formula milk. The amount of iodine provided to participants ranged from 35 µg/day to 220 µg/day, and study duration ranged from 11 days to 48 weeks. Of the 11 studies included, five examined the effect of adding iodine alone to foods compared to either no intervention or the same foods without iodine; while six evaluated the effect of adding iodine plus other micronutrients to foods compared to the same foods without iodine, but with different levels of other micronutrients. 
