Can shared decision‐making between the patient and the healthcare professional help people with asthma? 
Background to the question 
Asthma is a long‐term disease that is common in adults and children. People with asthma often wheeze, cough, and have difficulty breathing. Shared decision‐making means fully involving individuals with asthma in decisions about their care. It usually involves the patient and his or her doctor or nurse, and key features include sharing information to help individuals with asthma make the best decisions for themselves. By including individuals with asthma in the decision‐making process, it is hoped that their asthma will be better controlled and will cause them fewer problems. 
Review question 
We wanted to review the evidence on shared decision‐making for people with asthma compared with standard asthma care, or a different way of making healthcare decisions. We wanted to know if shared decision‐making has an effect on quality of life, asthma attacks, patient satisfaction with care, asthma control, sticking to medication plans, and unwanted effects. 
Study characteristics 
We reviewed the evidence up to November 2016. We found four studies, including 1342 people, that attempted to answer this question. All participants had asthma; participants in three studies were children and those in one study were adults. Three studies took place in the United States and one in the Netherlands; studies lasted from six months to two years. Different studies used different methods of shared decision‐making, including face‐to‐face discussions, telephone calls, and online messages. 
Key results 
Because these studies were conducted in different ways, we were unable to combine their findings. We found evidence from individual studies indicating that shared decision‐making may improve quality of life and asthma control and may reduce healthcare visits for asthma. Shared decision‐making may also help people to take their asthma inhaler(s) more regularly owing to better understanding of why they need to do that. Going through this process may make people feel more satisfied with their care, as they may feel empowered about making choices. However, all of these findings were reported by different studies, and some studies showed benefit of shared decision‐making, while others did not. It is important to mention that none of these studies looked into whether shared decision‐making causes unwanted side effects. All four studies measured how well the shared decision‐making intervention had been delivered or received but did this in different ways. 
Quality of the evidence 
We were not very confident in the quality of the evidence presented in this review. We were concerned about the small number of studies and about differences in the way included studies were designed. Also, participants knew which group they were in (i.e. shared decision‐making or standard care), and this may have affected how they answered questions about their asthma during the trial. 
Take‐home message 
Some evidence suggests that shared decision‐making might help people with asthma, but we are not sure whether it is helpful. In the future, larger studies that include adolescents while looking out for side effects, harms, and benefits should prove useful in answering this question. 
