Training interventions for improving telephone consultation skills in clinicians
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out whether some training interventions are more effective than others for improving clinicians' telephone communication skills and patient outcomes. 
Key messages 
One very small study reported no difference between a training intervention and no intervention on paediatric residents' telephone skills, but the certainty of the evidence was very low, so it is uncertain if this intervention makes any difference in clinicians' telephone communication skills. 
We did not find any study assessing the effect of training intervention for improving clinicians telephone communication skills on patient outcomes. 
There is no evidence to inform clinician training in telephone communication skills, so currently it has to be guided by studies and models based on face‐to‐face communication that do not consider the differences between these two communicative dimensions. 
What was studied in this review? 
Since its invention, the telephone has been increasingly used by clinicians and patients to manage health problems. Nowadays, up to a quarter of all clinical consultations happen by phone. What we know from previous research is that clinicians' telephone skills are of low quality, and clinicians receive poor specific training in their education. These important and delicate professional skills are left to individual clinicians' own intuition and judgement to cultivate and improve. Overall research in telephone medicine clearly shows that telephone consultations can have an important role in the delivery of healthcare with quantitative impact on clinicians' workload, hospital care, patient outcomes and job satisfaction levels. 
We searched for studies where doctors, nurses and other healthcare professionals underwent educational interventions for developing and improving telephone consultation skills with patients. We included studies from all settings and excluded studies dealing just with communication between clinicians. 
