Direct comparison of two antipsychotics (chlorpromazine versus clotiapine) for treating schizophrenia 
Review question 
The aim of this review was to find good quality evidence comparing the efficacy of chlorpromazine versus clotiapine for schizophrenia. 
Background 
Chlorpromazine is one of the first antipsychotics to successfully alleviate the symptoms of psychosis. It was introduced in the 1950s and is still one of the most commonly used antipsychotics. However, chlorpromazine can cause serious side effects, particularly unpleasant movement disorders, causing many people with schizophrenia to stop taking chlorpromazine. During the past 70 years newer medications have been developed and most clinicians now have a wide choice of drugs for managing schizophrenia, however, none cure, and all cause some sort of side effect. The choice of treatment is still challenging. Clotiapine is a newer antipsychotic drug, found to be effective for treating the symptoms of schizophrenia and also known to be effective for treating people with schizophrenia who are resistant to other medications, however, like chlorpromazine it can cause serious movement disorders. 
Searching for evidence 
Cochrane Schizophrenia's Information Specialist ran an electronic search in January 2016, searching their specialised register for trials that randomised people with schizophrenia to receive either chlorpromazine or clotiapine. The search identified six reports. We inspected these reports and found four trials, published between 1974 and 2003, randomising 276 participants that could be included in the review. 
Main results 
The four included trials were poorly conducted and did not report data for clinically important change in global or mental state, or cost of care. Improvement in overall mental state was reported and participants receiving clotiapine had better improvement scores than those receiving chlorpromazine. However the trials also reported data for improvement in the negative symptoms, no difference between the two treatments was found. Clotiapine did not cause more movement disorders than chlorpromazine, and similar numbers of participants left the trials early. 
