Interventions for drooling in children with cerebral palsy
Many children with CP have difficulty controlling saliva. Drooling varies in severity and can be distressing for the children, families and caregivers. Excessive drooling can cause constant damp soiled clothing, unpleasant odour, irritated, chapped or sore skin around the mouth and chin, skin and mouth infections, dehydration, difficulties chewing, interference with speech, damage to books, communication aids, computer and audio equipment. There is also risk of social rejection and social isolation for these children. 
Many interventions are used to reduce or eliminate drooling. These include surgery, medications, botulinum toxin (BoNT‐A and BoNT‐B)), physical therapies, therapies to improve sensory function, behavioural therapies to assist the child in managing his/her own drooling, appliances placed in the mouth, and acupuncture. 
There is no clear consensus on which interventions are safe and effective in managing drooling in children with CP. This makes it hard to decide which intervention will be safest and most effective. 
Only RCTs and CCTs were included in this review. Trials were identified by electronic searches of databases, searches of clinical trials registers, peer reviewed journals, published conference proceedings and reference lists of relevant articles. 
Six trials were found. Four examined the safety and efficacy of BoNT‐A and two examined benztropine and glycopyrrolate. No trials were found on other interventions. The quality of trials was variable. The trials all differed in the children recruited, the product used, how the product was delivered and how its effectiveness was measured. All trials reported a positive reduction in drooling and all showed some statistically significant change for treatment groups up to 1 month post intervention. Few studies examined client and/or carer satisfaction with the intervention. Some looked at side effects of the intervention but no study examined the effect of interventions on the child's quality of life or psychological well being. 
There is insufficient evidence to support the use of one intervention over another. As trials on just two kinds of interventions were retrieved, and given the variation and quality of these studies, it is not possible to conclude that one intervention is more effective than another. The lack of trials on other interventions does not suggest that these interventions are ineffective. 
