Transient elastography for measurement of liver fibrosis and cirrhosis in people with alcoholic liver disease 
Background 
Liver fibrosis is a change in the microscopic structure of the liver because of liver inflammation. After many years of excessive alcohol consumption, liver fibrosis progresses to cirrhosis. Abstaining from alcohol may stop the fibrosis from further progression into significant or severe fibrosis and cirrhosis. The latter lead to complications of underlying diseases, including cancer. 
Measurement of the amount of fibrosis is called staging. There are five stages (F0: no scarring (no fibrosis); F1: minimal scarring; F2: scarring has occurred and extends outside the liver area (significant fibrosis); F3: fibrosis spreading and forming bridges with other fibrotic liver areas (severe fibrosis); F4: cirrhosis or advanced scarring). Cut‐off values may distinguish between the different stages of fibrosis, but in people with alcoholic liver disease, the best cut‐off values have not been determined yet. 
Rationale 
Liver biopsy is where a sample of tissue is taken from the liver using a small needle. It is the standard method of detecting and measuring fibrosis. 
Transient elastography measures stiffening of the liver caused by progressive scarring, but it has not been validated in people with alcoholic liver disease. 
Aims 
To find out how well transient elastography may determine the presence or absence of fibrosis and if it can stage fibrosis in people with alcoholic liver disease when compared with liver biopsy. 
Methods 
Using Cochrane methods and searching the literature (August 2014), the review authors obtained results from 14 studies (834 participants), out of which only seven included people with only alcoholic liver disease. Participants underwent both transient elastography (the index test) and liver biopsy (the standard test). 
Findings and conclusions 
The number of studies and participants was small and the participants had different severity of liver fibrosis. Only four studies were judged good quality. 
Transient elastography fibrosis stage F2 or worse (significant fibrosis) 
There were seven studies with 338 participants: 81% of people had significant fibrosis. Out of 1000 people, 810 will have significant fibrosis. Of these 810 people, 49 people would be missed even though they had significant fibrosis. A clinical follow‐up could provide physicians with knowledge for the next diagnostic step. The remaining 190 people would not have significant fibrosis; 21 people would have unnecessary worries about their liver fibrosis stage. 
Transient elastography fibrosis stage F3 or worse (severe fibrosis) 
There were eight studies with 564 participants: 61% of people had severe fibrosis. Out of 1000 people, 610 would have severe fibrosis. Of these 610 people, 49 people would be missed even though they had severe fibrosis. A clinical follow‐up could provide physicians with knowledge for the next diagnostic step. The remaining 390 people would not have severe fibrosis; 117 people would have unnecessary worries about their liver fibrosis stage. 
Transient elastography fibrosis stage F4 (cirrhosis) 
There were seven studies with 330 participants: 51% of people had cirrhosis. Out of 1000 people, 510 will have cirrhosis. Of these 510 people, 26 people would be missed even though they had cirrhosis. A clinical follow‐up could provide physicians with knowledge for the next diagnostic step. The remaining 490 people would not have cirrhosis; 143 people would have unnecessary worries about their liver fibrosis stage. 
Transient elastography may be used as a diagnostic tool to rule out liver cirrhosis and may also help in ruling out severe fibrosis in people with alcoholic liver disease. Liver biopsy investigation still remains an option if the certainty to rule in or rule out the stage of hepatic fibrosis or cirrhosis remains insufficient after a clinical follow‐up or any other non‐invasive test considered useful by the clinician. 
The best cut‐off values for differentiating between the five liver fibrosis stages could still not be established. 
Future studies should include only people with alcoholic liver disease. Hepatic fibrosis should be diagnosed with transient elastography followed by liver biopsy and the transient elastography cut‐off values of liver stiffness for the different stages of liver fibrosis should be decided before the test occurs. The time interval between the two tests should not exceed three months, an interval that is mainly valid for people without cirrhosis. Assessors of results should be unaware of the treatment given. 
