Degarelix for newly diagnosed advanced prostate cancer
Review question 
How does degarelix, a newer drug that treats prostate cancer by lowering male sex hormone levels, compare to existing medications for newly diagnosed advanced prostate cancer?  
Background 
There is no cure if prostate cancer has spread outside of the prostate gland to lymph nodes or to the bones. In such a situation, hormonal therapy that lowers levels of the male sex hormone testosterone can slow down cancer growth. Testosterone levels are regulated by complicated mechanisms that involve a hormone known as gonadotropin‐releasing hormone (GnRH), which is present in men at different levels at different times of the day. It is understood that giving men with prostate cancer high levels of medications that increase GnRH levels first raises testosterone levels, and then drops them to very low levels. These medications are commonly used to treat men with prostate cancer that has spread outside the prostate. Degarelix is a newer drug known as a GnRH antagonist, which blocks receptors in the brain and thereby lowers testosterone levels immediately. 
Study characteristics 
We included randomized controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to one of two or more treatment groups using a random method) comparing degarelix and standard hormonal therapy in men with newly diagnosed advanced prostate cancer. The evidence is current to September 2020 for electronic databases, to October 2020 for trial registries, and to December 2020 for conference proceedings. 
Key results 
We found 11 studies that were eligible for inclusion in the review, but none of these studies evaluated the risk of dying from any cause or dying from prostate cancer. There may be no difference between degarelix and standard hormonal therapy in serious unwanted effects and quality of life. The effects of degarelix on cardiovascular issues such as the risk of a heart attack or stroke are uncertain; while one study suggested that the risk may be reduced with degarelix, it had major issues, in particular that it was conducted in men at high risk for such problems. We found that degarelix therapy likely results in an increase in the occurrence of pain at the injection site. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The certainty of evidence for the various outcomes ranged from moderate to very low. There is a need for additional, better designed studies to further understand the effects of degarelix for newly diagnosed advanced prostate cancer.  
