Intra‐peritoneal local anaesthetic administration in people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
Background 
Between 10% and 20% of the Western population are affected by gallstones. Annually, 1% to 4% of those will develop symptoms. Removal of the gallbladder (cholecystectomy) is the main treatment of patients who develop symptomatic gallstones. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy (keyhole surgery to remove of the gallbladder) is the preferred method of surgery. Laparoscopic cholecystectomy is considered less painful than open surgery. 
Previous systematic reviews have demonstrated that administration of local anaesthetic (drug that numbs part of the body) into the abdomen (tummy) is possibly effective and associated with low rates of serious adverse events. However, the evidence to support this is of very low quality. We carried out this review to update the evidence with recently published trials. 
Searching for studies and Study characteristics 
We searched medical literature databases to 19 January 2021. We searched reference lists of studies retrieved. We also searched other resources to identify unpublished or ongoing trials to 10 September 2021. 
We identified 85 completed trials, with 76 trials (4957 patients undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy) contributing data to at least one of the outcomes. The majority of participants were fit and healthy and undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy on a planned basis. Participants were randomly assigned to receiving local anaesthetic (or not) to ensure the groups being compared were as similar as possible. 
Funding 
Seven trials received funding for their research from external bodies, of these three trials were assessed to be at risk of conflicts of interest. A further 17 trials declared no funding. 
Key results 
There were no deaths noted in the eight trials that reported deaths. Thirteen trials reported on serious side effects (for example low heart rate or blood pressure) and did not demonstrate a difference in rates of side effects between those receiving local anaesthetic and those receiving the control. None of the trials reported health‐related quality of life. Twelve trials reported the length of hospital stay after surgery and demonstrated small difference in length of stay in the intraperitoneal group. Three trials reported on same day of surgery discharge and demonstrated no difference between local anaesthetic and control. Pain scores were lower in the group receiving intraperitoneal anaesthetic compared to those receiving controls at four to eight hours (57 trials; 4046 participants) and nine to 24 hours (52 trials; 3588 participants) as measured by a visual analogue score (a chart from 1cm to 10cm to indicate the level of pain). None of the trials reported return to activity or return to work. 
In addition, we found two trials that are still ongoing, and one trial that was completed but with no published results. The three trials are registered on the WHO trial register. 
Certainty of evidence 
The majority of the trials were at high risk of bias, this means that there was a chance that the wrong conclusions were reached because of the way the study was conducted. For the majority of outcomes a high degree of concern regarding the imprecision of our results contributed to a reduction in certainty in our conclusions. This means we are uncertain about where the value of true effect lies. Overall, the strength of the evidence was assessed to be of very low or low certainty, which means the benefits or harms of local anaesthetic for laparoscopic cholecystectomy could be greater or smaller. 
Conclusions 
Serious adverse events were rare (very low‐certainty evidence). We found moderate‐certainty evidence that intraperitoneal local anaesthetic probably results in a reduction in length of hospital stay. We did not find any clear evidence that intraperitoneal local anaesthetic instillation affects the proportion of patients that are discharged the same day of surgery. We found that intra‐peritoneal local anaesthetic administration reduces pain scores after laparoscopic cholecystectomy in a randomised trial setting, but this evidence was of low certainty. 
