Rooming‐in for new mother and infant versus separate care for increasing duration of breastfeeding 
What is the issue? 
Keeping mother and infant together (rooming‐in) or separating them after birth are both traditional practices seen in many cultures. During the early 20th century when hospitals became the centre for birthing in industrialised countries, the practice of separate care became established. Newborns were placed in a nursery separated from their mothers and brought to their mother only for breastfeeding. The practice of mother‐infant rooming‐in became less practised. Mother‐infant proximity during the early postpartum period might directly influence mother‐infant interaction, which might impact on the duration of breastfeeding. 
Why is this important? 
Separating infants from their mothers after birth may reduce the frequency of breastfeeding and hence the amount of breast milk a mother produces. Whereas, infants staying together with the mother throughout their hospital stay would have more frequent suckling of the breast and thus promote closeness and bonding. Separate care might allow the mother to rest and reduce stress, which also might improve milk production. Many hospitals have now started to keep the mother and baby in the same room, particularly since the advent of the WHO/UNICEF Baby Friendly Hospital Initiative in 1991. This systematic review aimed to establish from randomised controlled trials whether rooming‐in or separate care after birth resulted in a longer duration of exclusive breastfeeding once they had returned home. 
What evidence did we find? 
The latest search was done on 30th May 2016. No new studies were identified. Only one study is included in the review. 
One trial (involving 176 women) was analysed which provided information on the rate of exclusive breastfeeding on discharge from hospital. We found that there was low‐quality evidence that keeping mother and infant together in the same room after birth until they are discharged from the hospital increased the rate of exclusive breastfeeding at four days after birth. There was no difference between the groups in the proportion of infants receiving any breastfeeding at six months of age. 
What does this mean? 
We found little evidence to support or refute the practice of rooming‐in after birth. A randomised controlled trial is needed and it should report all important outcomes, including breastfeeding duration. 
