Codeine for the treatment of chronic cough in children
Review question 
We sought to answer the question of whether codeine (or medications produced from codeine) are safe and effective in the treatment of chronic cough (four weeks or longer) in children. 
Background 
Cough is a very commonly experienced symptom and is one of the most frequent reasons for visiting doctors and other health service providers. The presence of chronic cough (four weeks or longer) in children may indicate a serious underlying condition. Codeine (or medications produced from codeine) are ingredients in some non‐prescription, over‐the‐counter cough syrups as well as some prescribed by a doctor. These medications are used to reduce the effects of cough, although there are known risks associated with their use, including breathing difficulties, allergic reactions, and addiction. We aimed to look at the safety and benefit of these medications for the treatment of chronic cough in children. 
Search date 
We searched for any and all trials published and pending as of 8 June 2016.
Study characteristics 
We searched for any randomised controlled trial comparing either codeine (or medications produced from codeine) versus placebo in the treatment of chronic cough (4 weeks or longer) in children aged 18 years and younger. 
Key results 
The search identified 556 records. We reviewed and assessed all of these against predetermined inclusion/exclusion criteria. We found no eligible studies to include in this review. However, our search did find studies that investigated codeine (or medications produced from codeine) in the treatment of acute cough (two weeks or less) in children. Another Cochrane review specifically for children with acute cough evaluated these studies and found no evidence to support or oppose use of codeine (or medications produced from codeine). This overall lack of evidence is consistent with international chronic cough guidelines, which recommend treating the cause of the cough. Due to the known risks associated with use, in particular the increased risks for children, governing bodies in the USA, Europe, Canada, New Zealand, and Australia have stated these medications are now not recommended for children younger than 12 years of age and children between 12 to 18 years with respiratory conditions. Given the lack of supporting trials, the findings from trials of acute cough in children, and the known harmful side effects, we have concluded that codeine‐based medications cannot be recommended in children with chronic cough. 
Quality of evidence 
We found no studies and hence there is no quality of evidence.
