Duodenum‐preserving pancreatic resection versus pancreaticoduodenectomy for chronic pancreatitis 
Review question 
Should the duodenum (upper part of the small intestine) be removed while removing the pancreatic head in people with symptoms of chronic pancreatitis? 
Background 
The pancreas is an organ in the belly (abdomen) that secretes several digestive enzymes into the pancreatic ductal system (tubes that carry the pancreatic juice secreted by the pancreatic cells), which empties into the small bowel. It also comprises the Islets of Langerhans, which secrete several hormones including insulin (helps regulate blood sugar). Chronic pancreatitis is long‐standing and progressive inflammation of the pancreas resulting in destruction and replacement of pancreatic material (tissue) with fibrous tissue. This may lead to digestive enzyme deficiency (shortage) and insulin deficiency leading to diabetes (a lifelong condition that causes a person's blood sugar level to become too high). Alcohol is considered the main cause of acute pancreatitis. Chronic abdominal pain is the major symptom of chronic pancreatitis. The pain is usually in the upper abdomen and is described as deep, penetrating, and radiating to the back. Various theories exist about the reason for pain in chronic pancreatitis. One of the theories is that the disease process obstructs the pancreatic duct. So, surgery to remove the head of the pancreas (the part that is encircled by the duodenum) is recommended for some people with pain uncontrolled with medicines. Major complications of surgery include deaths (mortality) and re‐operations. However, it is unclear whether the duodenum should be excised (surgically removed) along with the head of the pancreas. Thus, we searched for existing studies on the topic. We included all randomised controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) whose results were reported to 22 June 2015. 
Study characteristics 
Five trials including 292 participants met the inclusion criteria for the review. After exclusion of 23 participants due to various reasons, 269 participants (with symptomatic chronic pancreatitis involving the head of pancreas and undergoing surgery) received duodenum‐preserving pancreatic head resection (DPPHR) (head of pancreas is removed without removing the duodenum) (135 participants) or pancreaticoduodenectomy (PD) (head of pancreas is removed along with the duodenum encircling it) (134 participants) in these trials. The trials did not report anaesthetic risk (likelihood of complications due to anaesthesia) of the participants. All the trials were single‐centre (occurred in only one clinical or medical centre). The participants were observed (followed up) for various periods of time ranging from one to 15 years. All the trials were at high risk of bias. 
Key results 
The differences in short‐term (up to 90 days after surgery) or long‐term (maximal follow‐up) mortality, medium‐term (three months to five years) or long‐term (more than five years) quality of life, percentage and number of people with side effects, percentage of people employed (maximal follow‐up), percentage of people who developed diabetes (maximum follow‐up), and percentage of people with pancreatic digestive enzyme deficiency (maximum follow‐up) were imprecise. The length of hospital stay appeared to be lower with DPPHR compared to PD and ranged between a reduction of one and five days in the trials. None of the trials reported short‐term quality of life (four weeks to three months), clinically significant pancreatic fistulas (abnormal drainage of pancreatic juice internally or externally), serious side effects, time to return to normal activity, time to return to work, and pain scores using a visual analogue scale (a measurement tool to compare subjective measures such as pain that cannot be directly measured; pain levels between 0 and 10 or 0 and 100). 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of evidence was low or very low. As a result, further studies are required on this topic. Such studies should report the severity of postoperative complications and their impact on patient recovery and should include all the trial participants in the results. In addition to the short‐term benefits and harms such as mortality, surgery‐related complications, quality of life, length of hospital stay, return to normal activity, and return to work, future trials should consider linkage of trial participants to health databases, social databases, and mortality registers to obtain the long‐term benefits and harms of the different treatments. 
