Can services delivered by pharmacists improve patient health?
What is the aim of this review? 
To test whether services provided by pharmacists improve patient health. We identified 116 studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
Some services provided by pharmacists can have positive effects on patient health, including improved management of blood pressure and physical function. The pharmacist services did not reduce hospital visits or admissions. Services delivered by pharmacists produced similar effects on patient health compared with services delivered by other healthcare professionals. 
What was studied in the review? 
Pharmacists deliver a wide range of services to patients. We need to know which pharmacist services are effective in helping patients to improve their health. This review included studies of pharmacist services for a wide range of conditions including high blood pressure and diabetes. The review measured the effect of these services on benefits (improved health outcomes) as well as harms (unplanned hospital admissions, adverse drug effects). 
What are the main results of the review? 
We found 116 relevant studies which involved 41,851 participants. Studies were conducted in 25 countries with the USA, UK, Canada and Australia contributing most studies. Many were conducted in community pharmacies (chemist shops) and hospital outpatient clinics. The studies compared services delivered by pharmacists with either usual care or with care delivered by other health professionals. The studies were of overall high quality, although some had problems because they did not include all the relevant information needed to assess quality. 
Of the 111 studies that compared pharmacist services with usual care, 47 studies reported the most important outcomes. Compared with usual care, pharmacist services may reduce the percentage of patients whose blood pressure is outside the target range. It is uncertain whether services delivered by pharmacists reduce the number of patients with glycated haemoglobin levels outside the target range, because the certainty of the evidence is very low. Pharmacist services may make little or no difference to hospital attendance or admissions or to adverse drug effects or to death rates. Pharmacist services may slightly improve physical functioning. 
We found no studies comparing services delivered by pharmacists with other healthcare professionals that evaluated the impact of the intervention on the six main outcome measures. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
We searched for studies that had been published up to March 2015. We ran top‐up searches in January 2018 and have added potentially eligible studies to 'Studies awaiting classification'. 
