Cannabinoids for the treatment of dementia
Background 
Dementia is the name for a range of conditions associated with an ongoing loss of thinking ability, memory, and other mental abilities. Medical treatments for dementia are limited and confer modest benefits. Many medications and non‐pharmacological interventions are used for behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia. However,  there are continuing problems with their lack of efficacy, safety, and feasibility. Accordingly, new, safe, and more effective treatments are needed for dementia and its associated symptoms.  
Our review question 
The cannabinoids are one potential agent under investigation for the treatment of dementia. The purpose of this systematic review was to investigate whether cannabinoids could help people with dementia, and whether they have any potential harmful effects. 
What we did 
We searched databases of scientific studies to find studies that had to randomly decide whether people would be treated with cannabinoids or a comparator. We combined the results of included studies to estimate the effects of cannabinoids. We also assessed how well these studies were conducted and how credible their results were. 
What we found 
We searched for relevant studies that had been published up to June 2020. We found four trials that met the inclusion criteria for this review. A total of 126 people were included in those four trials. Most participants had Alzheimer's disease, and a few had vascular dementia or mixed dementia. 
One trial was undertaken in the USA, one in Canada, and two in The Netherlands. Trials used different types of cannabinoids. Studies reported that cannabinoids have little or no effect on memory and thinking. They reported different results regarding overall behavioural and psychological symptoms of dementia, based on the types of individuals who were reporting data. Family caregivers did not report a beneficial effect of cannabinoids on behaviour and psychological symptoms, but nursing staff reported improvement of symptoms among participants receiving cannabinoids. Harms were reported in all studies, among both participants taking cannabinoids and those taking placebo. However, we could not combine the total number of harmful events due to problems with data reporting. There was no significant difference between participants taking cannabinoids and those given placebo in the total numbers of harmful events belonging to nervous system disorders, psychiatric disorders, and gastrointestinal disorders. Sedation (including lethargy) was more frequent in participants taking cannabinoids, but these results were uncertain. We have very low confidence in these results because studies included a small number of participants, there were differences between the studies, and their results were uncertain. 
