Do statins prevent kidney failure in adults after surgery where cardiac bypass is used? 
Heart surgeries are performed routinely in developed countries and their safety has increased significantly. However, heart surgery is still associated with complications. Of those, kidney failure is of great importance; and patients whose kidneys fail after a heart operation are more likely to have other health problems. Preventing kidney failure after heart surgery is therefore a major health issue. 
Cardiac bypass, which replaces heart and lung functions by diverting blood from major vessels to a machine during surgery, is required for most major heart operations. Cardiac bypass is known to release molecules that cause inflammation into the blood. In susceptible people, these molecules could cause kidney failure. Statins are drugs used to decrease fatty acid (lipid) levels in the blood and help prevent cardiac and vascular disease. Statins also seem to decrease the general level of inflammation in the blood. Although animal studies have suggested that statins could help to prevent kidney failure after heart surgery, they can also cause adverse effects. More evidence is required before statins can be routinely used. 
This review aims to evaluate evidence on the use of statins at the time of heart surgery to investigate if use can help to prevent kidney failure and how well statins are tolerated among patients. We searched the literature to January 2015 and included seven studies that involved a total of 662 participants to inform our assessment. In these studies, patients planned for heart surgery received statins or placebo (or no treatment at all). Five studies (467 participants) reported rates of kidney failure. We found that there was a high risk of bias in six of the seven included studies. 
We found no difference in the rate of kidney failure between patients who received statins and those who did not. Two studies (195 patients) reported serum creatinine (a marker of kidney function) after the operation. We found that serum creatinine was lower in patients in the statin group (indicating better kidney function). Other conclusions were limited by the small number of studies. However, patients who received statins did not seem to need less dialysis. They did not have a higher rate of death in hospital and did not have an increased rate of adverse events. 
