Medications for heavy menstrual bleeding and pain related to intrauterine devices used for birth control 
Background 
Heavy menstrual bleeding and cramping are the most common reasons why women stop using an intrauterine device (IUD) for birth control. We reviewed studies to find out whether pain relief or other medicines, or other methods could reduce bleeding and pain related to IUD use. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is up‐to‐date to January 2021. We included studies that investigated the treatment or prevention of heavy menstrual bleeding or pain related to IUD use. The treatment could be compared with another medicine, no treatment or a placebo (dummy medicine). 
Key results 
This review includes 21 studies with 3689 women. Eleven studies investigated treatment, while 10 looked at prevention of heavy bleeding and pain. Most of the evidence was obtained from single studies with few participants. We have little to no confidence in the results of the studies. Our confidence is limited because some studies involved only a few people, had varied interventions or had no clear reports on how the study was conducted. 
Treatment of heavy menstrual bleeding 
Copper IUD 
Vitamin B1 may reduce the duration of bleeding, number of spotting days and number of pads used per day while. Mefenamic acid may reduce the volume but not the duration of bleeding when compared to tranexamic acid. Naproxen may not reduce the amount of menstrual bleeding associated with copper IUD. 
Levonorgestrel IUD 
Among levonorgestrel IUD users, ulipristal may not reduce the duration of bleeding.
Unknown IUD type 
In one study with an unknown IUD type, we found that mefenamic acid may not reduce the volume of menstrual bleeding. 
Treatment of painful menstruation 
Copper IUD 
Treatment with tranexamic acid and sodium diclofenac may not reduce the occurrence of painful menstruation associated with copper IUD. 
Unknown IUD type 
Naproxen may reduce pain associated with an unknown IUD type
Prevention of heavy menstrual bleeding 
Copper IUD 
Tolfenamic acid may prevent heavy menstrual bleeding while ibuprofen made little to no difference to the volume and duration of menstrual bleeding when compared to placebo. Aspirin in comparison to paracetamol, may not prevent the occurrence of heavy menstrual bleeding. 
Levonorgestrel IUD 
Studies on tranexamic acid, estradiol, naproxen and mifepristone could not tell us whether they prevented heavy menstrual bleeding associated with levonorgestrel IUD use. 
Prevention of painful menstruation 
Copper IUD 
Tolfenamic acid and ibuprofen may not be effective to prevent painful menstruation compared with placebo. 
Authors' conclusions 
Heavy menstrual bleeding among copper IUD users may be treated with vitamin B and mefenamic acid while tranexamic acid and diclofenac may not alleviate painful menstruation. As for levonorgestrel IUD users, ulipristal may not reduce or prevent heavy menstrual bleeding. Tolfenamic acid may prevent heavy menstrual bleeding but not pain associated with levonorgestrel IUD. Our confidence in the evidence is low to very low. More studies are needed in the future to generate higher‐quality evidence regarding effective medicines to treat and prevent heavy menstrual bleeding and painful menstruation associated with IUD use. Evidence from further studies is likely to change our results. 
