Running shoes for preventing lower‐limb running injuries in adults
Title 
Do different types of running shoes change the risk of developing a lower‐limb injury?
Key messages 
Neutral/cushioned shoes may make little or no difference to the number of runners sustaining injuries or footwear satisfaction compared with minimalist shoes. 
It is uncertain if motion control shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining injuries compared with neutral/ cushioned shoes. 
Soft midsole shoes may make little or no difference to the number of runners sustaining injuries compared with hard midsole shoes. 
It is uncertain if stability shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining  injuries compared with neutral/cushioned shoes. 
It is uncertain whether or not motion control shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining a lower‐limb running injuries when compared with stability shoes. 
Prescribing running shoes and selecting on foot posture probably makes little or no difference to running injuries 
Future researchers should develop a consensus definition of running shoe design to help standardise classification. The definition of a running injury should be used consistently and confirmed via health practitioners. Researchers should consider a randomised controlled trial design to increase the evidence in this area and explore the influence of different types or running shoes upon injury rates in specific subgroups. 
Running shoes and running injuries 
Running shoes are designed with features that look to reduce foot motion or how much force is applied to the body, with a view to reducing running‐injury risk. Based upon their design features running shoes may be broadly classified as; motion control, stability or neutral/cushioned and as minimalist if they look to provide little movement control or cushioning features. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out:
whether different types of running shoes could reduce the risk of developing lower‐limb running injuries 
whether prescribed running shoes could reduce the risk of developing lower‐limb running injuries compared to non‐prescribed running shoes 
What did we do?  
We searched for studies that compared running‐injury rates (number of runners injured or total number of injuries) between groups of runners or military personnel who wore different types of running shoes. 
We compared and summarised their results, and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods. 
What did we find?  
We found 12 studies, nine of which assessed leisure or recreational runners and three in military populations. A total of 11,240 participants were included across all studies, with the largest study including 3952 participants and the smallest 24. The following comparisons were made. 
‐ Neutral/ cushioned compared to minimalist running shoes (5 studies, 766 participants)
‐ Motion control compared to neutral/ cushioned running shoes (2 studies, 421 participants)
‐ Soft compared to hard running shoes (2 studies, 1095 participants)
‐ Stability compared to neutral/ cushioned running shoes (1 study, 57 participants)
‐ Motion control compared to stability running shoes (1 study, 56 participants)
‐ Prescribed compared to non‐prescribed running shoes (3 studies, 7203 participants)
The studies did not use the same definition of injury and some used definitions of injury that included injuries to parts of the body other than just the lower limb. 
Main results  
We found the following within our review.
Neutral/cushioned shoes may make little or no difference to the number of runners sustaining a lower‐limb running injuries or runner satisfaction with footwear when compared with minimalist shoes (low‐certainty evidence). 
It is uncertain whether or not motion control shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining lower‐limb running injuries when compared with neutral/cushioned shoes because the certainty of the evidence was very low. 
Soft midsole shoes may make little or no difference to the number of runners sustaining lower‐limb running injuries when compared with hard midsole shoes (low‐certainty evidence). 
It is uncertain whether or not stability shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining lower‐limb running injuries when compared with neutral/cushioned shoes because the certainty of the evidence was very low. 
It is uncertain whether or not motion control shoes reduce the number of runners sustaining lower‐limb running injuries when compared with stability shoes because the certainty of the evidence was very low. 
Prescribing running shoes and selecting on foot posture probably makes little or no difference to lower‐limb running injuries (moderate‐certainty evidence). 
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
We were moderately confident in the evidence from studies comparing prescribed and non‐prescribed running shoes, but this evidence was limited by the fact participants knew what types of running shoes they were receiving. 
