Surgical treatment (shunts compared with devascularisation) for preventing variceal rebleeding due to schistosomiasis of the liver and spleen 
Background 
Schistosomiasis ('bilharzia' or 'snail fever') is a water‐borne disease caused by parasites known as blood flukes. Blood flukes are released by fresh water snails and penetrate the skin of humans (swimmers and others in close contact with water). Here, they migrate into the venous circulation, settling in various typical sites such as the gut, the urinary bladder, and the liver, where they cause local inflammation. In the liver, they result in Symmer's pipe‐stem periportal fibrosis, with the consequent complication of increased portal blood pressure. Infected people may develop varices (enlarged blood vessels within the wall of the oesophagus and stomach). Bleeding from these varices is not uncommon and can result in death. Although several methods exist to stop the initial bleeding, it may recur with the same risk of death as during the initial bleed without further treatment. 
The first‐line treatment to prevent variceal rebleeding is with medications (non‐selective beta‐blockers to lower the portal blood pressure) combined with endoscopic method (use of a long tube fitted with a camera to locate and close the varices with elastic bands). This involves repeated treatment sessions, hence treatment success is heavily dependent on patient compliance, which in low income countries may be adversely affected by eco‐social factors such as transport costs. 
Surgery is an alternative treatment option. There are two broad surgical categories to decrease the risk of repeat bleeding from varices: these are either shunts (a channel that diverts all or part of the bloodstream from the liver to the general blood circulation) or devascularisation surgery (disconnection of the enlarged blood vessels in the walls of the oesophagus and stomach). Either treatment may be performed as a once‐off procedure to prevent variceal rebleeding. However, it is not clear which of these treatments offers the best result. 
