Trifluoperazine versus low‐potency first‐generation drugs for schizophrenia
Antipsychotic drugs are the main treatment for schizophrenia, they help people cope with symptoms such as hearing voices, seeing things and having strange beliefs. Guidelines state that there is no difference in effectiveness between antipsychotics, but low‐potency antipsychotic drugs are often seen as less effective than high‐potency drugs, and they also seem to differ in side‐effects. The classification into high‐potency and low‐potency medication means that low‐potency antipsychotic drugs need higher doses for treating the symptoms of schizophrenia. Side‐effects that are common to most high‐potency antipsychotic drugs include the movement disorders such as uncontrollable movements of the face, arms, or legs; tremors; problems with balance or walking; restlessness; seizures; joint pain whereas low‐potency drugs are more likely to cause sedation, fever and loss of muscle strength. Research has not evaluated and compared high‐potency drugs with low‐potency antipsychotic drugs. The aim of the review was therefore to compare trifluoperazine (a high‐potency antipsychotic) with low‐potency antipsychotics for people with schizophrenia. Examples of low‐potency drugs are chlorpromazine, chlorprothixene, thioridazine and levomepromazine. The review is based on a search carried out in 2010 and included seven studies with a total of 422 people. It compared trifluoperazine with low‐potency antipsychotic drugs. Overall, information was poorly reported and the quality of the studies was low; authors rated the quality of evidence for the main outcomes of interested as being either moderate, low or very low quality. Results do not show a superiority of trifluoperazine compared with low‐potency antipsychotics. However, at least one movement disorder (muscle stiffness) was significantly more with trifluoperazine. For people with schizophrenia it is important to know that trifluoperazine and low‐potency antipsychotics are approximately equal for dealing with symptoms such as hearing voices or seeing things. They differ slightly in their side‐effects, with trifluoperazine leading to at least one movement disorder (muscle stiffness). However, no clear superiority of trifluoperazine versus low‐potency antipsychotics was found. Due to the limited number of studies, participants and low quality of information, these results have to be interpreted with caution.  
This plain language summary has been written by a consumer Benjamin Gray, Service User and Service User Expert, Rethink Mental Illness. 
