Body warming of people undergoing surgery to avoid complications and increase comfort after surgery 
Review question 
We reviewed the effects of warming the body by transferring heat through the skin surface to prevent complications caused by unintended low body temperature (hypothermia) in adults undergoing surgery. 
Background 
Sedatives and anaesthesia interfere with temperature regulatory responses and so can cause unplanned hypothermia during surgery and immediately after surgery. Long periods of exposure of large surfaces of skin to cold temperatures in operating rooms can also contribute to this effect. Hypothermia can make the recovery process more uncomfortable for the patients, as they often wake with chills and shivering, an involuntary response to cold to increase the production of body heat. Hypothermia may also be related to undesirable events such as infections and complications of the wound, complications of the heart and circulation, increased bleeding and a greater need for blood transfusions. 
To avoid this unintended hypothermia, several different types of active warming systems are used to transfer heat to the body of the patient through the skin, either immediately before or during surgery, or both. 
Study characteristics 
The review includes 67 randomized controlled trials (5438 people). The trials included patients of all ages and both genders undergoing all types of surgery. The evidence was from studies available to October 2015. Forty‐five trials compared a warming system to a control intervention, 18 compared different types of warming systems, and 10 compared different modalities of the same warming system. Forced‐air warming was the most studied system. 
Key results 
Active warming had some beneficial clinical effects on the patient. It reduced the risk of a major complication of heart and circulation in one trial in people with substantial disease of that system, but the evidence remains inconclusive. Active warming reduced the rate of infection and complications of surgical wounds.. This effect was shown in two quite large trials in people undergoing abdominal surgery; forced‐air warming was applied exclusively before the operation in one study, while in the other it was applied during the operation. Patients receiving active warming systems had about one‐third the risk of postsurgical chills or shivering compared to those receiving control treatment (29 trials, 1922 people). Thermal comfort was increased for the patient compared with the control intervention (10 trials involving 700 people). On the other hand, warming made little or no difference to the risk of death, blood loss or the need for a blood transfusion. We found no differences in the number of non‐fatal heart attacks, in anxiety or in pain, compared with people in the control groups. 
The trials in the review did not allow us to identify which warming system was better. However, there was an indication from one trial at low risk of bias that results were better when systemic warming was extended to the period before the operation in people undergoing major abdominal surgery. We could only get limited information from the study reports regarding adverse effects. In some cases the trials reported that there had been no adverse effects. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence was low for surgical site infections and complications of the heart and circulation. This is because very few trials with few events reported on these outcomes, although they were at low risk of bias. Patients differed in the types of surgery, with different complexities and duration, the type of anaesthesia, patient age, the severity of the condition and other illnesses. The trials did not last long, which made it difficult to detect clinical effects. These outcomes are also strongly influenced by other management components during the operation that we did not evaluate in this review. While some studies applied a single intervention, others used two or more interventions in combination, and/or included other methods of passive warming. The control group did not always consist of a 'pure control' without active heating, and sometimes patients also received another intervention as part of usual care. All these reasons may explain the diversity that we observed for some outcomes among the studies. The temperature of the control group may also have been more strictly controlled, as there is now widespread awareness of the risk of hypothermia. 
