Tube feeding in patients with acute pancreatitis
Review question 
The intention of this systematic review was to show whether specific enteral nutrition (EN) formulations have any beneficial or harmful effects in the treatment of patients with acute pancreatitis (AP), and whether possible advantages and disadvantages are associated with certain types of EN in comparison with others. Enteral nutrition consists of artificial complete nutrition in liquid form that is absorbed through the intestines. 
Review authors conducted searches of available literature until August 2013 to look for studies comparing different types of EN formulations in the treatment of patients with AP. We included only randomised clinical trials in this review, as these studies, if designed and conducted properly, represent the highest methodological standard in clinical research. 
Background 
Acute pancreatitis is an inflammatory disease of the pancreas ‐ a gland situated in the upper abdominal region that is involved in the process of digestion. The main causes of AP are gallstone disease and excessive alcohol intake. Various factors may activate pancreatic digestive enzymes inside the gland itself, causing tissue damage and extensive inflammation, possibly leading to further damage and resulting in failure of the blood circulatory system, kidneys and/or lungs, and eventually death. 
Despite improvements, mortality associated with severe AP is not decreasing, and no specific treatment is available. EN has proved to be more effective than total parenteral nutrition (stopping oral intake with intravenous administration of nutrients) in reducing organ failure, infectious complications and mortality. EN is usually intended to avoid the stomach and is, therefore, given by a feeding tube inserted through the nose, throat and stomach into the middle part of the small intestine. Many types of EN formulations are available; however, no systematic review of evidence has assessed potential benefits or harms of certain formulations over others. 
Study characteristics 
We included 15 trials with 1376 participants. Two trials included more than two study groups comparing different EN formulations. Six trials compared immunonutrition (EN supplemented with substances potentially able to change the immune response) versus control (other EN, sham treatment (placebo) or no treatment), and six trials investigated EN enriched with probiotics (live bacteria or yeasts that replace or add to helpful bacteria in the gastrointestinal tract). Two trials researched the use of semi‐elemental formulations, which are types of EN in which nutrients are broken down to smaller particles. Two trials studied fibre‐enriched EN, which may stimulate the growth of intestinal micro‐organisms. Only one trial compared immunonutrition enriched with probiotics and fibres versus control. 
Key results 
Immunonutrition compared with control showed reduction in all‐cause mortality. However, when only specific types of EN were compared, this could not be confirmed. Available evidence does not support the effectiveness of probiotics in AP. One trial that made this comparison reported a higher rate of serious adverse events, and consequently more occurrences of organ failure and higher mortality rate. When this trial was excluded, results showed a decrease in mortality, organ dysfunction and pancreatic infectious complications, but with evidence of low to very low quality. Fibre‐enriched formulations had a beneficial effect on decreasing local non‐infectious complications and shortening hospitalisation. No effects were confirmed for semi‐elemental formulations and immunonutrition enriched with probiotics and fibres. These results are inconclusive because of the paucity of data. Comparison of any kind of EN versus no intervention revealed a beneficial effect on all‐cause mortality. Overall, EN was associated with a rather small number of mild adverse events (most often nausea, vomiting, bloating, diarrhoea, pain relapse and higher serological concentrations of sodium) not requiring cessation of tube feeding. We cannot be certain that EN is safe in this population because the quality of evidence for adverse event outcomes is low. 
Quality of the evidence 
All included trials have been assessed as having high risk of bias, most often because they did not provide enough information for adequate assessment of certain study design characteristics, but also because some clear flaws were noted in the way they were designed and carried out. The quality of the evidence throughout this review is considered to be low to very low primarily because of the relatively small numbers of study participants and events included. Study results may reflect systematic and random errors. 
