Intravenous versus inhaled anaesthesia for children having day surgery procedures
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of general anaesthesia (GA) for children having day surgery. The GA was given to the children either by intravenous injection (injection of a drug such as propofol or thiopental) or by the child inhaling or breathing a gas such as sevoflurane or halothane through a mask. We found 16 studies that compared these two types of GA. 
Background 
We wanted to find out whether intravenous or inhaled anaesthesia reduced the risk of outcomes such as postoperative nausea and sickness (vomiting) (PONV) and behavioural problems in children having day surgery. PONV is one of the most common problems for children having day surgery. PONV is a common reason for delay in a child's hospital discharge and for their unplanned admission to hospital. Postoperative pain can cause behavioural problems in children. These behavioural problems may present as moaning, being restless and confused, and physical movements such as thrashing about in the bed. Mental disturbances such as hallucinations, delusions and confusion can also be evident as a child emerges from GA. 
Search date 
The evidence was current to 1 October 2013.  Study characteristics 
We included 16 studies (900 participants) in this review. All participants were otherwise healthy children (aged under 15 years) who were scheduled for day surgery. The studies compared different types of intravenous and inhaled anaesthetic medications. 
Key results 
The authors found that when compared to inhaled anaesthesia with sevoflurane, intravenous anaesthesia with propofol may reduce the risk of PONV and the risk of behavioural problems with no difference in the time to recovery from anaesthesia and discharge from hospital in children having day surgery. The effect on complications was imprecise. The studies that compared other anaesthetic agents involved different types of surgical procedures, different procedure durations and drugs, making it difficult to sum the results. 
Quality of evidence 
Most of the trials included in this review were of poor quality and had high risk of bias. There was great variety in the included studies in the combinations of drugs, duration of anaesthesia and types of surgical procedures, which made the results uncertain. Further trials are needed to compare the types of anaesthesia used in children's ambulatory surgery. 
