The use of vibrating devices to help people with cystic fibrosis clear their airways of mucus 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of vibrating devices (e.g. Flutter, acapella, cornet, Quake®, intrapulmonary percussive ventilation, high frequency chest wall oscillators (e.g. Vest®), VibraLung®, MetaNeb®, and Aerobika® to help people with cystic fibrosis clear their airways of mucus. This is an update of a previously published review. 
Background 
People with cystic fibrosis have too much sticky mucus in their lungs which can lead to constant infection and inflammation. This damages their airways and worsens lung function over time. People with cystic fibrosis use chest physiotherapy to clear the mucus from their lungs. They can use different methods alone or in combination with others ‐ manual techniques, breathing techniques and mechanical devices. Vibrating devices (also sometimes known as oscillators) use pressure generated either inside or outside of the body to clear the mucus. 
Search date 
Evidence is current to 29 July 2019.
Study characteristics 
The review included 39 studies with 1114 people with cystic fibrosis aged between 4 and 63 years of age. Studies compared different physiotherapy treatments and people were selected for one treatment or the other randomly. Not many studies looked at the same types of physiotherapy over the same period of time; studies ranged in duration from two days to 13 months. 
Key results 
Given the differences in study design, it was difficult to combine the results from these studies in a useful way. 
We did not find any clear evidence that vibrating devices were better than any other form of physiotherapy which they were compared to in these studies, or that one device was better than another. One study found that people using an vibrating device needed additional antibiotics for a chest infection more often than those using positive expiratory pressure. When recommending the most suitable method of airway clearance, physiotherapists should consider the needs of the people they are treating. 
For the future, larger and longer trials are needed to measure the frequency of lung infections, preference, adherence to and general satisfaction with treatment, financial constraints should also be taken into consideration. We think adherence is important, because if people with cystic fibrosis are willing to stick to their physiotherapy regimen, there may be improvements in other outcomes such as exercise tolerance, respiratory function and mortality. 
Quality of the evidence 
Overall, we thought most studies had some design problems which might affect our confidence in some of the results. In about a quarter of studies there were concerns that not all the results were reported clearly and in about a third of the studies the reasons for people withdrawing from a trial were not clearly explained. In comparisons of different types of physiotherapy, a person and their physiotherapist will always know which treatment they are receiving and this might affect their answers to some questions, such as which treatment makes them feel better, but we only thought this was a problem in a few studies. We used a scoring system called GRADE to assess the quality of the evidence, we then judged it to be either low‐ or very low‐quality, which suggests that further research is very likely to affect our confidence in the results in this review for of any of the interventions analysed. 
