Milk boosters (galactagogues) for mothers breastfeeding their healthy infants born at term 
What is the issue? 
We set out to determine the ability of milk boosters taken by mouth (medicine, herb or food) to increase milk production in breastfeeding mothers of healthy infants born at term. Poor milk supply is often given as the reason for early supplementation and weaning sooner than desired. A range of factors, including mother's and baby's health, baby's sucking skills, proper latch and frequency of feeds, can affect milk production. Every attempt should first be made to identify and correct the causes for low milk production before trying a milk booster. 
Why is this important? 
Inadequate milk production can be distressing for mothers and threatening to babies' health. The choice of milk booster is often influenced by familiarity or local customs. Some mothers may prefer medications, while others prefer natural remedies. Evidence for the possible benefits and harms of milk boosters is important to assist mothers in making informed decisions. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence from randomised controlled studies up to 4 November 2019 and identified 41 eligible studies involving 3005 mothers and 3006 infants from at least 17 countries. The studies varied widely in babies ages, type of milk boosters investigated, how long they were taken, and how outcomes were reported. Medications included sulpiride, metoclopramide, domperidone and thyrotropin‐releasing hormone. Natural interventions included banana flower, fennel, fenugreek, ginger, ixbut, levant cotton, moringa, palm dates, pork knuckle, shatavari, silymarin, torbangun leaves, and a variety of natural mixtures as teas or soups. 
Milk‐boosting medication 
Nine studies compared a milk‐boosting medication with placebo or no treatment. None reported exclusive breastfeeding rates at 3. 4 or 6 months and only one (metoclopramide, 20 participants) reported on weight gain in infants receiving only their mothers' own milk, with better results in the milk booster group. Three studies that tracked milk volume (domperidone, metoclopramide, sulpiride; 151 participants) reported more milk in the booster groups, though the certainty of the evidence was low. Adverse effects were poorly reported. Where mentioned, they were limited to minor complaints, such as tiredness, nausea, decreased appetite, headache and dry mouth. 
Natural milk boosters 
Twenty‐seven studies compared natural milk boosters with placebo or no treatment. Only one (Mother’s Milk Tea; 60 participants) examined the impact on breastfeeding rates, reporting "no significant difference at 6 months" without providing any data (very low‐certainty evidence). Three studies (275 participants) reported infant weight, two of which (moringa, mixed botanical tea) reported higher gains in the milk booster group, while the other study (fennel and fenugreek) was inconclusive on whether infant weight gain improved with the milk boosters. In the 13 studies tracking changes in milk volume (Bu Xue Sheng Ru, Chan Bao, Cui Ru, banana flower, fenugreek, ginger, moringa, fenugreek, ginger and turmeric mix, ixbut, mixed botanical tea, Sheng Ru He Ji, silymarin, Xian Tong Ru, palm dates; 962 participants), some showed benefits and others little or no difference, so we are very uncertain about the results for milk volume. Adverse effects were poorly reported. Where mentioned, they were limited to minor complaints, such as mothers with urine that smells like maple syrup and rash in infants (very low‐certainty evidence). 
One milk booster compared with another 
Eight studies (Chanbao, Bue Xue Sheng Ru, domperidone, moringa, fenugreek, palm dates, torbangun, moloco, Mu Er Wu You, Kun Yuan Tong Ru) compared one milk booster with another. There was only one small study for each particular match‐up, hence we cannot be certain if any one milk booster truly worked better than another. 
