Effectiveness and safety of two types of tools used in LASIK (a type of refractive surgery) for nearsightedness 
What was the aim of this review?The aim of this Cochrane Review was to assess whether two types of tools for surgical correction of vision (laser‐assisted in‐situ keratomileusis [LASIK]) are effective and safe in people with nearsighted vision. One tool uses a high‐precision blade (mechanical microkeratome) and the other tool uses infrared waves (femtosecond laser). 
What was studied in this review? Nearsightedness is a medical condition in which people can see objects near to them clearly but objects farther away are blurry. As of 2010, nearsightedness affected approximately two billion people worldwide. Nearsightedness can be treated by using either glasses, contact lenses, or surgery. Surgery for nearsightedness changes the shape of the transparent structure in the front part of the eye (cornea). LASIK is the most common surgical procedure used to correct nearsightedness. 
The LASIK procedure creates a flap in the cornea in order to reshape it. This flap can be made by either a mechanical microkeratome or a femtosecond laser. The mechanical microkeratome uses a blade to make the flap and the femtosecond laser uses a laser to make the flap. The flaps made by the two methods are different in thickness and structure, and the side effects resulting from each method are also different. We collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question. We found 11 studies that included 943 participants (1691 eyes). 
What were the main results?There is no evidence of a difference in vision outcomes between using mechanical microkeratome or femtosecond laser. The certainty of evidence is low. However, there may be a difference in side effects between the two methods. The mechanical microkeratome group had more cases of dry eye and the femtosecond laser group had more cases of swelling of the cornea. Overall, due to the low‐certainty evidence presented, it is difficult to draw a general conclusion regarding the effectiveness and safety of these two tools. 
