Effectiveness of dressings and other devices that are used to keep a peripheral venous catheter in place 
Background 
Most people admitted to an acute/emergency hospital ward require the insertion of a peripheral venous catheter/cannula (PVC), often known as a 'drip' or 'IV'. A PVC is a flexible, hollow, plastic tube that is inserted in a peripheral vein, most commonly in the hand, or lower arm. Up to half of all PVCs stop working before treatment has finished and a new one has to be inserted. This is uncomfortable for the patient and costly for the healthcare system. One of the reasons PVCs fail, is that the products used to hold them in place are not fully effective, and allow the PVC to move around. This movement causes redness, inflammation and even blood infections. The PVC can become blocked, or leak into the surrounding tissues, or even fall out as a consequence of the movement. The function of PVC dressings and/or securement devices is to keep the PVC in the vein, and to cover the insertion site so that it is kept dry and clean and protected from infection. 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect that different PVC dressings and securement devices have on PVC failure rates. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the medical literature for studies that compared different types of products that are used to keep PVCs in place. We found six studies (involving 1539 participants) that compared four different ways of securing PVCs. These included: 
1. a plain transparent film dressing compared with a gauze (woven fabric) dressing; 2. a bordered transparent dressing (clear transparent window with a reinforced fabric edge) compared with a securement device (that has anchor points or clips that hold the PVC in place over a strong adhesive base pad on the skin) that is used in conjunction with a transparent film dressing; 3. a bordered transparent dressing compared with non‐sterile medical tape; 4. a plain transparent film dressing compared with sticking plaster. 
The participants in the studies were both adults and children on medical and surgical wards. There were no studies based in emergency departments. 
Key results 
Two studies provided very low quality evidence that PVCs were less likely to fail when a transparent dressing was used rather than gauze. 
Other positive outcomes favouring one dressing over another were based on the results of very low quality, single studies. Overall there is a lack of high quality evidence and continued uncertainty regarding the best methods of securing a peripheral venous catheter remains. 
More high quality research is needed in this area.
Quality of the evidence 
We assessed a number of quality indicators regarding the methods used in each study and graded the overall quality of studies as very low. Each study had a high or unclear risk of bias for some of the quality indicators. For example, it is likely that clinical staff responsible for assessing participants' outcomes knew the treatment group to which each person belonged, as the securement methods for PVCs looked different. 
