Surgical versus conservative interventions for treating broken collarbones in adolescents and adults 
This summary presents what we know from research about the effects of surgery compared with non‐surgical (conservative) treatments, such as wearing a sling or a figure‐of‐eight bandage for two to six weeks to treat a fractured (broken) collarbone. 
Background 
The collarbone, or clavicle, acts as a bridge across the front of the chest to connect the arm and the rib cage. It helps to stabilise the shoulder while allowing the arm to move freely, and provides an area of attachment for muscles, functioning also as part of the musculoskeletal apparatus used in breathing. The collarbone also protects nerves and blood vessels and plays an important aesthetic role in a person's physical appearance. The most common site of clavicle fracture is the middle third of the clavicle. The injury typically occurs in youths and older adults. It usually results from a fall directly onto the outer side of the shoulder. Most middle third collarbone fractures are treated conservatively (non‐surgically). However, outcome can be unsatisfactory for the more serious fractures. Surgical treatment involves putting the bone back in place and, usually, performing internal fixation by using a plate and screws or a metal rod, which is inserted into the inner cavity (medulla) of the clavicle bone. 
Results of the search 
We searched medical databases up to December 2017 and included 14 studies involving 1469 participants with displaced or angulated middle third clavicle fractures. All participants were adults, ranging in age from 17 to 70 years, and there were more men than women. Ten studies compared plate fixation with conservative intervention (sling and/or figure‐of‐eight bandage), and four studies compared intramedullary fixation with wearing either a sling or a figure‐of‐eight bandage. 
Key results 
The review showed that surgery compared with conservative treatment may not improve upper arm function, pain and quality of life one year later. However, surgery may reduce the risk of treatment failure where secondary surgery is required for fractures that did not heal or that healed incorrectly. We are uncertain whether surgery provides a better cosmetic result overall. Although surgery reduces shoulder deformity, it can result in unsightly scars and prominent metalwork. We are also uncertain if there is a difference between surgery and conservative treatment in the risk of having a complication. However the nature of such complications often differs according to treatment. Complications of surgery, such as wound infection and opening, or hardware irritation requiring additional surgery, need to be balanced against complications more likely to occur with a sling, such as shoulder stiffness and failure of the fracture to heal properly. 
Quality of the evidence 
All 14 studies had weaknesses that could affect the reliability of their results. We considered that the evidence for all outcomes was either of low or very low quality. 
Conclusion 
Low‐quality evidence indicates that surgery may not result in benefits over conservative treatment, or in more complications. However we are uncertain about these effects and further studies may change these conclusions. 
