Music for insomnia in adults
Review question 
This review assessed the effects of listening to music on insomnia (sleep problems) in adults and the impact of factors that may influence the effect. 
Key messages 
We found a beneficial effect of music on sleep quality. For all the other outcomes, we did not find enough good‐quality evidence as there were too few participants and the people doing the scoring of the data were aware of the treatment.  
What is insomnia? 
Worldwide, millions of people experience insomnia. People can have difficulties getting to sleep, staying asleep or may experience poor sleep quality. 
Poor sleep affects people's physical and mental health. The consequences of poor sleep are costly, for both individuals and society. Many people listen to music to improve their sleep, but the effect of listening to music is unclear. 
What did we do? 
We searched electronic databases to identify relevant studies. We included 13 studies with 1007 participants. The studies compared the effect of listening to music to treatment as usual or no treatment. Treatment as usual could be sleep hygiene education (learning a set of rituals to help with sleep) or standard care for participants with insomnia related to chronic medical conditions. The studies examined the effect of listening to prerecorded music daily, for 25 to 50 minutes, for three days to three months. Seven of the included studies reported funding from national research councils or university sources, and one study reported funding from a private foundation. Five studies did not report any funding sources.  
What did we find? 
Ten studies measured sleep quality, and the results showed that music probably facilitates a large improvement in the quality of sleep compared to no treatment or treatment as usual. We do not know if listening to music has an effect on the severity of insomnia (difficulty in falling or staying asleep) or the number of times a person wakes up (broken sleep) compared to no treatment or treatment as usual. Listening to music may improve slightly sleep‐onset latency (how quickly a person falls asleep), sleep duration (length of time a person is asleep) and sleep efficiency (amount of a time a person is asleep compared to the total time spent in bed), compared to no treatment or treatment as usual. None of the studies reported any negative effects caused by listening to music.  
What are the limitations of the evidence? 
The quality of evidence from the 10 studies that examined sleep quality was moderate. Our confidence in the evidence for the quality of sleep is only moderate because the people in the studies were aware of which treatment they were getting and the people scoring the data were also sometimes aware of which treatment the participants were getting, which could introduce bias. We have little confidence in the evidence for the severity of insomnia because the studies were very small and were done in different types of people who knew which treatment they were getting. Our confidence in the evidence on sleep‐onset latency, sleep duration and sleep efficiency is low because the studies used very different methods to measure these outcomes, and the people in the studies were aware of the nature of the treatment. We have little confidence in the evidence on sleep interruption because the studies used different methods and showed different results. Furthermore, the participants in the studies knew which treatment they were getting.  
