Drug‐eluting balloon angioplasty versus uncoated balloon angioplasty for stenosis of stents in lower limb arteries 
Background Many people have disease in their leg arteries that may develop into a blockage and lead to loss of circulation and subsequent pain, skin ulcers, and amputation of the leg. In an effort to prevent lack of blood from harming the leg, procedures can be performed to bypass the blocked artery using a vein or an artificial graft, or to cross it with a wire and open it with a balloon, then place a stent to help prevent the blockage from happening again. Although stents are very strong and can last a long time, it is possible that a stent inside an artery might at times become narrower, and eventually can become blocked. This process is known as "in‐stent restenosis." A blocked stent can be treated in several ways, such as sucking out the clot or ballooning it, or placing another stent inside the stent that failed. Although all treatment options offer advantages and disadvantages, there have been advancements in the technologies available to treat this problem. One of these advancements requires covering the balloon used to treat the stent blockage with a cytotoxic drug used in chemotherapy, to slow down the blockage process after the stent is treated. Such specially prepared balloons, known as "drug‐eluting balloons," have shown encouraging results for treating patients with artery disease in the leg. 
Review question The goal of this review was to determine how drug‐eluting balloon (DEB) angioplasty compares with traditional uncoated balloon angioplasty, also known as plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA), for the treatment of in‐stent restenosis in stents placed in leg arteries. 
Study characteristics Our review included three clinical trials that randomized 263 participants (most recent search ‐ November 28, 2017). Trials included leg arteries at and above the knee and were carried out in Europe; all used DEBs that contained the chemical known as "paclitaxel." Two companies manufactured the DEBs: Eurocor and Medtronic. Most study participants were followed for six or more months; this is called "follow‐up." 
Key results Results showed that DEBs were not better for participants than uncoated balloon angioplasty with regard to the need for amputation. At 24 months of follow‐up, DEBs were associated with fewer target lesion revascularizations, which refers to the need to perform a procedure on a stent that had already been treated with a DEB or an uncoated balloon angioplasty for in‐stent restenosis. DEBs were also found to have better binary restenosis rates, which refers to the percentage of treated stents that develop new stenosis after they have been treated with a DEB or an uncoated balloon angioplasty. Finally, more people who were treated with DEBs described improvement in their leg symptoms, as measured by a change in their Rutherford category. DEBs were not found to be better for participants than uncoated balloon angioplasty with regard to patient death. 
