Pharmacological treatments for Friedreich ataxia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of antioxidants and other medicines for Friedreich ataxia. 
Background 
Friedreich ataxia is a rare inherited neurological condition, which first presents between 5 and 15 years of age. It initially causes clumsiness of movement, and progresses to unsteadiness in standing and walking, with wheelchair dependency by late teens or early twenties. Speech usually becomes slurred. A specific faulty gene must be inherited from each parent for the disease to develop in their child (autosomal recessive inheritance). Other major problems which can develop include a curved spine (scoliosis), foot deformity (a high arch), and heart problems, which are a cause of death in 60% of people. Friedreich ataxia has no known effective treatment. Clinical examination and laboratory tests are not very useful for assessing disease progression, and this in turn makes interpreting clinical trial results difficult. 
Antioxidants are thought to reduce damage to cells from harmful 'free radicals'. Antioxidants occur naturally in foods in very low levels. Recent studies have found conflicting results about the effect that the antioxidants idebenone, coenzyme Q10 and vitamin E have on the heart in Friedreich ataxia, as measured by thickening of the interventricular septum (the wall between two chambers of the heart), and increased left ventricular mass (the left ventricle is the chamber of the heart that pumps blood around the body). 
Study characteristics 
We decided to review clinical trials that had participants who took antioxidants for at least 12 months, as Friedreich ataxia is a slowly progressing condition. A wide search of the medical literature found four randomised controlled trials, but only two of them had published results in medical journals. One trial, involving 28 participants, compared idebenone to a placebo. The other, involving 44 participants, compared high‐dose and very low‐dose combined coenzyme Q10 and vitamin E. The two unpublished trials studied pioglitazone in 40 participants and idebenone in 232 participants, but we had no data. 
