Fraction size in radiation therapy for breast conservation in early breast cancer
Review question 
We asked if giving fewer radiation treatments (using a higher radiation dose at each visit) was as effective as the conventional 25 to 30 radiation treatments for women with early breast cancer who have breast conserving therapy (keep their breast). 
Background 
Breast cancer is the most common cancer diagnosed in women, with one in eight women in the United States and Australia, and one in nine women in the United Kingdom being diagnosed with the condition by age 85 years. Breast conserving therapy (removing the tumour but keeping an intact breast) has proven to be as effective as mastectomy (removing the breast tissue) in terms of survival for women with cancer confined to the breast (or the local lymph nodes, or both), as long as a five to six‐week course of radiation therapy is delivered. This involves 25 to 30 visits to a radiation oncology department. Without radiation therapy after breast conserving surgery there is a significant risk of breast cancer returning in the breast (local recurrence). Furthermore, for every local recurrence avoided with radiation, one death is avoided at 15 years. Many women prefer breast conservation which has resulted in an increased demand for radiation services. Giving fewer daily radiation treatments (fractions) would be beneficial to women if this has the same effect on tumour control and survival, and cosmetic outcome. In order to reduce the number of treatments, the radiation dose delivered per fraction is increased. This may also reduce demand on radiation resources and be more convenient for women. 
Study characteristics 
Nine studies, involving 8228 women, were included in this review. Most of the women in the studies (91%) had tumours 3 cm or less in size, all had complete removal of the tumour on pathology and 68% had no evidence of cancer in their lymph nodes. Where the breast size was known, 83% had small or medium breasts. 
Key results 
The evidence is current up to May 2015. Local recurrence was not different for women having fewer treatments (four fewer local relapses per 1000 (where the true value may be anywhere between 16 fewer to 10 more local relapses per 1000)). Breast appearance was not different for women undergoing fewer treatments (31 fewer fair/poor breast appearance per 1000 (where the true value may be anywhere between 59 fewer to 3 more per 1000 with fair/poor breast appearance)). Survival was not altered by having fewer treatments (13 fewer deaths per 1000 (where the true value could be between 31 fewer to 5 more deaths per 1000)) and there was no significant difference in late skin toxicity (4 more episodes of toxicity per 1000; where the true value may be anywhere between 14 fewer to 36 more episodes of toxicity per 1000) or radiation toxicity. Acute skin toxicity is decreased with fewer treatments (326 fewer events per 1000 (where the true value may be anywhere between 264 fewer to 374 fewer acute skin toxicity events per 1000)). This review indicates that for women who fit these criteria, using fewer radiation treatments after tumour removal gives the same cancer control, with less skin reaction at the time and the likely the same side‐effects in the long term. 
