Short‐course versus long‐course antibiotic treatment for hospital‐acquired pneumonia in adult intensive care patients 
Review question  We reviewed the evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that compared the effects of a short course of antibiotics with a long course for intensive care patients with hospital‐acquired pneumonia (HAP). 
Background  Hospital‐acquired pneumonia is the major cause of hospital‐acquired infection in the intensive care unit (ICU). There are a number of factors that make the critically ill more likely to develop pneumonia, among which the most important is tracheal intubation performed in conjunction with mechanical ventilation; thus, the majority of ICU patients with HAP have what is termed ventilator‐associated pneumonia (VAP). 
There is concern that an unnecessarily long course of antibiotic therapy may lead to patients acquiring antibiotic‐resistant organisms, which may be more difficult to recognise and treat when they cause infection and may increase drug costs. On the other hand, too short a course risks the treatment failing. 
Study characteristics  The evidence was current as of June 2015. We identified six RCTs, which had enrolled 1088 patients. The studies took quite different approaches to their investigations, and we found only one study that had explored the duration of antibiotic therapy for ICU patients who had HAP, but were not mechanically ventilated. 
Key results  For patients with VAP, our main finding was that a course of seven or eight days of antibiotics was associated with an overall decrease in antibiotic administration and reduced the recurrence of pneumonia due to resistant organisms when compared with a 10‐ to 15‐day course. Furthermore, this was achieved without any significant effect on mortality. Nevertheless, in cases when VAP was due to a particular type of organism ('non‐fermenting Gram‐negative bacillus'), which can be difficult to eradicate with antibiotics, the risk of pneumonia recurring appeared higher after a short course of treatment. 
