Bilateral (two) versus unilateral (one) hearing aid(s) for bilateral hearing impairment in adults 
Review question 
Should adult patients with bilateral (two‐sided) hearing loss be fitted with one or two hearing aids? 
Background 
Hearing loss can be present from birth or can come on in later life. The latter is called 'acquired' hearing loss and is common. Its incidence increases markedly with age. In most people, 'age‐related' hearing loss is due to the loss of cells in the inner ear (so called 'sensorineural hearing loss') and affects both ears to the same degree. Hearing loss categorised as mild, moderate or severe is primarily managed with hearing aids. People with bilateral hearing loss may be offered one aid, fitted to one specific ear, or two aids fitted to both ears. There is uncertainty about the relative benefits to patients of these different strategies. 
Study characteristics 
We included four studies with a total of 209 patients, ranging in age from 23 to 85 and with more men than women. All the studies allowed the use of hearing aids for a total period of at least eight weeks before questions were asked about their preference for one or two aids. In all the studies the patients had bilateral hearing loss but there was considerable variation in what type of hearing loss they suffered from and how bad their hearing was. 
Three of the studies were published before the mid‐1990s and the fourth study was published in 2011. Therefore, only the most recent study used 'modern' hearing aids similar to those that are widely available in high‐income countries. Of the four studies, two were conducted in the UK in National Health Service (NHS – public sector) patients. One of these looked at patients from primary care whose hearing loss had been picked up by a screening programme. The other looked at patients whose primary care practitioner thought they might benefit from hearing aids so had referred them to the local ENT department to get them. The other two studies were conducted in the United States: one study recruited only people on active military duty, or who had served in the military and had hearing loss due to being exposed to loud noises. About half of the people in the other study were ex‐military. 
