Short‐acting inhaled bronchodilators for cystic fibrosis
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence for using short‐acting inhaled bronchodilators (treatments which widen and open the airways, making it easier to breathe) in people with cystic fibrosis. Short‐acting bronchodilators take effect quickly and generally last 4 to 6 hours. We were interested in any type of short‐acting inhaled bronchodilator, given at any dose, and by any type of device (inhalers or nebulisers). 
Both nebulisers and inhalers deliver medicine. Nebulisers turn liquid medication into an easily‐inhaled mist. They vary in type but need a power source, e.g. a rechargeable battery, to function. Inhalers deliver short bursts of medicine (as an aerosol or dry powder) via a manual handheld device. The most common type of inhaler is a metered‐dose inhaler. Inhalers can be used with spacers (empty tubes, usually made from plastic that slot onto the mouthpiece of the inhaler).  
Inhaled bronchodilators are used by many people with cystic fibrosis to help them breathe, and to make it easier to clear mucus from their lungs. We wanted to know if these treatments were better than a placebo (dummy) treatment or another type of short‐acting inhaled bronchodilator. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 28 March 2022.
Trial characteristics 
The review included 11 trials with 191 people with cystic fibrosis aged between 5 and 40 years of age. Trials compared two different types of short‐acting inhaled bronchodilator (beta‐2 agonists such as salbutamol or albuterol, and muscarinic antagonists such as ipratropium bromide) against a placebo substance which contained no medication, or a different short‐acting inhaled bronchodilator; three of the trials had three comparison groups ‐ beta‐2 agonists versus muscarinic antagonists versus placebo. All trials were cross‐over trials, so all of the people included in the trial received both treatments at different times, and the order that they received the treatments was random. The trials lasted from a single‐dose trial to 6 months. Eight trials looked at the effects of short‐acting inhaled beta‐2 agonists versus placebo, four trials at the effects of a short‐acting inhaled muscarinic antagonist versus placebo, and three trials looked at the effects of a short‐acting inhaled beta‐2 agonist with a short‐acting inhaled muscarinic antagonist. 
