Drugs to help reduce anxiety in people nearing the end of life due to illness
Review question 
We aimed to answer the question "how good are drugs at treating anxiety and worry in adults who have an illness which is getting worse and are in the last year of their life?" 
Background 
Anxiety or worry is a common problem for people who have an illness which is getting worse and are in the last year of their life. People may be anxious for many reasons. These reasons include being worried about pain and treatment, having to rely on other people to help them and having to face death. Anxiety can make it difficult for people to cope with their illness. Anxiety can make other problems worse and harder to manage, problems such as pain or feeling short of breath. For people who are nearing the end of their life due to illness, it is important to reduce their worry if possible. The use of some medicines may help to reduce anxiety. However, anxiety in people who are nearing the end of life has not be studied very much. People with anxiety often do not have their anxiety properly treated. 
We searched for studies which looked at how good medicines were at reducing worry in adults nearing the end of their life. We were interested in studies that compared use of a medicine to no medicine, another medicine or a different dose of that medicine, or treatments such as talking to someone or relaxation therapy. We were interested in studies that measured anxiety. We were interested in trials designed to ensure that participants had an equal chance of receiving any of the treatments being tested in each trial. This review was first done in 2004 and updated in 2012. This is the second update. We searched to May 2016 for studies to include in this review. 
Key results 
We found no studies to include in this review. No studies were found for the original 2004 review or for the 2012 update. There is a lack of studies assessing the effect of drugs on reducing anxiety in adults who are nearing the end of their life. We found two relevant studies which may be included in a future update, but we need more information before we can make a judgement. Anxiety can have a big impact on how a person can cope with their illness, and we therefore need to know how to reduce their anxiety. Good‐quality studies on how to reduce anxiety are needed. 
