Local and regional anaesthesia at the time of surgery to prevent longer‐term persistent pain after surgery 
Review question 
We set out to determine if the use of local anaesthetics (numbing medicine) at the time of surgery reduces the risk of having pain that persists for three months and more after surgery. The comparison was with pain killers alone, such as opioids and non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs. 
Background 
Pain that persists long after surgery is called persistent postoperative pain (PPP), and is not uncommon. Tissue damage and nerve injury can change pain pathways and sensibility to pain so that pain persists for months. A person may also feel pain more intensely or with a stimulus that normally is not perceived as pain. These changes can be permanent. Applying local anaesthetics close to nerves, bundles of nerves, or nerve roots in the central nervous system, as with an epidural, can interrupt the conduction of pain impulses from the surgical site to the central nervous system. Effective treatment of acute pain may prevent PPP. Wound infiltration uses a specially designed tube with multiple holes that is placed inside the wound to deliver the local anaesthetic. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to December 2016. We found 63 randomized controlled trials (RCTs) with participants undergoing open chest, heart, breast, abdominal, vascular, gynaecological and other surgery, but not orthopaedic surgery. RCTs are studies where people are allocated by chance to one or the other of different treatments being studied. The studies included only adults, and were mostly conducted in Europe and North America, with some from China, Egypt and Brazil. The types of surgery included surgery with a high event rate of persistent pain after surgery, such as breast surgery, limb amputation and opening the chest, and surgery with a lower risk but high numbers of procedures, such as caesarean section. 
We were able to pool results from 39 RCTs enrolling a total of 3027 participants for our inclusive analysis. Follow‐up was for 1293 participants at three months, 1365 participants at six months, 326 participants at 12 months, and 43 participants at 20 or more months after surgery. The RCTs did not report surgical and anaesthetic complications consistently and little information was available on these. The studies were mostly funded by the institutions conducting the studies. 
Key results 
Regional anaesthesia reduced the number of people who experienced persistent pain after undergoing non‐orthopaedic surgery. For open chest surgery, giving an epidural halved the odds of a person having persistent postoperative pain at three to 18 months after surgery (7 RCTs, 499 participants, moderate‐quality evidence). Seven people needed to be treated in this way for one to benefit. 
For the prevention of persistent pain three to 12 months after breast cancer surgery, seven people needed regional anaesthesia for one to benefit (18 RCTs, 1297 participants, low‐quality evidence). Infusion of local anaesthetic into a vein was shown to reduce the risk of persistent pain three to six months after breast surgery (2 RCTs, 97 participants, moderate‐quality evidence), with three people needing to be treated for one to benefit. Regional anaesthesia reduced the odds by more than half of a woman experiencing persistent pain after caesarean section (4 RCTs, 551 participants, moderate‐quality evidence). The number of women treated for one to benefit was 19. 
Continuous local anaesthetic infusion of the site where bone tissue was obtained from the hip bone did not clearly reduce the number of people with persistent pain at three to 55 months (3 RCTs, 123 participants, low‐quality evidence). 
