Artificial limb rehabilitation for older people with a leg amputated at or above the knee because of blood circulation problems 
Background 
Problems with inadequate circulation in the legs (dysvascularity), particularly in people over the age of 60 years, can be so severe that they need a leg amputated. This may occur as high as at or above the knee. Accompanying medical conditions (comorbidities) such as diabetes and cardiovascular or heart disease can affect a person's rehabilitation. When an above‐ or through‐knee artificial limb (prosthesis) is fitted, it is hard for the person to regain mobility and function, and some people choose to use a wheelchair. Motivation, comfort, cosmetic appearance, functionality, reliability, ease of use, previous mobility, and the extra exertion needed to use an artificial leg are all important factors that can affect a person's independence and use of the prosthesis. Fear of falling, number of falls, social circumstances, and help and support from other people are also important influences. The review authors searched for trials comparing different types of rehabilitation that may benefit mobility or function in older people using an artificial limb. 
Study characteristics and key results 
Reviewers found only one controlled trial of moderate methodological quality (most recent search, 14 June 2018). This trial had a cross‐over design, and each of the 10 participants had three seemingly identical prosthetic weights added to the prosthesis below the knee in random order. All artificial limbs were modular‐style prostheses. The participants ‐ nine men and one woman ‐ were over 50 years of age, and eight were over 60 years old. Over the few hours of the trial, four participants preferred the lightest weight (150 g), five preferred the medium weight (770 g), and one preferred the heaviest weight (1625 g). Seven of the 10 people successfully ranked the weights from lightest to heaviest. The weights did not alter participants' walking speed in a two‐minute walk test. Study authors reported no adverse effects. 
