Standard versus biofilm antibiotic testing to guide antibiotic treatment in cystic fibrosis 
Review question 
We reviewed evidence to see which testing method is better when deciding which antibiotics to use for treating a flare up of symptoms in people with cystic fibrosis; whether it is better to test antibiotics on Pseudomonas aeruginosa bacteria (bugs) when they are grown in a layer of slime (a biofilm) or when they are grown in liquid. We wanted to know if one of these methods would lead to better antibiotic choices with better clinical outcomes. 
Background 
Long‐term lung infection is the main cause of death in people with cystic fibrosis. Antibiotic treatments for these infections have helped people with cystic fibrosis live longer. Doctors usually choose which antibiotics to use after on testing them against bacteria grown from samples taken from the infected person. These bacteria are grown in a liquid in the laboratory; but in real life bacteria such as Pseudomonas aeruginosa do not grow in liquid in the lungs of people with cystic fibrosis, instead they grow in a slime layer called a biofilm. Laboratory testing of antibiotics against Pseudomonas aeruginosa grown in a biofilm rather than in a liquid may give results that lead to better antibiotic choices with better clinical outcomes when treating lung infections in people with cystic fibrosis. 
Search date 
We last looked for evidence on 07 April 2020.
Study characteristics 
We included two trials, one run in the USA (in people who were clinically stable) and one run in Canada (in people who were having an exacerbation or respiratory flare up). A total of 78 people from these trials gave sputum samples. Bacteria from these samples were grown in either a liquid (34 samples) or biofilm (44 samples) with an equal chance of being grown in either one. Neither the people taking part or their clinicians knew before or during the trial which method had been used for the sample from each person. A mixture of adults and children took part in the trials, with the average age being around 20 to 30 years. There were an equal number of men and women in both trials. Around half the people in the trials had two copies of the delta F508 gene and there were almost equal number of these in each group. Average lung function in both groups was similar. 
Key results 
The main outcome of both trials was the decrease in the amount of bacteria in the sputum of people in each group after antibiotic treatment. There was no difference in the levels of bacteria found in the sputum or in the improvement in lung function between the two groups in either trial. In both trials, there was a similar number of individuals in each group who had either a mild or moderate side effect. There were no serious side effects reported by anyone in either study. The evidence does not show that one method of testing is better than the other and that people receiving antibiotics chosen on the basis of either method have equal chances of any side effects. 
