What interventions improve the accuracy and continuity of medication lists as patients move between healthcare providers and settings? 
What is the aim of this review? 
We aimed to find out if medication (medicine) reconciliation improves medication discrepancies, outcomes affecting patients specifically and healthcare utilisation as patients move or transition between healthcare providers (e.g. pharmacists, nurses, doctors) and settings (e.g. emergency department, primary care). Medication reconciliation involves building a complete list of a person's medications, checking them for accuracy, reconciling and documenting any changes. Medication reconciliation is recommended as an intervention to improve the accuracy of medication information at transitions. All care transitions (e.g. home to hospital, ED to hospital ward) and patient types (e.g. children, older people) were open for inclusion in the review. 
Key messages 
Review authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 25 studies. This review found unreliable evidence that interventions reduced the number of discrepancies in patients' medications as they transition between different healthcare settings. Similarly, the benefit in terms of clinically orientated outcomes (e.g. admission to hospital) was uncertain. 
What was studied in the review? 
We included studies that used a randomised design where people were randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups. The main outcome of interest was whether the possibility of any discrepancies in a patient's medication list was reduced following the intervention. Other outcomes that were assessed in the review were the intervention's impact on the number of medication discrepancies, medication side effects, preventable medication side effects, hospital usage (e.g. emergency department visits and readmission to hospital), negative/adverse impacts of the intervention and resource usage. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors found 25 studies conducted in eight different countries in hospital or immediately related settings. Twenty‐three studies were primarily pharmacist delivered, one was an electronic reconciliation tool and one medical record changes. Studies mainly included older people prescribed multiple medications. 
