Electrotherapy for neck pain
Background 
Neck pain is common, disabling and costly. Electrotherapy is an umbrella term that covers a number of therapies using electric current that aim to reduce pain and improve muscle tension and function. 
Study characteristics 
This updated review included 20 small trials (N = 1239). We included adults (> 18 years old) with acute whiplash or non‐specific neck pain as well as chronic neck pain including degenerative changes, myofascial pain or headaches that stem from the neck. No index for severity of the disorders could be specified. The evidence was current to August 2012. The results of the trials could not be pooled because they examined different populations, types and doses of electrotherapy and comparison treatments, and measured slightly different outcomes.   
Key results 
We cannot make any definitive statements about the efficacy of electrotherapy for neck pain because of the low or very low quality of the evidence for each outcome, which in most cases was based on the results of only one trial.  
For patients with acute neck pain, TENS possibly relieved pain better than electrical muscle stimulation, not as well as exercise and infrared light, and as well as manual therapy and ultrasound. There was no additional benefit when added to infrared light, hot packs and exercise, physiotherapy, or a combination of a neck collar, exercise and pain medication. For patients with acute whiplash, iontophoresis was no more effective than no treatment, interferential current, or a combination of traction, exercise and massage for relieving neck pain with headache. 
For patients with chronic neck pain, TENS possibly relieved pain better than placebo and electrical muscle stimulation, not as well as exercise and infrared light, and possibly as well as manual therapy and ultrasound. Magnetic necklaces were no more effective than placebo for relieving pain; and there was no additional benefit when electrical muscle stimulation was added to either mobilisation or manipulation. 
For patients with myofascial neck pain, TENS, FREMS (FREquency Modulated Neural Stimulation, a variation of TENS) and repetitive magnetic stimulation seemed to relieve pain better than placebo. 
Quality of the evidence 
About 70% of the trials were poorly conducted studies. The trials were very small, with a range of 16 to 336 participants. The data were sparse and imprecise, which suggests that results cannot be generalized to the broader population and contributes to the reduction in the quality of the evidence. Therefore, further research is very likely to change the results and our confidence in the results. 
