Timing of initiation of renal replacement therapy for acute kidney injury
What is the issue? 
Acute kidney injury (AKI) is very common among patients admitted to intensive care unit (ICU); it is associated with high death rates and characterised by the rapid loss of the kidney function. Patients with AKI show increased levels of serum uraemic toxins (creatinine and urea), serum potassium and metabolic acids, accumulation of water and in the most cases a reduction in urine output. In this population these chemicals and fluid overload are related to increased rates of death. Theoretically, early removal of toxins and excess water from the bloodstream might improve patient outcomes (such as death rate and recovery of kidney function). 
Renal replacement therapy (RRT) is a blood purification technique that enables removal of excess water and toxins. RRT involves blood being diverted from the patient via a catheter (a hollow, flexible tube placed into a vein) through a filtering system which removes excess water and toxins; purified blood is then returned to the patient via the catheter. Early initiation of RRT improves the removal of toxins and excess water. The aim of this review was to investigate the effect of different timing of RRT initiation (early or standard) on death, recovery of kidney function, and adverse events in people with AKI who are critically ill. 
What did we do? 
We searched the literature up until August 2018 and identified five studies enrolling 1084 critically ill patients with AKI that were evaluated in this review. 
What did we find? 
Five randomised studies enrolling 1084 participants were included in our review. Compared to standard, early initiation of RRT may reduce the risk of death, may increase the recovery of kidney function, or increase the risk of adverse events in patients with AKI in intensive care units. Nevertheless, in death the early initiation of RRT showed a range of values that included benefit (decrease death), as well as harm (increase death). 
