Brivaracetam add‐on therapy for drug‐resistant epilepsy
Background 
Epilepsy is a disorder characterised by multiple seizures. Most people can control their epilepsy with a single antiepileptic drug; however, some people require multiple antiepileptic drugs. These people are said to have drug‐resistant epilepsy. Brivaracetam is an antiepileptic drug that can be taken with another antiepileptic medication to try to manage drug‐resistant epilepsy. 
Aim of the review 
We aimed to determine whether brivaracetam is effective and tolerable when used as add‐on treatment for people with drug‐resistant epilepsy. For this update, we did not identify any new studies to add, therefore our conclusions remain unchanged. 
Results 
We identified six studies (2411 participants) that investigated brivaracetam as add‐on treatment for drug‐resistant epilepsy. Study participants were aged 16 to 80, and most had focal epilepsy (i.e. epilepsy that originates in one area of the brain). People who received brivaracetam in addition to their normal antiepileptic medication were almost twice as likely to experience a 50% or greater reduction in the frequency of their seizures compared to people who were given placebo (i.e. a fake, inactive drug that should not affect epilepsy). People who received brivaracetam were also nearly six times more likely to achieve freedom from all seizures than those receiving placebo. People who received brivaracetam were not more likely to experience side effects compared to people receiving placebo; however, they were more likely to withdraw from study due to side effects. 
Certainty of the evidence 
The evidence for freedom from all seizures was of low certainty and the evidence for 50% or greater reduction in the seizure frequency was of moderate certainty.  This means that when brivaracetam is used as an add‐on for adults with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy, people may be more likely to become free from all seizures than people given placebo and that brivaracetam is probably effective at reducing seizure frequency. The evidence for the proportion of people who experienced any side effects was of moderate certainty so is likely to be accurate.  We did not investigate the number of people who experienced individual adverse events. This should be investigated in future reviews.  
The evidence for this review was taken from randomised controlled trials that only studied adults and mainly studied people with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy, and not with generalised epilepsy.  
This review shows that overall brivaracetam is a fairly tolerable and effective drug for use specifically in adults with drug‐resistant focal epilepsy. All study participants were adults, and most had focal epilepsy. Therefore, we do not know the effectiveness of brivaracetam in children or in people with other types of epilepsy, such as generalised epilepsy (i.e. epilepsy that involves the whole brain). 
