What happens if haloperidol treatment is discontinued for people with schizophrenia
Review question 
What are the effects of discontinuing the antipsychotic haloperidol in people with schizophrenia who are stable on haloperidol treatment. 
Background 
Schizophrenia involves a breakdown in the relationships between thought, emotion, and behaviour, leading to thought disorder, faulty perception, inappropriate actions and feelings, and social withdrawal. Haloperidol is one of the first drugs to be used in the treatment of schizophrenia. Haloperidol is known to be effective for treating the psychotic symptoms (such as delusions and hallucinations) of schizophrenia; it can also, however, have unpleasant side effects. The effects of stopping or withdrawing haloperidol treatment are not well researched. 
Searching for evidence 
We ran electronic searches of Cochrane Schizophrenia's trial register, most recently on 24 January 2019, for trials that randomised people with schizophrenia and are stable on haloperidol treatment to either discontinue taking haloperidol or to continue taking haloperidol. The review authors found and checked 54 records. 
Evidence found 
Five trials met the review requirements and provided usable data.
The evidence currently available from randomised controlled trials is of very low quality and suggests that haloperidol discontinuation is associated with poorer outcomes for people with schizophrenia in terms of their overall symptom improvement (global state). It also shows that people discontinuing haloperidol treatment are more likely to experience relapse (reoccurrence of symptoms) during the first year post treatment. There were no trials providing evidence on what happens after the first year. The number of participants leaving the study early (which can be an indication of satisfaction with treatment) was similar between the two treatments. 
The very low quality of the currently available evidence is due to methodological shortcomings of the included trials. This lowers our confidence in the reliability of results, and hampers their generalisability to real‐world situations. 
Conclusions 
It is disappointing that only a small number of studies were identified, and the size and quality of these studies were limited. The evidence available does not enable us to fully answer important questions regarding the effects of discontinuing haloperidol treatment. In particular there is no evidence available related to the side effects of haloperidol. New trials of better quality are needed. 
