Exercise‐based cardiac rehabilitation for heart failure
Background 
People with heart failure (HF) experience fatigue and shortness of breath. This negatively affects their activities of daily living and health‐related quality of life. They are at increased risk of hospital admission and death. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the scientific literature for randomised controlled trials (experiments in which two or more interventions, possibly including a control intervention or no intervention, are compared by randomly allocating participants to study groups). We looked at the effectiveness of exercise‐based rehabilitation compared with no exercise in adults (over 18 years of age) with heart failure. We considered HF due to reduced ejection fraction (HFrEF) (i.e. the chambers of the heart contract poorly, and, as a result, a smaller volume of blood is pumped around the body). We also considered HF due to preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF) (i.e. the chambers of the heart contract normally but do not relax efficiently, resulting in a smaller volume of blood pumped around the body). Our search is current to January 2018. 
Key results 
We found 44 studies that included 5783 people with HF, mainly HFrEF. The findings of this update are broadly consistent with those of the previous (2014) version of this Cochrane Review. They show important benefits of exercise‐based rehabilitation that include a probable reduction in the risk of overall hospital admissions in the short term, as well as the potential for reduction in heart failure admissions. The effect of exercise‐based rehabilitation on health‐related quality of life is uncertain due to very low‐quality evidence. Exercise‐based rehabilitation may make little or no difference in all‐cause mortality in trials with follow‐up less than 12 months. Further evidence is needed to better show the effects of exercise rehabilitation among people with HFpEF and the impact of alternative models of delivery, such as home‐based programmes. 
Quality of evidence 
Generally, recent trials have been better reported and are at low to moderate risk of bias. Using the GRADE method, we assessed the quality of evidence to range from high to very low across measured outcomes. Common reasons for downgrading outcomes include that results were inconsistent and/or imprecise. 
