Physical exercise training interventions for children and young adults during and after treatment for childhood cancer 
Background 
Childhood cancer is less common than adult cancer at a rate of 144 to 148 cases per one million children. An intensive treatment, including combined treatment modalities such as surgery, chemotherapy, radiotherapy, or a combination, is often needed for cure. These treatment modalities are frequently accompanied by side effects, such as feeling sick (nausea), serious infections, organ damage (heart, lung, kidney, liver), decreased bone mineral density (lower minerals, such as calcium, in the bones making the them more fragile), but also decreased muscle strength and physical fitness. 
In the past, children were advised to recover in bed, and to take as much rest as possible. Nowadays, it is considered that too much immobility may result in a further decrease of physical fitness and physical functioning. These side effects might be prevented or reduced by introducing a physical exercise training programme during, or shortly after, childhood cancer treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific databases for studies of comparing the effects of physical exercise training within the first five years following the diagnosis of childhood cancer compared with no training. Participants were under 19 years of age with any type of childhood cancer. The evidence is current to November 2014. 
Key results 
This review included five randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) and one clinical controlled trial (clinical studies where people are put into one of two or more treatment groups but this is not done in a random way) that evaluated the effects of a physical exercise training programme in children during cancer treatment. Childhood acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) is a cancer of the white blood cells and is the most common type of childhood cancer. For that reason, researchers often focus on this type of cancer since it will provide the largest number of patients in the shortest time‐span. In total, our analysis included 171 participants with ALL. The results of the review showed that there were some small benefits of physical exercise training on body composition (percentage of fat mass, muscles, and bones), flexibility, cardiorespiratory fitness (how effective your heart and lungs are at delivering oxygen to your body), muscle strength and quality of life, but the evidence was limited. This can be related to an unsuitable programmes for children with cancer, or due to poorly designed studies. More studies assessing the effects of exercise are needed in a variety of childhood cancer populations. Furthermore, the current findings do not provide enough evidence to identify an optimal physical exercise training programme for children with cancer, neither do they provide information on the characteristics of people who will, or will not, benefit from such a programme. These important issues still need to be clarified. 
