Antibiotic regimens for postpartum endometritis
Intravenous clindamycin plus gentamicin is more effective than other antibiotics or combinations of antibiotics for treatment of womb infection after childbirth. 
Inflammation of the lining of the womb (endometritis) can be caused by vaginal bacteria entering the womb (uterus) during childbirth and causing infection within six weeks of the birth (postpartum endometritis). Postpartum endometritis occurs after about 1% to 3% of vaginal births, and up to 27% of cesarean births. Prolonged rupture of the membranes (breaking the bag of water that surrounds the baby) and multiple vaginal examinations during birth also appear to increase the risk. 
Endometritis causes fever, tenderness in the pelvic region and unpleasant‐smelling vaginal discharge after the birth. It can have serious complications such as the formation of pelvic abscesses, blood clots, infection of the thin layer of tissue that covers the inside of the abdomen and abdominal organs (peritonitis), and whole body inflammation (sepsis). It is also an important cause of maternal deaths worldwide, although with the use of antibiotics, this is very rare in high‐income countries. 
There are many antibiotic treatments currently in use. This review compared different antibiotics, routes of administration and dosages for endometritis. The review identified 42 relevant randomised controlled studies, which are the most reliable type of medical trial for this type of investigation; 40 of these (involving 4240 women) contributed data for analysis. 
The results showed that the combination of intravenous gentamicin and clindamycin, and drugs with a broad range of activity against the relevant penicillin‐resistant bacterial strains, are the most effective for treating endometritis after childbirth. Women treated with clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside (gentamicin) showed fewer treatment failures than those treated with penicillin, but this difference was not evident when women treated with clindamycin plus an aminoglycoside were compared to women who received other antibiotic treatments. 
