Endoscopy for the treatment of acute gallstone pancreatitis
Acute pancreatitis refers to sudden inflammation of the pancreas associated with severe abdominal pain. The most common cause is transient blockage of the pancreatic or bile duct (or both) by gallstones. Most attacks of acute pancreatitis are mild, and most patients recover uneventfully with medical management. However, a small proportion of patients have a more severe course requiring intensive medical management. 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography (ERCP) combines endoscopy and X‐ray to treat problems of the bile and pancreatic ducts. With the patient under sedation, an endoscope is passed down the esophagus, through the stomach and into the duodenum where the opening of the bile and pancreatic ducts (ampulla) is located. A catheter is then inserted through the endoscope and through the ampulla into the bile duct. Contrast is injected into the bile duct, and X‐rays are taken to look for gallstones or blockage. If gallstones are found, they can be extracted with a basket or a balloon. However, this procedure is not without risks. It may be associated with bleeding, a hole in the bowel wall, infection of the bile duct, or aggravation of pancreatitis. 
In general, pancreatitis caused by gallstones can be managed with two treatment strategies. The first strategy involves the early use of conservative medical management such as nothing by mouth, intravenous fluid rehydration, antibiotics, and medications to relieve pain. If there are signs and symptoms suggestive of infection of the bile duct or persistent blockage of the bile duct by a stone, ERCP can be used for stone removal. However, if the patient's condition improves, then ERCP is not required. The second strategy involves the early use of ERCP (within 72 hours of admission) in addition to conservative medical management routinely in all patients. There has been much debate as to which strategy is better, especially in severe episodes of pancreatitis. 
