Is it better to do strabismus (squint) surgery before or after completing amblyopia (lazy eye) treatment? 
Background 
In normal development of vision, children are able to use the visual information from each of their two eyes to form a single image. When an infant or child's eyes are not properly aligned, this is called strabismus (also known as squint). With misalignment, the two eyes do not work together to relay visual information. The brain may suppress the image that comes from the squinting (weaker) eye in order to perceive a single image. When this happens, the weaker eye may develop into a lazy eye. This is a condition known as amblyopia. Lazy eye can be treated by covering the normal eye (called occlusion therapy) for varying periods of time. This is so that the child is forced to use and strengthen the weaker eye. Treatment continues until the weaker eye reaches normal vision or no change in vision is seen over several follow‐up visits. In the past, we have believed that good, long lasting results could be achieved by surgically aligning the eyes, but only if both eyes had equally good vision before the surgery. So, in children with both squint and lazy eye, this meant delaying squint surgery until the lazy eye had been corrected. However, we also know that for a child to develop three‐dimensional vision with a normal ability to recognize depth (depth perception), the eyes have to be aligned from a very early age. After the age of two to three years, proper three‐dimensional vision fails to develop completely. Although this is not necessarily a major handicap, it can be important because some professions require perfect depth perception. 
Review question 
So, there is a question over the timing of squint surgery ‐ Is it better to do surgery before completion of lazy eye treatment or after completion of lazy eye treatment? In the present review, we attempted to find evidence from studies that have compared these two approaches to try to resolve this question. 
Key results 
After conducting a broad search for studies, as of 24 July 2014, we found no randomized clinical studies that had addressed this question. 
Treatment of lazy eye cannot be ignored, while at the same time each child needs to be given the best possible chance for seeing three‐dimensional images. Each child with squint and lazy eye must be treated with both of these goals in mind. Further research is needed to determine the ideal timing for squint surgery in children with squint and lazy eye. 
