Head midline (central) position for preventing intraventricular haemorrhage (i.e. bleeding in the brain) in very preterm infants 
Review question 
Does head midline position reduce the risk of intraventricular haemorrhage (i.e. bleeding in the brain) and mortality in very preterm infants? 
Background 
Intraventricular haemorrhage (i.e. bleeding in the brain) occurs in 25% of very low birth weight infants and may be caused by multiple factors. Head position may affect how the blood circulates within the brain and thus may be involved in development of intraventricular haemorrhage. Turning the head toward one side may limit return of blood in the veins of the same side and may increase pressure and the amount of blood within the brain. It has been suggested that this might be avoided if the patient is in supine (lying on the back) midline (central) position, especially during the first two to three days of life, when risk of intraventricular haemorrhage is greatest. 
Study characteristics 
We included three small studies comparing supine midline head position versus supine head rotated 90°. The search is up to date as of 12 September 2019. 
Key results 
This review of trials found too little evidence to show positive or negative effects of supine (lying on the back) midline head position for prevention of intraventricular haemorrhage (i.e. bleeding within the brain) in very preterm neonates. Mortality was lower in the supine midline head position, due to one study which compared the effects of head tilting (elevating the head of the incubator upward). We found no trials that compared supine (lying on the back) versus prone (lying on the stomach) midline head position. 
Conclusions 
Though one of the studies reported lower mortality in the infants with head central position lying on the back and with bed tilting, results of this systematic review are consistent with beneficial or detrimental effects of a supine head midline position and do not provide a definitive answer to the review question. 
