Through the skin pinning for treating wrist fractures in adults
Background 
Broken wrists are fractures at the lower end of the radius, one of the two forearm bones. Typically in older people, these can occur when people put out a hand to break a fall. The broken bones are often pushed apart, resulting in a 'displaced' fracture. 
For most broken wrists, the bones can be moved back together (reduced) and held in place without an operation by a plaster cast for a few weeks. When fractures are unstable, the parts do not stay together. Another way of managing broken wrists is to hold the bones back in place with a surgical procedure, such as percutaneous pinning. This involves the insertion of pins or wires through the skin (percutaneous) to hold the bones in a proper position while they heal. In most pinning methods, pins or wires are used to fix the fragments together. In Kapandji pinning, the wires are placed to support the distal (lower end) fragment. 
Methods 
This is an update of a Cochrane review first published in 2007. We looked at the evidence from randomised controlled trials testing the use of percutaneous pinning or comparing aspects of pinning. Beforehand, we set out the main outcomes: patient‐reported function, numbers of participants with any complication and with complications requiring further treatment, grip strength and health‐related quality of life. We searched medical databases up to June 2019. 
Results of the search 
We included 26 randomised studies involving 1946 generally older and female adults with potentially unstable wrist fractures. The studies tested one of 10 comparisons and overall under‐reported outcomes. Below, we report only the main outcomes for which evidence was available. 
Key results 
Eleven trials compared percutaneous pinning with plaster cast immobilisation. We are uncertain whether pinning makes a difference to patient‐reported function at six weeks or six months (data from one study). There were no data on the numbers of participants who had any complication. Redisplacement of the fracture resulting in further treatment occurred on average in one of eight people who had cast alone (six studies). Of the surgery‐related complications, infection requiring antibiotics and sometimes early wire removal occurred on average in one of 13 people in the pinning group (seven studies). We are uncertain whether there is a difference between the two treatments in the risk of other complications. We are uncertain of the effects of pinning on grip strength at 12 months (four trials) or quality of life at four months (one study). 
Of the six studies comparing different techniques of pinning, one compared Kapandji pinning with an across‐fracture method. We are uncertain whether Kapandji pinning increases the risk of complications and of the finding of little between‐group difference in grip strength. 
Two studies compared biodegradable (dissolvable) pins versus metal wires, using two very different pinning techniques. Both found an excess of complications associated with the use of biodegradable material. 
