Can biomarkers improve predictions of the RCRI tool to predict heart‐related complications in patients undergoing surgery other than heart surgery? 
Background and review question  
Although patients undergo surgery to maintain or increase life expectancy or to improve quality of life, surgery is not without risks. Some patients will develop a heart‐related complication after surgery other than heart surgery, such as a heart infarction. Several tools try to predict someone's chance of developing a heart complication after surgery using information collected in the period before surgery. The Revised Cardiac Risk Index (RCRI) is such a tool that tries to estimate the chance of developing a heart complication during hospital admission in patients undergoing surgery other than heart surgery. It uses information on whether the patient has in the past experienced a heart infarction, heart failure and/or a stroke during his/her life, their use of insulin for the treatment of diabetes mellitus, their current renal (kidney) function and whether he/she will undergo high or non‐high risk surgery. The RCRI is commonly used by physicians, but the predictions are not always very accurate. Therefore, several researchers have attempted to improve these predictions by adding extra information to this tool. This information can be derived from so‐called biomarkers, which are, for example, measurements from blood, imaging techniques or other characteristics, such as age, smoking status or physical condition of the patient. 
The aim of this systematic review was to investigate whether the addition of such biomarkers to the RCRI improves predictions of heart‐related complications during hospitalisation in patients undergoing surgery other than heart surgery. In addition, we investigated whether biomarkers and other prediction tools resulted in better predictions of heart‐related complications during hospitalisation compared to the predictions of the RCRI in patients undergoing surgery other than heart surgery. 
