Adalimumab for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease? 
Crohn's disease (CD) is an inflammatory disorder that can affect the whole gastrointestinal tract from the mouth to the anus. Participants can experience a wide range of symptoms related to their disease, including abdominal pain, diarrhea, weight loss, and fever. Participants commonly have periods where their disease is more active (in other words, they experience symptoms), alternating with periods where their disease is inactive (no CD symptoms). When CD is inactive it is said to be in remission. With treatment, medications can control the inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract, for long‐term control of disease activity. 
What is adalimumab? 
Adalimumab is a biologic drug that blocks the development of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract. It belongs to a class of drugs know as tumour necrosis factor‐alpha (TNF‐α) antagonists. This medication is used in people who have CD, to reduce the amount of inflammation in the gastrointestinal tract or to prevent the inflammation from developing. 
What is the purpose of this study? 
The purpose of this study was to determine whether adalimumab is an effective medication for maintenance of remission in people with inactive CD, and whether it is associated with any harms or side effects. 
How was this study performed? 
We conducted a systematic review of current literature, to determine whether adalimumab therapy is effective in maintaining remission in CD. We ran electronic searches of several databases on 15 April 2019 and selected studies that met our inclusion criteria for further evaluation. We performed statistical analyses to determine whether adalimumab provides an overall benefit for maintenance of remission in CD. 
What were the results? 
We included six studies (1158 participants). All participants had moderate‐to‐severe CD that was in clinical remission. Four studies (1012 participants) compared adalimumab to placebo (a fake drug). Two studies (70 participants) compared adalimumab to active medication (azathioprine or mesalamine and 6‐mercaptopurine) in participants who had surgery for CD before study enrolment. 
Participants who received adalimumab were more likely to maintain clinical remission (no symptoms of CD) and endoscopic remission (no inflammation in their gastrointestinal tract) than those who received placebo (the fake drug). This was also true for participants who have previously been treated with other TNF‐α drugs (for example, infliximab), The overall certainty of the evidence for these outcomes ranged from moderate to high. We did not see an increased rate of side effects in participants who received adalimumab compared to those who received placebo. The most common side effects included headache, fatigue and infections, both urinary tract infections and upper respiratory tract infections. 
Two small studies looked at groups of patients who had recently required a narrowed area of their bowel to be removed by surgery. These participants were given adalimumab or azathioprine (an immunosuppressive drug), mesalamine (an anti‐inflammatory drug), or 6‐mercaptopurine (an immunosuppressive drug) within 45 days of surgery, to see if these drugs helped to prolong remission after surgery. Overall, adalimumab appeared to be more likely to maintain remission than azathioprine, mesalamine or 6‐mercaptopurine. Howvever, these were small studies with very low‐certainty evidence. These two studies did not report on side effects. 
