Can taking inhaled corticosteroids when needed for symptoms help people with mild asthma from becoming more unwell? 
Daily inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) are the mainstay of medications prescribed for people with asthma who have ongoing difficulty with their breathing. However, for those with a milder form of the condition, it is hard to predict when their asthma will get worse and so many people do not use their inhaler regularly. In this review, we compared the use of ICS used intermittently at the start of an asthma episode with placebo treatment in children and adults with mild asthma (two trials representing 385 participants) and in preschool children deemed to be at risk of developing asthma symptoms in the future (four trials representing 490 participants). 
We found taking ICS intermittently reduced the number of people with the need for oral steroids to manage their asthma symptoms. This was also associated with an improvement in lung tests in adults. While the greatest benefits were observed in adults who used a combined inhaler device when symptoms were developing, this was based on the results of just one published study. There were no increased safety concerns for ICS used in this way, although, there was not enough data to look for differences in hospitalisations, asthma symptoms or adverse events. 
These findings only represent a subset of all people with asthma. In particular, people with frequent or severe symptoms need to be taking their medication every day to reduce ongoing inflammation in the airways of the lungs. The results looked separately at preschool children as young as one year, when it is harder to predict if asthma will continue into older age. In addition, it is still uncertain which type and dose of ICS is most effective, as well as the best pattern or delivery for intermittent use of the medication. Nevertheless, combining an ICS with a reliever medicine may offer physicians and patients a new approach for milder symptoms if used appropriately. 
