Oral painkillers available without prescription for acute pain
Acute pain is often felt soon after injury, and is of short duration. Most people who have surgery have moderate or severe pain afterwards. Painkillers (analgesics) are tested in people with pain, often following the removal of wisdom teeth. Study participants have to have at least moderate pain levels and the pain is usually treated with painkillers taken by mouth. This overview is useful mainly for acute pain lasting only a few days or weeks, and not for chronic pain lasting for many months. For this overview we have not included information from reviews on migraine, tension headache, or period pain. 
In May 2015 we looked on pharmacy websites for the range of painkillers available in the UK that could be taken by mouth, and available without a doctor's prescription. We also looked at websites in Australia, Canada, and the USA. We then looked for Cochrane reviews reporting about how well these painkillers worked, and any side effects. We used high quality evidence from 10 Cochrane reviews supplemented with information from one non‐Cochrane analysis. 
The outcome we used for successful treatment was that of people with moderate or severe pain having at least 50% of the maximum possible pain relief, over a period of about six hours. This is an outcome that people with acute and chronic pain, and headache, think is useful to them. 
Combinations of ibuprofen plus paracetamol worked in 7 out of 10 (70%) people, and fast acting ibuprofen formulations 200 mg and 400 mg, ibuprofen 200 mg plus caffeine 100 mg, and diclofenac potassium 50 mg worked in over 5 out of 10 (50%) people. Dipyrone 500 mg, which is available OTC in many parts of the world, also worked in about 5 out of 10 people. Paracetamol plus aspirin at various doses worked in 1 out of 10 (11%) to 4 out of 10 (43%) people. An important finding was that low doses of some medicines in fast acting formulations were among the best. We could find no information on many of the commonly available combinations containing low doses of codeine. Taking painkillers with food may reduce how well they work. 
