Growth hormone therapy for people with thalassaemia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the effect of treating people with thalassaemia with growth hormones. 
Background 
Thalassaemia is an inherited blood disorder that causes anaemia of varying severity. People who have the more severe forms of thalassaemia need regular blood transfusions from early childhood resulting in excess iron accumulating in vital organs such as the heart, liver and hormone‐secreting glands (endocrine glands). One of the glands at risk is the pituitary gland which secretes growth hormone which in turn regulates the growth and function of the human body. If the production of growth hormone is disrupted by iron deposition, the affected children may not grow very tall. 
Short stature is very common amongst people with thalassaemia. It may be caused by various factors including problems with growth hormone or other hormones, insufficient blood transfusions or poor nutrition. Synthetic growth hormone is one way of treating short stature in thalassaemia, especially in children with defective growth hormone production. This usually involves an injection of growth hormone under the skin (subcutaneously) several days a week over a period of time. However, it is unclear whether the use of synthetic growth hormone provides any consistent or clear benefits to people with thalassaemia. 
Search date 
In this update, we included evidence current to 14 November 2019.
Study characteristics 
We found only one small trial for our review. It included 20 children with beta thalassaemia who were considerably shorter than they should be based on growth charts. Ten of the children were randomly selected to receive daily growth hormone treatment in addition to their usual (standard) treatment and the other 10 children just had their usual treatment. Investigators recorded the height of the children and did blood tests every three months. The trial was conducted over a one‐year period. 
Key results 
Height velocity is the rate at which a child grows taller and is calculated by measuring the difference in height over a period of time (usually measured as cm per year). In this review, the children who received growth hormone for one year had a higher height velocity (on average 2.28 cm per year more) compared to those who did not receive growth hormone. In other words, those given growth hormone grew modestly faster than those not on growth hormone. The height of a child may also be scored based on standard charts of the population (height standard deviation scores). Using this measurement, children treated with growth hormone had similar scores to those not on growth hormone at the end of one year. None of the 20 children suffered from any side effects. While there was no clear difference between groups in the oral glucose tolerance test at one year, those children on growth hormone therapy had higher fasting blood glucose levels, but these were still within the normal range. The trial did not provide information beyond the one‐year period, hence we do not know if the adult height of the children in the trial was affected by growth hormone therapy in any way. 
There were no trials in people with thalassaemia which examined the effects of growth hormone therapy over a longer period, at different dosages or in different age groups; neither were there any trials studying the effect of growth hormone therapy on adult height or general well‐being (quality of life). 
