Calcium, vitamin D or recombinant parathyroid hormone for managing post‐thyroidectomy hypoparathyroidism 
Review question 
What are the effects of calcium, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone in the management of low parathyroid hormone following thyroid surgery? 
Background 
The parathyroid glands are four small glands attached to the thyroid gland. They produce parathyroid hormone which regulates blood calcium levels. These glands may be accidentally damaged during surgery, for example after removal of the thyroid gland. The consequence of this is low blood calcium levels. The damage to the parathyroid glands may be temporary or long term. The use of calcium and vitamin D supplements to normalise the blood calcium level is the mainstay of treatment in these people but the precise nature, dose and duration of these treatments vary across centres. Recent studies suggest the use of laboratory‐engineered (recombinant) parathyroid hormone as a treatment option. Current guidelines on the management of post‐thyroidectomy hypoparathyroidism are based on low‐quality evidence. We aimed to review high‐quality research evaluating the use of calcium, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone in this condition. In addition, we aimed to highlight gaps in the current literature and to stimulate further clinical studies in this field. 
Study characteristics 
We found no relevant randomised controlled trials (clinical trials where people are randomly allocated to one of two or more treatment groups) or controlled clinical trials that evaluated the use of calcium, vitamin D supplements and parathyroid hormone in this condition. 
This evidence is up to date as of 17 December 2018.
Key results 
Lack of high‐quality evidence on the use of calcium, vitamin D and parathyroid hormone in the management of low parathyroid hormone after thyroid surgery. 
Certainty of the evidence 
We could not critically appraise the certainty of the evidence because we did not identify studies matching our inclusion criteria. 
