Physical activity interventions for the physical and mental health of people during and after treatment for bowel cancer 
Background 
Bowel cancer is the third most common cancer diagnosed worldwide. Being diagnosed and receiving treatment for bowel cancer can have a negative impact on a person's physical and mental health. Side effects include reduced fitness levels and increased tiredness. People are also at risk of their cancer returning after treatment and this can cause fear and worry. Research on physical activity programmes in other cancer populations has shown benefits in reducing side effects of treatment. Given that people who are active have a lower chance of developing bowel cancer, physical activity may be beneficial for those with a bowel cancer diagnosis, but the research is not yet clear. 
Review question 
This review was undertaken to find out whether physical activity programmes are beneficial for the physical and mental health of people with bowel cancer and whether they are safe. 
Key results We found 16 studies that included 992 participants, our evidence is current to June 2019. Participants were randomly assigned to receive a physical activity programme or usual care (no physical activity programme). In the included studies, we are unsure whether physical activity programmes improve physical function and we found no effect of physical activity programmes compared to usual care on disease‐related mental health. No serious adverse events occurred in the eight studies that looked at adverse events. There was inconsistency in reporting and measurement of adverse events. We do not know whether physical activity improves survival at any time point as no studies looked at this. The included studies suggest physical activity programmes may increase aerobic fitness, health‐related quality of life (general well‐being) and reduce fatigue (tiredness) in the short term. We are unsure of the long‐term effects of physical activity interventions on physical function, disease‐related mental health, adverse events, physical fitness, fatigue (tiredness), weight, health‐related quality of life (general well‐being) and physical activity levels because no studies assessed this. 
