Routine ultrasound in late pregnancy (after 24 weeks' gestation) to assess the effects on the infant and maternal outcomes 
Ultrasound can be used as a clinical diagnostic tool in late pregnancy to assess the baby's condition when there are complications, or to detect problems which may not otherwise be apparent. If such problems are identified this may lead to changes in care and an improved outcome for babies. Carrying out scans on all women is however controversial. Screening all women may mean that the number of interventions is increased without benefit to mothers or babies. Although popular, women may not fully understand the purpose of their scan and may be either falsely reassured, or unprepared for adverse findings. Existing evidence shows that routine ultrasound, after 24 weeks' gestation, in low‐risk or unselected women does not provide any benefit for the mother or her baby. Thirteen studies involving 34,980 women who were randomly selected to screening or a control group (no or selective ultrasound, or ultrasound with concealed results) contributed to the review. The quality of trials was satisfactory. There were no differences between groups in the rates of women having additional scans, antenatal admissions, preterm delivery less than 37 weeks, induction of labour, instrumental deliveries or caesarean section. Babies’ birthweight, condition at birth, interventions such as resuscitation, and admission to special care were similar between groups. Infant survival, with or without congenital abnormalities, was no different with and without routine ultrasound screening in late pregnancy. None of the trials reported on the effect of routine ultrasound in late pregnancy on preterm birth less than 34 weeks, maternal psychology or mental development of babies when two years old. 
The ultrasound scan protocols in each trial varied, as did the reasons for ultrasound scans after 24 weeks' gestation. The influence of first and second trimester ultrasounds is difficult to disentangle, and assessment of most measures at late pregnancy is based on gestational reference data, which rely on accurate gestational dating in early pregnancy. Trials were undertaken over a period of time covering early introduction into clinical practice to widespread use, during which time how to assess fetal size and well being ultrasonographically were still being debated. As ultrasound technology continues to advance and become more accessible, it is important to maintain a clear idea of its relevance. Ultrasound, being a clinical investigation, may be used to detect abnormality without the impact of such detection on clinical outcomes being full assessed. Exposure of the expectant mother to uncertainty and possible anxiety about the health of her baby has implications that may be far reaching. In addition, little is known about how the baby that was compromised in the uterus develops after birth and in the first years of life. 
