How often should you see your dentist for a check‐up?
Why have a dental check‐up? 
A dental check‐up helps to keep your mouth healthy and lets your dentist see if you have any dental problems. It allows your dentist to deal with any problems early, or even better, to prevent problems from developing. Leaving problems untreated may make them harder to treat in the future. 
What happens in a check‐up? 
At each check‐up your dentist will usually:
· examine your teeth, gums and mouth;
· ask about your general health and if you have had any problems with your teeth, mouth or gums since your last check‐up; 
· advise you about tooth‐cleaning habits, and your diet, smoking and alcohol use.
· if appropriate, recommend treatment needed for any dental problems.
After your check‐up, the dentist will recommend a date for your next check‐up. Traditionally, check‑ups are recommended every six months. However, some people are at higher risk of developing dental problems and may need more frequent check‐ups, while others may not need check‐ups so often. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
Having check‐ups every six months might help to keep your mouth healthy and avoid dental problems in future, but could also lead to unnecessary dental treatments. However, having check‐ups less often might let dental problems get worse and lead to difficult and expensive treatment and care. 
We wanted to identify the best time interval to have between dental check‐ups.
What did we do? 
We searched for randomised controlled studies in which people were assigned at random to different time intervals between check‐ups. Randomised controlled studies usually give the most reliable evidence. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to 17 January 2020. 
What we found 
We found two studies with 1736 people who had regular dental check‐ups. One study was conducted in a public dental clinic in Norway in children and adults aged under 20 years. It compared 12‐monthly and 24‐monthly check‐ups, and measured results after two years. 
The other study was in adults at 51 dental practices in the UK. It compared six‐monthly, 24‑monthly and risk‐based check‐ups (where time between check‐ups was set by dentists and depended on an individual's risk of dental disease), and measured results after four years. 
The studies looked at how different intervals between check‐ups affected:
· how many people had tooth decay;
· how many tooth surfaces were affected by decay;
· gum disease (percentage of bleeding sites in the gums); and
· quality of life related to having healthy teeth and gums.
No studies measured other potential unwanted effects.
What are the results of our review? 
In adults, there was little to no difference between six‐monthly and risk‐based check‐ups in tooth decay (number of tooth surfaces affected), gum disease and quality of life after four years; and probably little to no difference in how many people had moderate‐to‐extensive tooth decay. 
There was probably little to no difference between 24‐monthly and six‐monthly or risk‐based check‐ups in tooth decay (number of people and number of tooth surfaces affected), gum disease or well‑being, and may be little to no difference in how many people had moderate‐to‐extensive tooth decay. 
We did not find enough reliable evidence about the effects of 12‐monthly and 24‐monthly check‐ups in children and adolescents after two years. This was because of problems with the way that the study was conducted. 
How reliable are these results? 
We are confident that there is little to no difference between six‑monthly and risk‑based check‐ups in adults for number of tooth surfaces with decay, gum disease and quality of life. 
We are moderately confident there is little to no difference between 24‐monthly check‐ups and six‐monthly or risk‐based check‐ups in number of tooth surfaces with decay, gum disease and quality of life. 
