Propionyl‐L‐carnitine for intermittent claudication
Background 
Peripheral arterial disease (PAD), most often due to systemic atherosclerosis, affects 4% to 12% of the population aged 55 to 70 years and up to 20% of people over 70 years of age. Peripheral arterial disease tends to be more common in men overall, but woman have more asymptomatic PAD. Approximately 10% to 35% of those affected with PAD report intermittent claudication. Intermittent claudication is characterized by pain in the legs or buttocks that occurs with exercise and subsides with rest. Compared with age‐matched controls, people with intermittent claudication have a six‐fold increased risk of cardiovascular mortality. Treatment should include all measures of prevention for cardiovascular disease, which include cessation of smoking, exercise, and treatment for hypertension, diabetes, and cholesterol. Antiplatelet medications and statins are given to reduce the risk of cerebrovascular and coronary events. 
To improve symptoms of claudication, regular (supervised) exercise and smoking cessation are the mainstay in the management of intermittent claudication. Drug treatments can include, besides antiplatelets and lipid‐lowering agents, vasoactive agents to improve blood flow, reduce pain, and improve walking distance. A minority of people with intermittent claudication undergo endovascular intervention or vascular surgery. Many pharmacological agents have been advocated for treating intermittent claudication, but none have gained worldwide acceptance. Few show some mild to moderate improvement in walking performance and are prudently proposed in the guidelines. Propionyl‐L‐carnitine (PLC) is a drug that may alleviate symptoms of PAD through a metabolic pathway, thereby improving exercise performance. 
Key results 
A search for relevant articles on propionyl‐L‐carnitine for treatment of intermittent claudication identified 12 relevant trials that matched our inclusion criteria (current until July 2021). In 11 studies, participants received either 1 gram to 2 grams oral PLC (9 studies) or intravenous propionyl‐L‐carnitine (3 studies) per day or placebo. One study compared propionyl‐L‐carnitine with L‐carnitine. Studies comparing PLC against other interventions such as exercise, other medication, endovascular intervention, or vascular surgery were not identified. 
