Comparing different types of chemotherapy for treatment of older people with advanced lung cancer 
Background 
Worldwide, lung cancer is responsible for most cases of cancer‐related death among individuals of both sexes. For adult patients with advanced disease, therapy regimens based on the combination of cisplatin or carboplatin with a different agent are considered the standard of care. However, few elderly patients have been included in relevant trials for chemotherapy, raising concerns about the safety and efficacy of such regimens, which are considered the standard of care for adult patients. As a consequence, older patients are often treated with less intense chemotherapy regimens. 
Review objectives 
Our objectives were to investigate the effects of different chemotherapy regimens (non‐platinum single‐agent, non‐platinum combination, and platinum combination) on survival, quality of life, tumor shrinkage, and toxicity in older people with advanced lung cancer. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a systematic search (up to 31 October 2014) for trials that compared non‐platinum single‐agent therapy versus non‐platinum combination therapy or non‐platinum combination therapy versus platinum combination therapy in patients over 70 years of age who have advanced non‐small cell lung cancer. We included in the review a total of 51 studies (seven studies in the non‐platinum single‐agent therapy vs non‐platinum combination therapy group and 44 studies in the non‐platinum combination therapy vs platinum combination therapy group); however, we were able to include only 19 studies in the meta‐analysis. 
Key results 
Non‐platinum single‐agent versus non‐platinum combination therapy 
We analyzed five trials involving 1294 participants. We found that these regimens are equally effective for survival. However, combinations of non‐platinum agents are associated with a greater chance of decreasing tumor size. We also found that these regimens are similar regarding chance of major toxicity such as low hemoglobin levels, platelets, and white cell counts (neutrophils). Only two trials assessed the impact of treatment on quality of life, and we were not able to combine these results because of lack of information. 
Non‐platinum therapy versus platinum combination therapy 
We analyzed 14 trials involving 1705 elderly participants. We found that platinum therapy is associated with longer survival and greater chance of decreasing tumor size among elderly patients. However, we found that these regimens are more toxic than those based on non‐platinum agents and provide greater risk of low hemoglobin and platelet levels, fatigue, nausea or vomiting, and numbness or tingling in the hands and feet. Only five trials assessed the impact of treatment on quality of life, and we were not able to combine these results because of lack of information. 
Quality of evidence 
Non‐platinum single‐agent versus non‐platinum combination therapy 
We downgraded to low the quality of evidence on survival because different results were reported across studies, and because three included trials were stopped early, which also influenced the quality of evidence for chance of decreasing tumor size and low hemoglobin, platelet, and white cell counts. For theses outcomes, issues with study design were also a matter of concern, leading to low quality of evidence. 
Non‐platinum combination versus platinum combination therapy 
We downgraded to moderate the quality of evidence on the benefit of platinum combination therapy for survival based on inclusion of nine trials that were not specifically designed for older patients. Other issues with study design influenced the quality of evidence on interval to tumor growth after start of treatment, rate of tumor shrinkage, and toxicity. Regarding low hemoglobin and platelet levels, we further reduced the quality of evidence to low because of imprecision of reported results. We recognize that other limitations such as age alone might not be adequate criteria for selection of the best treatment. Older people can be very different from one another in terms of other health conditions associated with aging. Older patients included in randomized trials were selected through strict eligibility criteria that excluded most patients with other health problems. Therefore, we believe that these results must be interpreted with clinical judgement applied regarding selection of an appropriate treatment regimen. 
