Medicine‐free treatment for stuttering in children aged six years and younger
What was the aim of this review? 
The aim of this review was to find out if medicine‐free treatment for stuttering can improve speech fluency, children's communication attitudes and the impact on the child's quality of life, and potential harmful effects in children aged six years and younger, both in the short‐ and long‐term. We collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found four studies. 
Key messages 
The Lidcombe Program may result in lower stuttering frequency and higher speech efficiency (i.e. number of words or syllables spoken per minute) for young children after receiving the amount of treatment included in the studies. We do not yet know the impact of the programme delivered in its entirety, as no study reported outcomes for children who had completed the programme, which is designed to last for one to two years. 
Only one study reported how treatment worked in the long run, but the effect of treatment could not be summarized, as the results for most children in the control group were missing. 
We require more high‐quality studies assessing stuttering treatments for young children, including studies that report on a broader range of outcomes and that assess treatments other than the Lidcombe Program. 
What did the review study? 
Stuttering, or stammering as it is sometimes called, is a common communication disorder, that usually begins when children are between two and four years of age. Stuttering can be characterized by repetitions of individual speech sounds, parts of words or whole words; involuntary lengthening of speech sounds; or speech blockages. Moments of stuttering can also be accompanied by visible tension in the speaker's face or voice, eye blinks or head nods. Stuttering can have a negative effect on how people feel about themselves and how they live their lives. Therefore, it is important to identify effective treatments for stuttering in young children to reduce the chance that they will experience these negative effects. 
What were the main results of the review?  
We found four studies, all of which compared young children who received the Lidcombe Program to young children on a wait‐list. In three studies, the children on the wait‐list did not receive any treatment until after the study was finished. In the fourth, the children on the wait‐list could receive treatment from their local speech language therapist (SLT) if they wanted to. At the end of the study, parents of seven children (35%) in the control group reported their child had received some treatment, either the Lidcombe Program or another treatment programme called "Easy Does It", while on the wait‐list. 
There were 151 children aged between two and six years in the four studies. In the Lidcombe Program, an SLT conducted clinic visits with the child and parent in person in a clinic or spoke to them by telephone. During these visits, parents were taught to conduct treatment at home during 10‐ to 15‐minute daily practice sessions. Two studies were conducted in Australia, one in New Zealand and one in Germany. Two studies were conducted for nine months, one for 16 weeks and one for 12 weeks. One study was partially funded by the Rotary Club, Wiesbaden, Germany; and one was funded by the National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia. One study did not report any funding sources and another reported that they did not receive any funding for the trial. 
