High initial concentration versus low initial concentration sevoflurane for inhalational induction of anaesthesia 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence from randomized controlled trials comparing high initial concentrations of sevoflurane with low initial concentrations to see whether the evidence supports use of high initial concentrations to reduce induction times and complications for inhalational induction of anaesthesia. This update of a review first published in 2013 is current to February 2016. 
Background 
General anaesthesia for surgery can be induced by having patients breathe a mixture of sevoflurane (a sweet‐smelling inhaled anaesthetic vapour or drug) and oxygen through a mask. This technique has been reported to be safe, reliable and well accepted by patients. The initial concentration of sevoflurane used for induction can be low or high. The low initial concentration technique involves administering a low concentration of sevoflurane (less than 4%), then gradually increasing the concentration until the patient is anaesthetized. The high initial concentration technique involves administering high concentrations of sevoflurane (from 4% to 8%) from the beginning, then continuing until the patient is anaesthetized. Immediately following loss of consciousness and before anaesthesia is deep enough to allow surgery, patients can go through a stage where they cough, their breathing and heart rate become irregular and they may hold their breath and make uncontrolled movements. A high concentration might shorten this stage. 
Study characteristics 
We included in our review 11 randomized controlled trials (829 participants). These trials were conducted between 1997 and 2014 and differed with regard to participants (adults vs children), concentrations of sevoflurane used, addition of nitrous oxide and opioids and other factors. Some elements of the methods suggested low‐quality evidence would be obtained. The studies could not always be combined, and study results cannot be stated with certainty. 
Key results 
The high initial concentration technique shortened induction time (six studies, 443 participants, low‐quality evidence) and led to similar rates of cough (eight studies, 589 participants, low‐quality evidence), sudden sustained closure of the vocal cords that prevented breathing (seven studies, 588 participants, low‐quality evidence), breath holding (five studies, 389 participants, low‐quality evidence), sudden movements (five studies, 445 participants, low‐quality evidence) and slow heart rate (three studies, 199 participants, low‐quality evidence). The high initial concentration technique showed greater suspension of breathing when compared with the low initial concentration technique (two studies, 160 participants, low‐quality evidence). 
