Stepping down the dose of inhaled corticosteroids for adults with asthma
Background 
Asthma is a condition of the airways affecting more than 300 million adults and children worldwide. National and international guidelines recommend increasing the dose of inhaled corticosteroids (ICS) in steps to gain control of symptoms at the lowest possible dose because long‐term use of higher doses of ICS carries a risk of side effects. For patients whose asthma symptoms are controlled on moderate or higher doses of ICS, it may be possible to reduce the dose of ICS (step down) without losing control of asthma symptoms. 
Review question 
We searched for studies (minimum length 12 weeks) in people with well‐controlled asthma that compared the effect of reducing the dose of ICS versus maintaining the dose of ICS. Studies had to include adults aged 18 years or older whose asthma was well controlled on a medium dose of ICS for a minimum of three months. We were also interested in determining whether taking another type of inhaled asthma medication (long‐acting beta agonists ‐ LABAs) would influence the results. Two review authors screened the search results independently of each other and determined which studies were relevant for inclusion in this review. The relevant information from these studies was also added to this review by two review authors independently. 
Results 
We found six studies that were relevant to our review. Overall, we found no differences between groups (reduced ICS dose vs maintained ICS dose) in terms of asthma attacks, asthma control, quality of life or side effects. Taking or not taking LABA at the same time did not appear to affect the results. However, we assessed the quality of the evidence as low or very low because of the low number of studies found and problems with how the studies were reported. This means that we cannot be certain of our findings; additional studies are needed to explore this topic. 
Conclusions 
In conclusion, current evidence is not good enough to show whether patients can reduce their ICS dose without losing control of their asthma. It is also not clear whether stepping down the dose of ICS would reduce the occurrence of side effects. Additional studies are needed to answer this question. 
