Vaginal cleansing with antiseptic solution before cesarean delivery to reduce infections after surgery 
We set out to determine from randomized controlled trials if cleansing the vagina with an antiseptic solution before a cesarean delivery safely decreases the risk of maternal infections. 
What is the issue? 
Cleansing the vagina before the cesarean delivery can reduce the number of bacteria that are naturally present in the vagina. These bacteria in the vagina and cervix can move up into the uterus during the surgical procedure and cause infection in the lining of the uterus and in the surgical wound. Antibiotics are routinely given before the surgery to reduce the risk of infections, but some women still suffer from these complications. Some antibiotics do not always eradicate all bacteria, and antibiotic resistant bacteria may be present. Vaginal preparation may not be included in the care provided to women to reduce infection following surgery. Vaginal cleansing solutions, such as chlorhexidine and povidone‐iodine are inexpensive, and have very few side effects. 
Why is this important? 
Cesarean deliveries are common, with almost one in three babies born by cesarean in some countries such as the USA. It is not uncommon for women having a cesarean delivery to develop an infection of the uterus (endometritis) or a problem with their skin incision. The risk of infection is greater if a woman’s waters have broken or she is in labor before the cesarean section. These complications may slow a woman’s recovery from the surgery and can affect her ability to take care of her baby. This is a Cochrane Review first published in 2010 and updated in 2012, 2014, and in 2017. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for new evidence on 7 July 2019. In this update, we have included 21 randomized controlled studies, involving a total of 7038 women undergoing cesarean section. The studies took place in 10 countries (Saudi Arabia, Pakistan, Iran, Thailand, Turkey, USA, Egypt, UK, Kenya and India). The control group had no vaginal preparation in 18 studies and in three studies participants used a saline vaginal preparation. We did not include trials that did not give antibiotics before or during the surgery, or where women received vaginal preparation during labor. Seventeen studies used povidone‐iodine for vaginal cleansing, three chlorhexidine, and one benzalkonium chloride. 
