What is the diagnostic accuracy of teledermatology for the diagnosis of skin cancer in adults? 
Why is improving the diagnosis of skin cancer important? 
There are different types of skin cancer. Melanoma is one of the most dangerous forms and it is important to identify it early so that it can be removed. If it is not recognised when first brought to the attention of doctors (also known as a false‐negative test result) treatment can be delayed resulting in the melanoma spreading to other organs in the body and possibly causing early death. Cutaneous squamous cell carcinoma (cSCC) and basal cell carcinoma (BCC) are usually localised skin cancers, although cSCC can spread to other parts of the body and BCC can cause disfigurement if not recognised early. Calling something a skin cancer when it is not really a skin cancer (a false‐positive result) may result in unnecessary surgery and other investigations that can cause stress and worry to the patient. Making the correct diagnosis is important. Mistaking one skin cancer for another can lead to the wrong treatment being used or lead to a delay in effective treatment. 
What is the aim of the review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether teledermatology is accurate enough to identify which people with skin lesions need to be referred to see a specialist dermatologist (a doctor concerned with disease of the skin) and who can be safely reassured that their lesion (damage or change of the skin) is not malignant. We included 22 studies to answer this question. 
What was studied in the review? 
Teledermatology means sending pictures of skin lesions or rashes to a specialist for advice on diagnosis or management. It is a way for primary care doctors (general practitioners (GPs)) to get an opinion from a specialist dermatologist without having to refer patients through the normal referral pathway. Teledermatology can involve sending photographs or magnified images of a skin lesion taken with a special camera (dermatoscope) to a skin specialist to look at or it might involve immediate discussion about a skin lesion between a GP and a skin specialist using videoconferencing. 
