Vascular access specialist teams for insertion of and prevention of vascular access device failure 
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence concerning the effectiveness of vascular access specialist teams (VAST) compared with generalist models in terms of vascular access device insertion success, device failure, and cost‐effectiveness. 
We did not find any eligible studies for our review.
Background 
We describe a VAST as the grouping of healthcare personnel who have advanced knowledge and skills in the assessment, insertion, care, and management of vascular access devices, such as infusion/intravenous, intravenous therapy teams, as well as individual vascular access specialists (nurse, doctor, therapist, technician, and physician assistant). 
Our goal was to evaluate if the VAST approach is superior to a generalist approach.
We define a generalist model or approach as a larger groups of nurses, doctors, or other designated healthcare professionals in the healthcare facility who have less advanced skills and knowledge in inserting and managing vascular access devices. 
We define a vascular access device (VAD) as a catheter (thin tube) inserted into veins or ports that can be implanted under the skin, allowing fluids and medicines to be delivered into veins. Catheters inserted into arteries can be used to monitor therapy. The most common VAD, the peripheral intravenous catheter (PIVC), may remain in place for many days before removal. Implanted VADs or catheters in central veins can usually remain for many weeks, months, and in some cases, particularly with ports, years. Vascular access devices are used for giving fluids (infusion therapy) and intravenous (injected into a vein) medicines, taking blood samples, and invasive monitoring, and are often crucial in providing treatment and care. The use of VADs and infusion therapy extends across almost all medical, surgical, and critical care specialties, and occurs in hospital, long‐term care, and home care settings. 
There are several risks related to the insertion of a VAD and its ongoing care that can cause the device to fail (to become no longer suitable for care). One significant postinsertion complication includes catheter‐related venous thrombosis (clot formation). People with cancer or who are critically ill and may require additional medical interventions to treat thrombosis are particularly at risk for this complication. A risk of infusion‐related inflammation of the vein (phlebitis or thrombophlebitis) exists for the PIVC when the cannulated vein becomes painful with other potential signs such as a red appearance at the insertion site. Infection risks such as catheter‐related bloodstream infections are associated with all VADs; preventing such occurrences is a healthcare priority. Catheter‐related bloodstream infections are associated with longer hospital stay, serious illness, death, and increased health service costs. 
