Olanzapine for the prevention and treatment of cancer‐related nausea and vomiting in adults 
Background 
Olanzapine has been studied to see if it might work as an antisickness (antiemetic) medication and if it is safe. People with cancer may commonly experience distressing nausea and vomiting, despite the current medications available, before, during, and after chemotherapy or radiotherapy, and during a palliative phase of illness (when the aim of treatment is symptom relief rather than cure). Some people still experience problematic nausea and vomiting with chemotherapy even when they are given standard antisickness medication. 
Recently research studies have focused on preventing and treating chemotherapy‐induced nausea and vomiting. 
Review question 
We investigated the benefits and harms of using olanzapine for preventing and treating nausea and vomiting in adults with cancer. 
Search date 
We searched for studies in September 2017.
Study characteristics 
We included 14 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) because they provide the most reliable evidence, with 1917 participants in total, from all around the world that investigated the use of oral olanzapine in treating or preventing nausea and vomiting. 
All the included studies used olanzapine in combination with other medications, usually antiemetics (antisickness medications). Nine studies compared olanzapine to placebo (a substance with no therapeutic effect) or no treatment. Other studies compared olanzapine to other antiemetics. 
Were participants receiving anticancer treatments? 
Thirteen RCTs included participants receiving chemotherapy. Chemotherapy is graded according to how likely it is to provoke nausea and vomiting (i.e. how emetogenic it is). In six RCTs participants received highly emetogenic chemotherapy (HEC) or moderately emetogenic chemotherapy (MEC). In six RCTs participants only received HEC. One RCT did not state whether participants received HEC or MEC. 
No RCTs included participants receiving radiotherapy alone. One trial included participants who were receiving both chemotherapy and radiotherapy treatment for their cancer. One trial included participants who were not receiving either chemotherapy or radiotherapy. 
Study funding sources 
No included RCTs reported receiving funds from pharmaceutical companies. Five studies stated that they had received funding from cancer foundations, endowments, or universities. Nine studies made no declaration regarding funding. 
Key results 
Fifty percent of people who received olanzapine as well as standard treatment probably would not be nauseous or vomit during chemotherapy compared to just 25% of those who received standard treatment. Olanzapine probably makes unwanted sleepiness more likely. We are uncertain if using 5 mg olanzapine a day instead of 10 mg olanzapine a day reduces the likelihood of being sleepy without reducing the antisickness benefit. We are not certain about the risk of experiencing other side effects or serious side effects, so it is important to be aware that these might happen. There was some suggestion that people who take olanzapine with standard treatment might have an improved quality of life compared to those who used standard treatment alone, but we were very uncertain of this because we were unable to analyse the data. There was not enough evidence to say whether people prefer to use olanzapine compared to not taking it. 
There is not enough evidence to say whether olanzapine is as good as, worse or better than other antisickness medications currently in use. 
Quality of the evidence 
We rated the quality of the evidence from studies using four levels: very low, low, moderate, or high. 'Very low‐quality evidence' means that we are very uncertain about the results. 'High‐quality evidence' means that we are very confident in the results. We found moderate‐quality evidence that olanzapine reduces overall nausea and vomiting but that it also increases unwanted sleepiness when compared to placebo or no treatment. There was moderate‐quality evidence for patient preference and low‐quality evidence for adverse events. The remaining evidence was of low‐ or very‐low quality. 
