Anticoagulant drugs for the prevention of recurrent miscarriage in women with antiphospholipid antibodies 
We set out to determine if antithrombotic drugs improve pregnancy outcomes for women with persistent antiphospholipid antibody levels who have had a number of miscarriages. 
What is the issue? 
Phospholipid molecules help form the cell membranes and are critical to a cell's ability to function. The immune system can develop antibodies that are directed against proteins attached to the phospholipids. Different types of antiphospholipid antibodies exist. Presence of these antibodies can lead to the development of blood clots in either veins or arteries, but also repeated pregnancy losses. 
Why is this important? 
Antiphospholipid antibodies are associated with a higher risk of pregnancy complications, including the risk of pregnancy loss. Use of antithrombotic drugs during pregnancy may help prevent pregnancy loss for women who have had recurrent miscarriages. Aspirin is an anti‐inflammatory drug that reduces platelet aggregation and blood clotting. Heparin is a potent anticoagulant that prevents blood clot formation. Aspirin and heparin may reduce the risk of miscarriage associated with antiphospholipid antibodies. Low‐molecular‐weight heparin is easier to use and causes less side effects for the mother than undivided or unfractionated heparin. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the medical literature for evidence from randomised controlled trials up to June 2019. We identified 11 studies involving 1672 women who had previously experienced at least two pregnancy losses and had persistent antiphospholipid antibodies in their blood. Most studies started eligible women on aspirin before conception with women randomly assigned to receive additional heparin, or not, once pregnancy was confirmed. The dose and type of heparin varied among studies, as did timing for when treatment was started and the length of time women were treated. 
The evidence we identified is low certainty due to the small numbers of women in the studies and to the risk of bias in the studies. 
Compared to placebo, we are very uncertain if aspirin has any effect on live birth, pre‐eclampsia, pregnancy loss, preterm delivery of a live infant, intrauterine growth restriction or adverse events in the child or in the mother. Venous thromboembolism and arterial thromboembolism were not reported in the studies investigating aspirin compared with placebo. 
Heparin plus aspirin may increase the number of live births and may reduce the risk of pregnancy loss. 
Compared with aspirin alone, we are uncertain if heparin plus aspirin has any effect on the risk of pre‐eclampsia, preterm delivery of a live infant, intrauterine growth restriction, or bleeding in the mother. 
