Endometrial injection of embryo culture supernatant for subfertile women in assisted reproduction 
Review question: 
Researchers in the Cochrane Collaboration reviewed the evidence about the effectiveness and safety of endometrial injection of embryo culture supernatant before embryo transfer in women undergoing assisted reproduction. 
Background: 
Assisted reproduction techniques (ART) includes techniques used for treating subfertility, and in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) are the most common. Despite both clinical and laboratory efforts and improvements in the success of these treatments, pregnancy rates remain relatively low. In IVF, eggs are retrieved from a woman's ovaries and placed in a dish with sperm from her partner or from a donor, in a liquid called embryo culture medium. In ICSI, a single sperm cell is injected into a woman's egg, and then the egg goes into the culture medium. 
Various factors allow a communication of embryo with maternal tissues. These could affect the receptivity of the lining of the womb (endometrium). Researchers have proposed that injecting the upper layer of the embryo culture's liquid, called supernatant, into the womb before embryo transfer, might stimulate the lining of the womb and facilitate the embryo's attachment to it. This could improve live birth rates and other ART outcomes. 
Although injection before embryo transfer seems to be an encouraging procedure, its effectiveness and safety remain controversial, as there is not much available evidence about outcomes. In this Cochrane Review, we summarised the relevant evidence. We aimed for our conclusions to be as robust as possible, and also to identify any limitations to the evidence. 
Study characteristics: 
In consultation with the Cochrane Gynaecology and Fertility Group Information Specialist, we performed a comprehensive literature search of the standard medical databases, from each databases' earliest records to December 2019. We searched for all randomised controlled trials (RCTs) (studies in which participants are assigned to a treatment group using a random method) that investigated the effectiveness of endometrial injection of embryo culture supernatant before embryo transfer, during a cycle with IVF or ICSI, versus any other intervention or no intervention (usual care). IVF and ICSI are the two major modalities of ART. We searched for studies irrespective of language and country of origin. Two review authors independently selected and evaluated studies, extracted data, and attempted to contact the authors of studies for which data were missing. Five studies comprising 526 women met our review's inclusion criteria. We identified no ongoing studies. 
Key results:  
We are uncertain whether the routine use of endometrial injection of embryo culture supernatant before embryo transfer has a positive effect in women undergoing assisted reproduction, compared to usual care, for improving both live birth or ongoing pregnancy and miscarriage rates. We found that the live birth or ongoing pregnancy rate with usual care was 42%, but it varied between 35% and 55% when supernatant was injected. The risk of miscarriage was found to be 9% for usual care, and between 4% and 15% with the injection. We found similar conclusions for the rates of clinical pregnancy, multiple pregnancy and ectopic pregnancy, as well as for preterm delivery and foetal abnormalities. No single outcome measure in our review's included RCTs demonstrated a clear benefit with its use. There is also insufficient evidence to support the routine use of endometrial injection of embryo culture supernatant compared to culture media before embryo transfer. 
