Local cooling for relieving pain from perineal trauma sustained during childbirth
We looked for evidence from randomised controlled trials on how effective localised cooling treatments are for reducing pain from damage to the area between the vagina and the anus, that is, 'perineal trauma', when giving birth. 
What is the issue? 
Perineal tears are common during childbirth. In addition, sometimes the person attending the birth cuts the perineum to give extra room for the baby to be born (an episiotomy). 
These tears and cuts often cause pain and the mother may have difficulty walking or sitting comfortably, or to feed and care for her baby, 
Why is this important? 
The pain from perineal tears or cuts can decrease women’s ability to move around and causes discomfort when passing urine or faeces. This can affect her emotional well‐being. Persisting perineal pain can have longer‐term effects, such as pain during sex and problems with bowel movements and urination. Women are encouraged to use different ways to relieve the pain, including the use of cooling treatments such as ice packs or cold gel pads. It is important to know if cooling works and whether it can slow healing of the cut or tear. 
This is an update of a review that was first published in 2007 and updated in 2012.
What evidence did we find? 
We updated the search for evidence in October 2019. We have now found 10 randomised controlled trials to include. Nine of these studies had information from 998 women that we could use in the review. 
Ice packs or cold gel pads were placed on the perineum for 10 to 20 minutes at a time in the first two days following childbirth. They were compared to no treatment (5 studies, 612 women) or placebo treatment of a gel pad (1 study) or a water bag (1 study), both at room temperature. Ice packs were compared with cold gel pads in three studies (338 women). 
The trials were largely of very low quality due to concerns about how valid the findings were, with small numbers of women for each comparison, wide variations in treatment effects, and women knowing which treatment (or if no treatment) they had used. Few trials looked at the same comparisons or trials used different assessment tools or outcomes. Most of the findings come from single studies. 
Women's self‐rated perineal pain following the use of the cold pad within six hours of giving birth may be less than for women who had no treatment (1 study, 100 women). There were no clear differences in self‐reported pain within 24 hours or up to 48 hours after giving birth (1 study, 316 women) or in perineal healing. 
A cold gel pad with compression in comparison to a placebo may result in a very small reduction in pain 24 to 48 hours after giving birth (1 study, 250 women). Perineal wound healing may not be adversely affected by cooling. None of the women with an ice pack or a water pack at room temperature reported pain in the first 24 hours after giving birth (1 study, 63 women). No adverse effects on wound healing were reported. 
Comparing ice packs with cold gel pads, there may be no difference in self‐rated perineal pain at any of the measurement times (3 studies, 338 women). One trial reported that fewer women using ice packs had gaping wound edges at day five but not at day 10 (215 women). In single studies, women rated their opinion of treatment less favourably with ice packs than with cold gel pads five days after giving birth (49 women) and when assessed on day 10 (208 women). 
