An overview of systematic reviews on mental health interventions for involuntary migrants
Refugees, asylum seekers, and internally displaced persons are involuntary migrants, who have often experienced distress when forced to leave their home, on the journey, and in the process of settling in a host country or new environment. Mental health promotion, prevention, and treatments for mental health problems such as depression, anxiety, and post‐traumatic stress disorder may work differently in these groups of people than for the general population. This overview of systematic reviews summarises the characteristics of reviews available on this topic, to help us determine which research questions are the most important to address in future Cochrane reviews. 
We searched for systematic reviews and protocols of systematic reviews on mental health promotion, prevention, and treatment of mental health problems for refugees, asylum seekers, and internally displaced persons. Mental health promotion may, for example, involve a classroom‐based well‐being intervention for children. An example of prevention is trauma‐focused therapy to prevent post‐traumatic stress disorder. Treatment may, for example, include psychological therapy for depression. We found 23 systematic reviews and 15 protocols of reviews in progress. Together the 23 published systematic reviews included 336 references, 175 of which were unique studies. Reviews more commonly included refugees and asylum seekers than internally displaced persons, and were more frequently focused on adults than children. There was more attention on the treatment of post‐traumatic stress disorder than there was for mental health promotion or prevention, or for the treatment of depression or anxiety. Studies of Cognitive Behavioural Therapy, Narrative Exposure Therapy, and integrative and interpersonal therapies were most likely to be included in reviews. 
The quality of reviews was limited by a range of issues, many of which related to poor reporting of the review methodology. 
