The review identified 17 studies. The studies covered six health conditions cancer (seven studies), rheumatoid arthritis (four), digestive conditions (three), asthma (one), psoriasis (one) and coronary obstructive pulmonary disease (one). Most studies were based in the UK (nine) but Sweden (three), Denmark (three), Finland (one) and the Netherlands (one) were also represented. The mean age of the 3854 patients ranged from 41 to 76 years and most were female. The results suggest patient‐initiated appointment systems may make little or no difference to patient anxiety, depression and quality of life compared to the consultant‐led appointment system (low‐quality evidence due to high risk of bias and variation in results). Other aspects of disease status and experience also appear to show little or no difference between patient‐initiated and consultant‐led appointment systems. Results for service utilisation (contact with health services and staff) suggest there may be little or no difference in service contacts between the patient‐initiated and consultant‐led services (low‐quality evidence due to different levels of contact reported across studies making it difficult to assess). We do not know if service utilisation (costs of services or staff) are reduced in the patient‐initiated compared to the consultant‐led appointment groups as the quality of this evidence is very low (due to the risk of bias and the variability of currencies and levels of costs reported across studies). The results suggest that there may be little or no impact on adverse events such as relapses in some conditions (cancer or inflammatory bowel disease) in the patient‐initiated appointment group in comparison with the consultant‐led appointment group (low‐quality evidence due to the inconsistency and precision across studies in reporting and measuring relapse). The results suggest there may be little or no impact on patient satisfaction (low‐quality evidence as each study used different questions to collect their data at different time points and across different illnesses). Not all studies reported their funding sources, but of those that were reported, most were funded by not‐for‐profit organisations. One study (on asthma) was funded by a pharmaceutical company. 