Mechanical ventilation for people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis/motor neuron disease 
Review question 
Does mechanical ventilation improve the survival of people with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS)? How does it affect disease progression and quality of life, and does it have any unwanted effects? 
Background 
Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis, also known as motor neuron disease, is a condition in which nerves that control movement are lost. Management of ALS has evolved rapidly in the last 10 years. Although there is still no cure, some treatments can help manage symptoms. Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis causes progressive muscle weakness, including weakness of the muscles used in breathing. Failure of ventilation (the capacity to move air in and out of the lungs) is an important cause of death in ALS. Mechanical ventilation is a method in which machines support the person's breathing. Mechanical ventilation may be invasive or non‐invasive. Invasive ventilation involves insertion of a tube into the throat (tracheostomy). Non‐invasive ventilation (NIV) is a method of helping people breathe that does not require a tracheostomy. Non‐invasive ventilation supports breathing via a mask on the face or nose that is connected via tubing to a small portable ventilator. 
Study characteristics 
In this updated review, we examined the evidence from two randomised trials of NIV in ALS involving a total of 54 participants. One of the trials, which studied when to start NIV, provided no usable data. A third trial, identified in a clinical trials register, currently has no published results. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
Complete data were only available from a single trial of 41 participants. The results of this trial provided moderate‐quality evidence that NIV significantly prolongs survival, and low‐quality evidence that it improves or maintains quality of life compared to standard care. Median survival was increased by an estimated 48 days, from 171 to 219 days. The survival benefit from NIV was much greater in people with ALS in whom the muscles used for speaking, chewing, and swallowing (bulbar muscles) were either unaffected or only moderately weak. Among these 20 participants, the median survival with NIV was increased by an estimated 205 days (216 days with NIV, compared to 11 days with standard care). Quality of life was also maintained in participants with mild to moderate bulbar weakness. In the 21 participants with severe bulbar weakness, NIV did not prolong survival or maintain quality of life scores, although a sleep‐related symptoms score improved. Neither trial reported on adverse effects. Participants and clinicians were aware of the treatment groups, which can influence quality of life assessments. 
More trials of NIV versus standard care in ALS are unlikely as it would not be ethical to withhold NIV. Future studies should examine early intervention with NIV and determine the best time to start it. 
