What is the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane review was to find out whether the use of a new imaging technique, called indocyanine green angiography (ICGA), during reconstructive breast surgery can reduce necrosis (cell death) of the overlying breast skin and other complications such as infections, following reconstructive breast surgery after mastectomy.  We included women who had undergone skin‐sparing mastectomy (that is, where the whole breast including nipple is removed, sparing the overlying breast skin) for breast cancer or women who were at high risk of developing breast cancer (because of faulty genes). We collected and analysed all relevant studies to provide a review that will inform doctors and patients on ICGA use in reconstructive breast surgery.  Key messages The use of ICGA during reconstructive breast surgery seems to reduce the chance of reoperations when compared to clinical evaluation only. We are uncertain about the effect of ICGA on reducing the chance of necrosis of the overlying breast skin and other post‐surgery complications when compared to clinical evaluation only. The quality of studies used for this review is very low, meaning that we are not confident of the results. We need high‐quality studies that have randomised women to a group of ICGA assessment or clinical evaluation alone to have a more definitive answer.  What was studied in the review? Around 40% of women with breast cancer need to undergo mastectomy (removal of the whole breast). A skin‐sparing mastectomy is a common operation in which the overlying breast skin is preserved. After skin‐sparing mastectomy, women have the option to undergo reconstructive breast surgery. This operation carries some risks and complications, including an operation to correct complications (reoperation), spontaneous reopening of the surgical wound (dehiscence), infection, blood pooling outside of a blood vessel (haematoma) and a pocket filled with blood plasma underneath the skin (seroma).  Preserving the blood supply of the overlying breast skin during skin‐sparing mastectomy is crucial. When the blood supply is poor, skin will not survive, and surgeons need to intervene to prevent postoperative complications. Usually, the surgeon will assess tissue colour, the time taken for colour to return to the skin after pressure is applied (capillary refill), temperature, skin’s elasticity, and bleeding of the skin.  ICGA is a new imaging technique that assesses the blood supply to the tissue. It can assess blood flow in the overlying breast skin better than clinical judgement alone. We collected studies that compared the use of ICGA to clinical evaluation by a surgeon during immediate reconstructive breast surgery after skin‐sparing mastectomy. In these studies, women underwent immediate reconstructive surgery with their own tissue from another area of the woman’s body or with a breast implant.  What are the main results of this review? We found nine studies that compared the number of postoperative complications in women who had ICGA assessment of their breast skin versus clinical evaluation. Six studies were performed in the USA, two in Denmark and one in Japan. There were a total 1589 women with 2199 breast reconstructions. Studies reported the number of complications on a per patient basis or on a per breast basis. We present information based on both types of data.  The main results on a per patient analysis were that: ‐ICGA may reduce reoperation rates, and ‐we are uncertain as to whether ICGA has an effect on necrosis of the overlying skin of the breast, infection, haematoma and seroma rates. 