Local anaesthesia (numbing medicine) that is directly applied to the skin can provide pain control for repair of skin lacerations 
Background: Pain control during suturing of torn skin is generally achieved by injecting medication into the skin (infiltration) to numb the area. This injection itself may cause pain, but topical anaesthetics are applied directly to the skin and are painless to administer. Cocaine was one of the first anaesthetics to be successfully applied topically. Concerns over adverse effects of cocaine, its potential misuse and the administrative burden of dispensing a controlled substance led to the development of cocaine‐free topical anaesthetics. Multiple cocaine‐free topical anaesthetics have been found to provide effective anaesthesia for repair of dermal lacerations. 
Study characteristics: The evidence is current to December 2016. We included in this review 25 randomized controlled trials involving 3278 participants. Studies included both adults and children. Fifteen of the included trials used self‐reporting of pain intensity by trial participants to determine the effectiveness of local anaesthetics. 
Key results: Study results suggest that directly applying local anaesthetics to the skin is an effective, non‐invasive way of providing pain control during suturing or stapling of skin lacerations. Study findings on the efficacy of individual topical anaesthetics were limited by study design, and data on the efficacy of each topical agent were obtained mostly from single trials. Researchers reported no serious side effects following the use of cocaine‐containing or cocaine‐free topical anaesthetics. The overall broadly comparable effectiveness of cocaine‐free topical anaesthetics for skin laceration repair brings into question the necessity to include cocaine as a component of local anaesthetic solutions. The small number of trials in each comparison group and the range of outcome measures assessed prevented pooling and quantitative analysis of data for all but the single outcome of pain intensity. 
Additional studies are necessary to directly compare the effectiveness of different formulations of topical anaesthetics. Our review was limited to pain control for repair of superficial lacerations, and our results might not be generalizable to deeper lacerations or more complex procedures performed on intact skin. Further research is needed to strengthen the evidence and to overcome the weakness of the included studies. 
Quality of the evidence: The overall quality of the evidence was low owing to limitations in study design, ways that studies were carried out (implementation), imprecision of results and high probability of selective data reporting. Most of the trials that compared infiltrated and topical anaesthetics were at high risk of bias, and this was likely to influence measured effects. 
