Exercise for hand osteoarthritis
Background ‐ What is hand osteoarthritis and what is exercise? 
Osteoarthritis (OA) is a disease of the joints that causes joint pain, stiffness and swelling. It may hinder people from doing what they want and need to do. Usually, symptoms come on slowly but get worse over time. OA may occur in any joint but is most commonly seen in the hip, knee and small joints of the hand. No cure for OA is known, but available treatment alternatives may reduce pain and stiffness, increase function and improve self‐management of the disease. 
Exercise is an activity done to improve or maintain your fitness, ability or performance. A period of planned exercise often aims to improve or maintain muscle strength, physical fitness, joint mobility and overall health. 
Study characteristics 
This Cochrane review presents what we know about the effect of exercise in people with OA in the joints of the hand. After searching for relevant studies up to September 2015, we included seven studies (534 participants). These studies included more women than men. In six studies, half of the people underwent a hand exercise programme and were compared with those who did not exercise. One study compared two groups of people who underwent two different exercise programmes. Evidence from five studies shows the effect of exercise immediately after the exercise programme, and two studies provided results on medium‐ and long‐term sustainability of exercise. We report below only the results reported immediately after the exercise programme was completed. 
Key results 
On a scale of 0 to 10 points (lower scores mean less pain), people who completed an exercise programme rated their hand pain 0.5 points lower (5% absolute improvement) at the end of treatment compared with people who did not exercise. People who did not exercise rated their pain at 3.9 points. 
On a scale of 0 to 36 points (lower scores mean better function), people who completed an exercise programme rated their hand function 2.2 points lower (6% absolute improvement) compared with people who did not exercise. People who did not exercise rated their hand function at 14.5 points. 
On a scale of 0 to 100 points (higher scores mean better quality of life), people who completed an exercise programme rated their quality of life 0.3 points higher (0.3% absolute improvement) compared with people who did not exercise. People who did not exercise rated their quality of life at 50.4 points. 
On a scale of 0 to 10 points (lower scores mean less finger joint stiffness), people who completed an exercise programme rated their stiffness in the finger joints 0.7 points lower (7% absolute improvement) at the end of treatment compared with people who did not exercise. People who did not exercise rated their finger joint stiffness at 4.5 points. 
A small number of people in the exercise group reported adverse events such as increased pain and/or joint swelling. We are uncertain as to whether exercise increases the number of people who experience adverse events. 
