Non‐pharmacological interventions for fear of childbirth (tocophobia) in pregnancy
Key messages 
While non‐medicine  treatments may reduce levels of fear for pregnant women with a high to severe fear of childbirth compared to standard maternity care, the reduction may not represent a meaningful change in their level of fear.Non‐medicine treatments probably reduce the number of women who have a caesarean section, where the baby is born surgically. Future research in this area should focus on measuring anxiety levels in women with a high or severe fear of childbirth.  
What is fear of childbirth? 
Fear of childbirth can range from minor worries and anxieties about giving birth, to a severe fear of childbirth that has a considerable impact on women's lives, causing distress and affecting their mental well‐being. A high to severe level of childbirth fear may include extreme levels of fear also known as ‘tocophobia’. 
It is normal for pregnant women – particularly first‐time mothers – to be anxious, worried or fearful about giving birth. However, some women have high fear related to childbirth and a smaller number have a severe fear of childbirth or ‘tocophobia’. These women:  
‐ may have feelings of isolation, guilt and shame;may choose to terminate a healthy pregnancy, hide a pregnancy or be in denial about a pregnancy;  
‐ may find it difficult to prepare for birth or access pregnancy information because of their fear and may experience problems bonding with their baby; 
‐ may have sleeplessness, nightmares, stomach aches, depression and anxiety that leads to panic attacks.  
Women with a high to severe fear of childbirth are more likely to have a planned or emergency caesarean birth, instrumental birth and experience physical effects related to fear, such as prolonged labour. Women with high fear of childbirth without a history of depression are  more likely to experience postnatal depression. 
How is fear of childbirth treated?  
The causes of fear of childbirth are complex and unique for each woman. High to severe fear of childbirth is not recognised or provided for in maternity care in many places in the world. Ways of treating fear of childbirth need to be investigated.  
Effective treatments would help women to have confidence in their ability to give birth, give them ways of coping with labour, and empower their decision‐making during pregnancy and the birth process. 
Treatments aim to provide extra support to women and include:
‐ sensitive education about the birth process;development of problem‐solving skills;
‐ teaching coping strategies for labour; 
‐ and affirming that negative childbirth events can be managed. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if non‐pharmacological (non‐medicine) treatments were better than the standard maternity care provided to pregnant women in terms of:  
‐ reducing women’s level of fear, as measured by a widely‐used questionnaire for childbirth fear;  
‐ reducing the number of women having a caesarean birthsection;
‐ reducing anxiety and depression.
What did we do?  
We searched for studies that investigated non‐pharmacological treatments aimed at reducing fear of childbirth. We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and number of participants.  
What did we find?  
We found seven studies that involved 1357 pregnant women with a high to severe fear of childbirth including tocophobia. The studies investigated different types of treatment, including: 
