Is supervised maintenance after pulmonary rehabilitation effective compared to usual treatment in people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease? 
Background 
Pulmonary rehabilitation is helpful for people with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). Pulmonary rehabilitation can give significant improvements in symptoms, quality of life, exercise tolerance, and reduces hospitalizations. This review considers whether maintenance rehabilitation programmes are helpful. Maintenance rehabilitation is supervised exercise training that is offered after a completed pulmonary rehabilitation programme. Typical maintenance rehabilitation programmes are supervised 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 31 March 2020.
Study characteristics 
This review included 21 studies involving 1799 people with COPD. Maintenance rehabilitation programmes were supervised at monthly or shorter intervals, but two studies had longer intervals between sessions. All the programmes were supervised, but some were supervised over the telephone, some were face‐to‐face, and some were a mixture of both. All maintenance programmes in this review gave people supervised exercise training. Some of the programmes also included education sessions. Most programmes lasted between six and 12 months. 
Key results 
At six to 12 months follow‐up, compared with usual care, supervised maintenance programmes did appear to improve quality of life and physical function by a small amount. The studies did not show reduced hospitalizations, exacerbations, or mortality. There were no adverse events related to maintenance programmes, suggesting that maintenance programmes are safe. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Many studies showed a high risk of bias because participants knew whether they were in the intervention group or the control group. Some outcomes were based on a small number of studies, and patients, resulting in inconsistent and imprecise results. This means that these results may not apply to all supervised maintenance programme models of delivery. 
