Transabdominal ultrasound and endoscopic ultrasound for detection of gallbladder polyps and differentiating between polyp types 
Background The gallbladder is an organ situated close to the liver. It stores bile, produced by the liver, before it is released to the small bowel for digestion. Abnormal growths inside the gallbladder, called 'gallbladder polyps', can develop. Most polyps (90%) are harmless; these are called pseudo polyps. The remaining are true polyps and can be cancerous, have cancer‐like parts (precancerous dysplastic polyps), or be benign, but they can potentially turn into cancer. Dysplastic polyps and cancerous polyps should be treated. Most people also treat benign polyps because of their potential to become cancerous. Treatment is done by removal of the gallbladder with the polyp within (cholecystectomy). To decide which patients should undergo surgery, it is important to (1) be certain that a gallbladder polyp is present, (2) know whether it is a true or pseudo polyp, and (3) whether a polyp is (pre)cancerous. Transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS), which uses ultrasound waves to differentiate between tissues, and endoscopic ultrasound (EUS), ultrasound attached to an endoscope introduced into the small intestine through the mouth and stomach, are the two tests currently used to detect gallbladder polyps and identify the type of gallbladder polyps. 
We performed a thorough search for studies that reported the accuracy (ability) of TAUS and EUS for the detection of gallbladder polyps and for differentiating between true and pseudo polyps, and between (pre)cancerous and benign polyps. 
Study characteristics A total of 16 studies were included. All studies reported on TAUS and EUS as separate tests and did not use a combination of TAUS and EUS. Six studies (16,260 participants) used TAUS for diagnosis of gallbladder polyps. No studies on the diagnosis of gallbladder polyps by EUS were found. Six studies (1,078 participants) used TAUS and three studies (209 participants) used EUS for differentiating between true and pseudo polyps. Four studies (1,009 participants) used TAUS and three studies (351 participants) used EUS for differentiating between (pre)cancerous and benign polyps. 
