Systemic therapies for preventing or treating aromatase inhibitor‐induced musculoskeletal symptoms in early breast cancer 
What was the aim of this review? 
Hormonal therapy with aromatase inhibitors is used to treat a type of early breast cancer (hormone‐receptor positive) in women after the menopause. AI cause side effects including joint and muscle pains and stiffness (aromatase inhibitors musculoskeletal symptoms, or so‐called AIMSS), which may cause some women to stop taking their aromatase inhibitors, and potentially worsen survival. The aim of this Cochrane Review was to examine whether systemic therapies (treatments that reach cells throughout the body by travelling through the bloodstream) can prevent or treat AIMSS. The authors collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
It is very unclear if systemic therapies improve, worsen or make no difference to pain or quality of life for women taking aromatase inhibitors. Most of the evidence was of very low quality. It was very unclear if systemic therapies for AIMSS were safe. 
What did the review study? 
We looked at research studies of systemic therapies, which included medicines, vitamins, and complementary and alternative medicines, to see if these could prevent or treat the joint and muscle pains and stiffness of women taking aromatase inhibitors. We included trials of systemic therapies compared to placebo (dummy treatment), or to standard treatments. Women treated with aromatase inhibitors for early‐stage hormone receptor‐positive breast cancer were included. Most studies were for treatment of AIMSS. 
Outcomes that were studied included changes in pain, stiffness, hand strength (grip strength), safety and side effects of the study treatments, number of women continuing to take their aromatase inhibitors, quality of life for women, how many women developed muscle and joint aches from their aromatase inhibitors, and survival. 
What were the main results of this review? 
After collecting and analysing all the relevant studies, we found 17 studies with 2034 women included. Different numbers of women were involved in these studies, ranging from 37 to 299. Four studies looked at systemic therapies to prevent the joint and muscle pains from aromatase inhibitors; 13 studies investigated systemic therapies to treat these symptoms. Ten studies were carried out in the USA, three in China, two in Australia, one in Italy and one in Brazil. Many of the studies had low numbers of women and this may have made it difficult to find small differences. There were problems with some studies being at risk of bias. Other problems were because several studies had not fully published information about their treatment ingredients or their results, so that some data were not available for review or analysis. In addition, studies used many different types of treatment, and it was not appropriate to combine their results in analysis. 
AIMSS prevention studies 
It is unclear whether any of these studies found a positive or negative effect on pain, and on the number of women who developed AIMSS because of the very low quality evidence. Systemic therapies may have little to no effect on grip strength, quality of life or on women continuing to take their aromatase inhibitors (low‐quality evidence). None of the studies looked at stiffness.  
