Pre‐operative endometrial thinning agents before endometrial destruction for heavy menstrual bleeding 
Review Question 
Cochrane authors reviewed evidence for the effectiveness and safety of medications used to thin the lining of the womb before surgery performed to destroy (ablate) this lining (endometrium) in premenopausal women with heavy menstrual bleeding. 
Background 
Heavy menstrual bleeding is one of the most common reasons why premenopausal women are referred to a gynaecologist; this condition can cause significant physical, emotional and social stress in a woman's life. Surgery to ablate the endometrium is a treatment option available for this condition that is less invasive than removal of the womb (i.e. hysterectomy). We wanted to discover whether using medications to thin the lining of the womb before endometrial destruction enhanced the effectiveness of surgery in reducing symptoms and improved operating conditions for the surgeon. We also wanted to evaluate the safety of these medications (i.e. observe whether side effects or surgical complications were increased). These medications included gonadotrophin‐releasing hormone analogues (GnRH analogues), danazol and progestogens. Endometrial destruction surgery included either the older 'hysteroscopic' technique, whereby the lining of the womb is destroyed under direct vision, or the newer second‐generation techniques, which include balloon, radiofrequency and microwave ablation. 
Study Characteristics 
The evidence is current to April 2013. The review included 20 randomised controlled trials with a total of 1969 premenopausal women with heavy menstrual bleeding for whom non‐surgical treatment had not worked. Studies compared GnRH analogues, danazol and progestogens versus placebo or no treatment; GnRH analogues versus danazol, progestogens, GnRH antagonists or dilatation & curettage; and danazol versus progestogens. Four studies performed more than one comparison. Three studies used the newer second‐generation surgical techniques for endometrial destruction. 
Key Results 
GnRH analogues and danazol used before hysteroscopic surgery improve both operating conditions for the surgeon and short‐term bleeding symptoms for women (up to 24 months after surgery). GnRH analogues thin the lining of the womb better and more consistently than danazol, although both agents produce satisfactory results. Adverse effects were more common in women taking GnRH analogues or danazol compared with no treatment, and this was especially true with danazol. Adverse effects included menopausal symptoms such as hot flushes, vaginal dryness, hirsutism, decreased libido and voice changes, as well as other side effects such as headache and weight gain. The use of medications to thin the lining of the womb before surgery does not appear to improve heavy menstrual bleeding in the long term (i.e. longer than 24 months). However, only a few small studies followed up with women for longer than 24 months. Also, medications given to thin the womb lining do not provide additional benefit when used with the newer second‐generation endometrial destruction techniques, which are being performed increasingly in hospitals. 
Quality of Evidence 
Overall, the quality of the evidence was very low because of risk of bias in the included studies and differences between the studies. The quality of reporting of adverse events was generally poor. 
