The effects of DPP‐4 inhibitors, GLP‐1 receptor agonists and SGLT‐2 inhibitors for people with cardiovascular disease 
Key messages 
‐ GLP‐1RA and SGLT2i (two new diabetes medicines) are likely to reduce the risk of death from cardiovascular disease and death from any cause in people with both diabetes and established cardiovascular disease (diseases of the heart and blood vessels). 
‐ SGLT2i medicines are likely to reduce the risk of hospitalisation for heart failure and GLP‐1RA medicines may reduce fatal and non‐fatal stroke. 
‐ We need further studies to find out if these medicines also have a positive effect on cardiovascular health in people without diabetes or if the effects seen in people with diabetes are due only to these medicines’ ability to control blood sugar. 
What is cardiovascular disease? 
Cardiovascular disease is a general term for conditions that affect the heart and blood vessels. It is one of the leading causes of death worldwide. Fatty substances in the blood can build up and block blood vessels, leading to problems such as heart failure – when the heart cannot pump blood around the body properly – stroke and heart attacks. People who are inactive or overweight, or have high blood pressure, high cholesterol or diabetes are at risk of cardiovascular disease. 
Some new types of diabetes medicines, DPP4i, GLP‐1RA and SGLT2i, have been designed to control blood sugar. They may also prevent cardiovascular complications in people with diabetes who also have cardiovascular disease. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know if DPP4i, GLP‐1RA and SGLT2i medicines are effective treatments for cardiovascular disease in people with established cardiovascular disease, both with and without diabetes. We also wanted to know whether these medicines cause unwanted effects. 
We were interested in whether people taking these medicines were at higher or lower risk of: dying from cardiovascular disease; having a fatal or non‐fatal heart attack; having a fatal or non‐fatal stroke; dying from any cause; being hospitalised due to heart failure; and experiencing unwanted effects, such as worsening kidney function, low blood sugar, bone fracture, and inflammation of the pancreas (pancreatitis). 
