Depot flupenthixol decanoate for schizophrenia or other similar mental illnesses
Schizophrenia is a severe mental illness that affects thinking and perception. It often develops in early adult‐hood and can have a lifelong impact on not only the mental well‐being of the sufferer, but their social and general functioning. Worldwide around 15 people per 100,000 are diagnosed with schizophrenia every year. The mainstay of treatment for schizophrenia is antipsychotic drugs. 
Antipsychotics are usually given as tablets by mouth (orally). However, people with mental illness often have difficulties with accepting medication (compliance). Their illness affects their thinking, which can erode their understanding of their illness and they often do not see the need for treatment. Taking antipsychotics can also have unpleasant side effects. Oral medication requires regular self‐administration otherwise effectiveness is reduced and the risk of relapse is high. 
A solution to poor compliance is depot medication where medication is given by injection and is slowly released over a period of weeks. For people with schizophrenia it was hoped to be able to maintain care in the community with regular injections administered by community psychiatric nurses. Initial enthusiasm and the favourable results of clinical trials gave rise to the extensive use of depots as a means of long‐term treatment. Flupenthixol decanoate is one of the most widely used depot antipsychotics in the UK. 
This review looks at the effectiveness of depot flupenthixol decanoate in comparison with no active treatment (placebo), oral antipsychotics and other depot preparations for people with schizophrenia and other severe mental illnesses. An electronic search for relevant trials was carried out in 2013. Fifteen trials with 626 participants could be included. All evidence from these trials was rated by the authors to be low or very low quality. Currently, from the data reported, there is nothing to choose between depot flupenthixol decanoate and other depot or oral antipsychotics. There was some evidence that it would be understandable to offer a standard dose rather than the high dose depot flupenthixol as there is no difference in relapse. Overall, this review highlights the lack of evidence based information available for the review question and the need for large, well‐designed and reported randomised clinical trials to address the medical, social, personal and economic effects of flupenthixol decanoate. 
