Prevention of blood clots in adults diagnosed with acute lymphoblastic leukaemia and treated with asparaginase‐based chemotherapy 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether currently available medications for prevention of blood clots have an appreciable balance between benefits and harms in adults with a subtype of blood cancer called acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) treated with asparaginase‐containing chemotherapy.  
Key messages 
We are uncertain whether blood‐derived products such as antithrombin concentrates for the prevention of blood clots in adults with ALL treated with asparaginase‐based chemotherapy are associated with unacceptable harms such as death. Our confidence in the identified studies is limited because of their non‐randomised design with few participants and no control for underlying factors that could influence the outcome. 
Harms regarding other types of blood clot prevention such as low‐molecular‐weight heparin could not be evaluated, because death and bleeding were not reported.  We did not look at benefits such as reduction in risk of blot clots, given the low quality of identified evidence (no randomised studies). We need high‐quality randomised studies, as the conduct of such studies minimises the risk of underlying factors influencing the outcomes.  
What was studied in this review?  
ALL is a subtype of blood cancer arising from malignant transformation of immature white blood cells of lymphoid origin. Over the last 20 years, the historically poor survival in adults with this disease has markedly improved, primarily due to the introduction of more intensive anti‐leukaemic treatment inspired by that used in children with ALL. One of the hallmarks of this treatment is the intensive use of the anti‐leukaemic agent called asparaginase. However, nothing comes without a price. Both older age and asparaginase treatment increase the risk of blood clots, which can either block the blood vessels (predominantly in those called veins) and change the normal blood flow or shower fractions of the clot into other veins located in important organs, resulting in serious health problems. Additionally, doctors are prone to stop asparaginase treatment, if blood clots occur—potentially compromising survival in these people.  
We do not know if the existing types of blood clot prevention protect against the clots and do not cause bleeding and death in adults with this disease. The medications include heparins, vitamin K antagonists, synthetic pentasaccharides, direct thrombin inhibitors, direct oral anticoagulants, or blood‐derived products for antithrombin substitution (decreased production in the body of this anti‐blood clotting protein during asparaginase), and mechanical prevention such as graduated elastic stockings.  
Therefore, we looked at all currently available research in adults with ALL treated with asparaginase‐containing chemotherapy who received blood clot prevention compared to placebo or no prevention. We looked at the following outcomes: first‐time symptomatic venous blood clot, all‐cause death, major bleeding, blood clot‐related death, asymptomatic venous blood clot, clinically relevant non‐major bleeding, heparin‐induced lowering of blood platelet counts, and quality of life. 
What are the results of this review? 
We found 23 studies, of which we included two studies in our main analyses to help answer the question and nine studies in an additional analysis to help describe the limitations of the evidence. The remaining 12 studies could not be included due to missing outcomes or critical risk of bias, as people in the control group were not 'real' controls.  
The two studies from our main analysis were conducted in UK/Canada and compared antithrombin with no antithrombin concentrates and low‐molecular‐weight heparin with no low‐molecular‐weight heparin, respectively, for people with ALL. We are uncertain whether antithrombin concentrates in adults with ALL treated with asparaginase‐based chemotherapy improve/reduce all‐cause/blood clot‐related death, because our confidence in the evidence was very low (one study, 40 adults). Harms in relation to the use of low‐molecular‐weight heparin could not be evaluated, because all‐cause/blood clot‐related death, major/clinically relevant non‐major bleeding, or heparin‐induced lowering of platelets were not reported. None of the studies looked at quality of life.  
No studies were found that evaluated any of the other prevention types. We did not look at benefits such as reduction in risk of blood clots, given the low certainty of evidence. 
How up to date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to 02 June, 2020. 
