Levels of interleukin‐6 in identifying severely ill adult patients with sepsis
Review question 
We evaluated the evidence on the ability of interleukin‐6 (IL‐6) levels in plasma to identify adult patients with sepsis. Interleukin‐6 is a cytokine (a broad and loose category of small proteins) secreted by immune cells that mediates a wide range of biological activities. 
Background 
Sepsis is a potentially life‐threatening response by the immune system to an infection that can result in tissue damage, organ failure, and even death, and should be considered as a medical emergency. About 288 septic cases by 100,000 person‐years occur in hospital settings, and 17% of those patients could die. Early identification of patients having sepsis is the first step for immediate medical management, which is essential to avoid further complications and death. Treatment consists mainly of the use of antibiotics (a drug that inhibits the growth of dangerous micro‐organisms). Several tools have been proposed for sepsis diagnosis, as well as the physical examination of blood cultures (the assessment of blood samples to identify micro‐organisms causing the infection). Interleukin‐6 is a molecule that helps in the communication of cells during the body's response to an infection. It has been suggested that the measurement of levels of IL‐6 in the plasma from blood samples during the onset of sepsis can be helpful in identifying sepsis patients early and initiating adequate treatment. 
Study characteristics 
We performed a thorough literature search for studies reporting the use of IL‐6 levels for detection of sepsis up to January 2019. We found 23 studies enrolling 4192 severely ill adults. 
Key results 
Our assessment of the evidence reveals the complexity of the research topic, represented in the high variability of information reported by the studies. We found the characteristics of assessed patients to vary considerably between studies in terms of age, gender, setting, initial diagnosis, indicative value for sepsis, and source of infection, among other factors. This variability in the collected data prevented a formal numerical synthesis of the findings. Using the available data to perform an approximated estimation of the consequences, we found that 700 out of 1000 patients under suspicion of sepsis might be correctly classified, but 130 out of 1000 patients would be wrongly considered as having sepsis, while 170 out of 1000 patients might be incorrectly considered as not having sepsis. These errors would result in a serious increase in the risk of further morbidity and death due to delays of adequate treatment. This information should be interpreted with caution due to limitations in the collected data. 
