Providing information to stroke survivors and their carers
What was the review about? 
We reviewed the evidence about the effects of providing information to people after stroke. These were people who have had a stroke or mini‐stroke (transient ischaemic attack (TIA)), or their carers, such as friends and family. We mainly looked at the effect on their knowledge of stroke and stroke care, their mood and their quality of life. 
Background 
A stroke is a sudden loss of brain function caused by lack of blood supply. Stroke can lead to death or physical and mental problems. It can have a major effect on the person's life and those around them. 
Stroke survivors and their carers often say they have not been given enough facts about stroke. They often do not feel ready for life after leaving hospital. Some people say they were overwhelmed. The information was not explained to them or was given at the wrong time. Information may help people to manage their health better and adjust to life after stroke. 
We wanted to know whether it was better or worse to be given extra information. We also wanted to know if the way information was provided matters. 
Study characteristics 
We found 33 studies involving 5255 stroke survivors and 3134 carers. In 11 studies, information was provided passively as a leaflet, DVD, medical history or personalised booklet. In 22 studies, information was provided actively, often combining ways such as talks, demonstrations, meetings and phone calls. 
Key results 
For stroke survivors, providing information actively may improve knowledge of stroke and stroke care. It may slightly reduce anxiety and depression, but this may not be noticeable. It may also improve quality of life. The evidence was less clear for providing information passively. However, it may slightly worsen anxiety and depression. Again, this may not be by a noticeable amount. For carers the evidence is very uncertain or absent. 
Confidence in the evidence 
We generally had low or very low confidence in the evidence. We were moderately confident that the depressive symptoms of stroke survivors were slightly reduced by active information provision. Our confidence was often limited by the following factors. 
