Video calls for reducing social isolation and loneliness in older people
Background 
Coronavirus (COVID‐19) is a new virus that has spread quickly throughout the world. Countries have introduced restrictions on people’s movement to protect them from COVID‐19, but an unwanted result is that older people may feel lonely and isolated, which may lead to poor mental and physical health. 
A video call is a phone call that uses an internet connection. Video calls allow callers to see – as well as hear – each other. This technology could help older people keep in touch with family and friends safely, and this may reduce their feelings of loneliness and social isolation. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to find out if older people who used video calls felt less lonely than those who did not. We also looked at whether video calls affected symptoms of depression or quality of life. 
Our methods 
We looked for studies that randomly allocated older people to different groups to use either video calls, another method of keeping in touch, or no particular method (usual care), with the aim of examining their effects on loneliness or social isolation. For our review, we considered older people to be aged 65 years or above. We considered video calls to be calls made via the internet, using computers, tablets or smartphones. 
COVID‐19 is spreading rapidly, so we needed to answer this question quickly. This meant that we shortened some steps of the normal Cochrane Review process. Two review authors checked 25% of our search results for studies and one review author checked the remaining 75% of our results, where normally two review authors would check all the results. Similarly, only one review author collected data and assessed the quality of the studies, and a second review author checked this work. 
Results 
We included three studies, with 201 participants, in our review. All three studies took place in nursing homes in Taiwan between 2010 and 2020 and compared video calls to usual care. 
The evidence from these three studies suggests that video calls have little to no effect on loneliness after three, six or 12 months. There is also little to no difference in symptoms of depression after three or six months, although after a year, older people who used video calls may have had a small reduction in depression compared to those who received usual care. Similarly, video calls may make little to no difference to older people’s quality of life. 
Certainty of the evidence 
Our certainty (confidence) in the evidence was limited because we found few studies with a small number of participants, and they either used unreliable methods or did not fully describe their methods. Also, all of the participants were in nursing homes, so our findings may not apply to older people living in other places, such as their own homes. Also, some of the participants may not have been feeling lonely or socially isolated. 
Conclusion 
Based on the current evidence, we are unable to say whether video calls help to reduce loneliness in older people. We need more studies, that use rigorous methods to investigate this question, and focus on older people who are lonely or socially isolated. 
