Abdominal ultrasound and alpha‐foetoprotein for the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma
Why is improving the diagnosis of hepatocellular carcinoma important? 
Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), i.e. cancer originating in the liver, is sixth in terms of global occurrences of cancer and fourth in terms of cancer deaths in men. This cancer occurs mostly in people with chronic liver disease regardless of the cause. Ultrasound (US), which uses ultrasound waves to show abnormalities in the liver, can detect the presence of liver lesions suspected of being HCC. Alpha‐foetoprotein (AFP), a glycoprotein, produced by the liver and measurable in the blood, is considered a tumour‐marker because high levels can be associated with the presence of HCC. These two tests (US and AFP) are used, alone or in combination, to exclude the presence of HCC in people at high risk of developing HCC. People at high risk are those who have chronic liver disease. Current guidelines recommend surveillance programmes, repeating abdominal US with or without AFP testing every six months to detect early HCC, amenable to surgical resection or other treatment. 
What is the aim of this review? 
To find out how accurate AFP, US, and a combination of AFP and US are for diagnosing HCC in people with chronic liver disease. 
What was studied in this review? 
AFP (tumour marker), that can easily be measured in the blood, using a commercial kit. Studies with AFP used various threshold values for defining the test as positive or negative. 
US is an equipment, available worldwide. It produces images of liver and other abdominal organs. It can detect the presence of liver lesions suspected of being HCC. 
A combination of AFP and US can detect or negate the presence of liver lesions suspected of being HCC. 
What are the main results in this review? 
We found 373 total studies in adults: AFP was analysed in 326 studies, 144,570 participants; US in 39 studies, 18,792 participants; and the combination of AFP and US in eight studies, 5454 participants. 
‐ AFP with threshold of 20 ng/mL (147 studies): the test was positive in 60 out of 100 participants with HCC and in 16 out of 100 participants without HCC. AFP with threshold of 200 ng/mL (56 studies): the test was positive in 36 out of 100 participants with HCC and only in 1 out of 100 without HCC.‐ US (39 studies): the test was positive in 72 out of 100 participants with HCC and in 6 out of 100 participants without HCC.‐ The combination of AFP with threshold of 20 ng/mL and US (6 studies): one or both tests were positive in 96 out of 100 participants with HCC and in 15 out of 100 participants without HCC. 
