Myeloid growth factors for patients with myelodysplastic syndromes
In this systematic review, we summarised and analysed the evidence from randomised controlled trials on the efficacy and safety of granulocyte colony stimulating factors (G‐CSF) and granulocyte‐macrophage colony stimulating factors (GM‐CSF) in the treatment of myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). We searched several important medical databases and found seven randomised controlled trials fulfilling our pre‐defined criteria. We included trials which compared G‐CSF or GM‐CSF in addition to erythropoiesis (production of red blood cells) stimulating agents (ESAs), chemotherapy or no supportive care, in newly diagnosed patients. 
Background 
Myelodysplastic syndromes are a heterogeneous group of blood cancers which are characterised by the malproduction of one or more lineages of blood stem cells. MDS is described as a rare disease in people under the age of 50 years, but represents a common haematopoietic disorder (a disorder of blood and bone marrow, thus a defect in production and structure of blood cells) in patients older than 70 years. The presented symptoms are dependent on which cell lines are affected and include bleeding, general weakness and bacterial infections. 
Standard treatment in older and low‐risk patients is restricted to low‐dose chemotherapy and supportive care (blood transfusions and haematopoietic growth factors such as ESAs, stimulating red blood cells and G‐CSF and GM‐CSF, stimulating white blood cells). High‐risk patients are curatively treated with blood stem cell transplantation or palliatively with high‐dose chemotherapy, always combined with supportive care. 
Myeloid growth factors stimulate the production of certain cells. They are released by the human body by nature, but can also be pharmaceutically synthesised and are used for the improvement of blood counts and the avoidance of e.g. infections. The effect of growth factors is under discussion, since their impact on progression to acute myeloid leukaemia (AML), a more aggressive blood cancer, survival and infections is still unclear. 
Study characteristics 
Our review included seven trials investigating the effect of G‐CSF or GM‐CSF in a randomised design. 
Key results 
Five trials evaluated G‐CSF in addition to standard care (N = 337). A meta‐analysis of outcomes from this comparison was not conducted, since results were provided in an incomparable and insufficient way across these trials. There was no evidence for a difference between "additional G‐CSF" and "standard care only" in terms of overall survival, progression‐free survival, time to progression to AML, infections, and incidence of blood product transfusions. Quality of life and serious adverse events were not reported at all. 
Two trials assessed GM‐CSF in addition to standard care only (N = 149). The meta‐analysis on overall survival showed no evidence for a difference between patients receiving supportive care with GM‐CSF compared to patients without GM‐CSF. All the other pre‐defined outcomes were analysed in a non‐comparable way or in one trial only and no meta‐analysis was possible, without evidence for a difference. Time to progression to acute leukaemia and quality of life were not reported at all. 
In summary, we found no evidence for a difference in terms of overall survival, progression‐free survival, infection occurrence, quality of life, time to progression to AML, incidence of blood transfusions and adverse events (e.g. infection, bleeding, nausea) for both of the growth factors. 
In addition, we identified two trials evaluating 244 patients without publishing results for each trial arm before all patients could receive GM‐CSF (cross‐over design). Moreover, we identified two trials, of which both have been terminated early, without publishing any results in both cases. 
