Treatments for haemangiomas (a cluster of small blood vessels that form a lump) of the skin in children 
What is the aim of this review? 
This Cochrane Review aimed to assess the benefits and harms of treatments for haemangiomas of the skin in infants and children (known as 'infantile haemangiomas'). We collected and analysed 28 relevant clinical trials to answer this question. 
Key messages 
Only one of our key comparisons (propranolol versus placebo) measured clearance of the haemangioma, with moderate‐quality evidence supporting this result. We found low‐ or moderate‐quality evidence for the following specific measures of resolution: reduction in volume, redness, and size. We found very low‐ and low‐quality evidence for results concerning side effects, meaning we were unable to draw definitive conclusions about safety. 
Oral propranolol is currently the standard treatment for this condition, and we did not find evidence to contest this treatment in terms of efficacy and safety. However, potential biases in the design of many of the included trials affect our confidence in the results of the review. High‐quality future research should assess the effects of propranolol and timolol maleate, as well as other new and older medications, on outcomes that are important to patients. 
What was studied in the review? 
Infantile haemangiomas are soft, raised swellings on the skin, often with a bright‐red surface caused by a non‐cancerous overgrowth of blood vessels in the skin. The majority of lesions are uncomplicated and will shrink on their own by age seven; however, some require treatment if they occur in high‐risk areas (e.g. near the eyes) or cause psychological distress. 
We included all types of treatment for infantile haemangiomas, which could have been given alone or in combination, or compared to each other, to a 'placebo' (i.e. a treatment with no active agent), or against children whose haemangiomas were untreated but observed. 
What are the main results of the review? 
We included 28 studies, with a total of 1728 participants, which assessed lasers, beta blockers (e.g. propranolol), steroids, radiation therapy, and other treatments. Treatments were compared against an active monitoring approach (observation), placebo, sham radiation, or other interventions (given alone or in combination with another treatment). Studies were conducted in multiple countries; participant age ranged from 12 weeks to 13.4 years; and most studies included more girls than boys (23/28). Children had different types of haemangioma. Duration of follow‐up ranged from 7 days to 72 months. 
The following results were measured 24 weeks after the beginning of treatment. All non‐safety outcomes presented here were clinician assessed (i.e. assessed by the physician in charge of a patient). 
When compared with placebo treatment, propranolol taken by mouth at a dose of 3 mg/kg/day is probably more beneficial in terms of complete or almost‐complete clearance of swelling and reduction in volume of the haemangioma (moderate‐quality evidence). We found no evidence of a difference between the two treatments in terms of short‐ or long‐term serious or other side effects (low‐quality evidence). Most of the evidence for this comparison was based on an industry‐sponsored study. 
Timolol maleate 0.5% gel applied topically twice daily may reduce redness as a measure of resolution when assessed against placebo (low‐quality evidence). Short‐ or long‐term serious cardiovascular events were not reported in either group. There were no other safety data for timolol maleate compared with placebo (low‐quality evidence). This comparison did not assess clearance of the swelling. 
There was no evidence of a difference between propranolol taken by mouth (via a tablet once per day, at a 1.0 mg/kg dose) and topical timolol maleate (0.5% eye drops applied twice daily) in terms of their effect on reducing haemangioma size by 50% or more (low‐quality evidence). There were more general short‐ or long‐term side effects (such as severe diarrhoea, tiredness, and decreased appetite) with propranolol, but due to very low‐quality evidence, these results are uncertain. This comparison did not assess clearance of the swelling. 
Most of the comparisons assessed, including those described above, did not report on the following outcomes: parent or child's opinion of improvement; the proportion of parents or children who consider there is still a problem; and cosmetic appearance. 
