Extra calcium in tablets before pregnancy, or in early pregnancy, for preventing high blood pressure complications of pregnancy 
What is the issue? 
We wanted to know if giving women calcium as a supplement before pregnancy or during early pregnancy would help pregnant women avoid pre‐eclampsia, high blood pressure, and other serious health problems during pregnancy. We wanted to know if these supplements could improve pregnancy, and birth for the baby, as well. 
Why is this important? 
Women can develop high blood pressure and have protein in their urine after the twentieth week of pregnancy; this condition is known as pre‐eclampsia. Many women, particularly those in low‐income countries, do not have enough calcium in their diets. Giving these women extra calcium during the second half of pregnancy has been shown to reduce their risk of having high blood pressure and protein in the urine, and other related problems, such as convulsions, stroke, blood‐clotting problems, fluid in the lungs, kidney failure, or even death. It is important to know if taking extra calcium before pregnancy and in early pregnancy can reduce the number of women who develop blood pressure problems during pregnancy, and related complications. 
We searched for randomised controlled studies that looked at the effect of taking extra calcium before or early in pregnancy on the number of women who developed pre‐eclampsia. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched the medical literature in July 2018 and found one relevant clinical trial. This trial included 1355 women who had previously had pre‐eclampsia, who lived in Argentina, South Africa, and Zimbabwe. 
The trial compared pregnant women who had daily calcium with women who had placebo (a dummy tablet) until 20 weeks of pregnancy, when all women switched to having daily calcium until birth. We had some concerns about the evidence from this trial, because nearly a quarter of the women who were enrolled were lost to follow‐up, and we do not know whether they went on to become pregnant. Overall, while the results suggested that some women may benefit from calcium supplements, the findings included the possibility that the calcium didn't make a difference. Calcium may have helped some pregnant women avoid either losing the pregnancy or developing blood pressure problems, but we need more studies to be really confident that this effect was due to calcium. Calcium may have made little or no difference to whether pregnant women had other serious health conditions during pregnancy, such as: maternal admission to intensive care, blood pressure problems (pre‐eclampsia, severe pre‐eclampsia, eclampsia), placental separation from the uterus (placental abruption), or death. For babies, calcium may have had little or no impact on whether they were of low birthweight, of poor condition at birth, or required intensive care. The results did not clearly indicate the impact of calcium on whether babies died either before or after the birth, or needed to be admitted to neonatal intensive care for more than 24 hours. 
