Glutamine for treatment of active Crohn's disease
What is Crohn's disease?
Crohn's disease is a chronic inflammatory disorder of the intestines which has periods of inactivity and periods when it flares up. Crohn's disease can affect any part of the digestive tract, from the mouth to the anus. The most common symptoms of the disease include abdominal pain, non‐bloody diarrhoea and weight loss. When people with Crohn's disease are experiencing symptoms of the disease it is said to be ‘active’; periods when the symptoms stop are called ‘remission’. 
What is glutamine?
Glutamine is an amino acid that plays a key role in maintaining the integrity of the intestinal mucosa (lining of the intestines) and has been shown to reduce inflammation and disease activity in animal models of Crohn's disease. It has therefore been suggested that glutamine may reduce intestinal inflammation in people with Crohn's disease. 
What did the researchers investigate?
The researchers investigated whether glutamine is effective for inducing remission in people with active Crohn's disease and whether this treatment causes any harms (side effects). The researchers searched the medical literature up to November 15, 2015. 
What did the researchers find?
The researchers identified two randomised controlled trials (total 42 participants) that investigated the role of glutamine for the treatment of active Crohn's disease. One study (18 patients) compared four weeks of treatment with a glutamine‐enriched polymeric diet (42% amino acid composition) to a standard polymeric diet (4% amino acid composition) with low glutamine content in paediatric patients (< 18 years of age) with active Crohn's disease. Participants were encouraged to consume the diet orally. If this was not possible the diet was administered via a fine‐bore nasogastric tube. The other study (24 participants) compared glutamine‐supplemented total parenteral nutrition (TPN) to non‐supplemented TPN in adult patients (> 18 years of age) with sudden worsening of inflammatory bowel disease. The TPN diet was administered intravenously via a central catheter (a thin tube) for at least one week. Both studies were generally high quality. Neither study demonstrated any beneficial effects for glutamine. Side effects were not well documented in the two studies. There were no serious side effects noted in the paediatric study. The study in adult patients reported three central catheter‐related blood infections in the glutamine group compared to none in the non‐glutamine control group. Currently, there is insufficient evidence to allow any firm conclusions regarding the effectiveness and harms of glutamine for the treatment of active Crohn's disease. 
