Virtual reality training for improving the skills needed for performing surgery of the ear, nose or throat 
Review question 
This review evaluated whether surgeons trained in virtual reality simulation achieved outcomes for their patients that were equivalent to, or better than, those obtained through conventional training methods. It also evaluated whether virtual reality training helped surgeons acquire equivalent (or better) technical skills required to achieve good surgical outcomes, or the non‐technical skills to make good decisions and lead the operating room team. Another consideration evaluated was the level of experience of participants in the trials, given that some of the study participants were surgeons in training, while others were medical students. 
Background 
Virtual reality simulation provides an alternative to current training programmes for ear, nose and throat surgery. However, the capability of virtual reality simulation training to provide an equivalent, or superior, approach to traditional training methods needs to be reliably identified. As virtual reality is an emerging technology, few comparative studies exist, making it difficult to identify accurately its value or worth for surgical training. 
Study characteristics 
We included nine studies involving 210 ear, nose and throat residents and medical students. Four studies compared virtual reality endoscopic sinus surgery training with conventional training; one study compared virtual reality endoscopic dacryocystorhinostomy training versus textbook reading; two studies compared virtual reality temporal bone dissection training versus cadaveric temporal bone dissection training and two studies compared virtual reality temporal bone dissection training versus a small group tutorial with temporal bone models. None of the studies were funded by an agency with a commercial interest in the results of the studies. 
Key results 
None of the studies evaluated whether training in virtual reality influences patient outcomes or non‐technical skills. There is evidence to support the introduction of virtual reality into surgical training on the basis that the technical skills acquired by this method are as good as, or better than, those learnt through conventional training. Virtual reality can be added to the extensive range of activities that constitutes a comprehensive surgical training programme. Virtual reality simulation should also be considered as an additional learning tool for medical students. 
Quality of the evidence 
We assessed the quality of the evidence in this review for most outcomes as 'low' (using the GRADE system). The key reasons for this were issues related to study design. The evidence in this review is up to date to 27 July 2015. 
