Anaesthesia with injectable versus gaseous anaesthetic agents for rapid awakening following surgery for brain tumour 
Review question: We reviewed and compared evidence on the usefulness of injectable and gaseous techniques for rapid awakening from anaesthesia in people undergoing surgery for brain tumour. 
Background: Brain tumour surgery is carried out most often with the patient asleep and with the use of injectable agents or gases. Injectable agents are delivered to the patient through the veins, whereas gases are delivered to the lungs through a tube placed in the windpipe. Advantages of one over the other approach remain questionable. Smooth and quick awakening after surgery is important for these patients so that their mental status may be assessed easily. We aimed to discover whether injectable techniques were better or worse than gaseous techniques. 
Study characteristics: The evidence is current to June 2014. We included studies with participants from all age groups except neonates (infants less than 28 days old) who received injectable or gas techniques of anaesthesia during surgery for brain tumour. We reran the searches for all databases in March 2016 and found two studies that are awaiting classification. We will deal with them when we update this review. 
Key results: We found 15 eligible studies with 1833 participants. These studies compared one injectable drug (propofol) with two gaseous drugs (sevoflurane and isoflurane). Although isoflurane was associated with slower awakening (about three and a half minutes) compared with propofol, researchers found no important differences between propofol and sevoflurane. In terms of adverse effects, propofol was less likely to cause nausea and vomiting than either gas anaesthetic (about half as likely) but was more likely to be associated with changes in blood pressure. Overall, we found that isoflurane is associated with slower awakening, but we have found no evidence of important differences between sevoflurane and propofol. 
