Medication for the treatment of depression in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease
Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a term that mainly describes two lung conditions: chronic bronchitis and emphysema. The main symptoms of COPD include shortness of breath, persistent cough, wheezing, and/or frequent chest infections. There is no cure for COPD, but treatment can help slow the disease progress and relieve symptoms. Depression is very common in patients with COPD, but is often untreated. Studies show that untreated depression in patients with COPD can worsen quality of life, increase COPD exacerbations and hospital admissions, and make following a COPD treatment plan difficult. Treatment for depression can include antidepressant medication, psychological therapy, or both. However, evidence‐based recommendations regarding antidepressant medication use specifically for patients with COPD are not currently available. 
Why is this review important? 
There is currently no clear overview of existing evidence showing whether antidepressants can effectively and safely reduce depressive symptoms in patients with COPD, therefore it was important to assess the existing experimental studies. 
Who will be interested in this review? 
Healthcare professionals, people with COPD and depression, researchers, and policymakers will be interested in the findings of this review. 
What questions does this review aim to answer? 
Our main aim was to assess whether pharmacological treatment (e.g. antidepressants) could effectively and safely treat COPD‐related depression. 
Which studies were included in the review? 
This review included experimental studies called randomised controlled trials (studies in which participants are assigned to a treatment group based on a random method) that compared the effectiveness of pharmacological interventions (antidepressants) to placebo (inactive treatment in the same form as the active treatment, e.g. a pill). Study participants were adults diagnosed with COPD and depression. 
What does the evidence from the review tell us? 
We have identified only four studies worldwide that were eligible for inclusion in our review. This means limited evidence to support the use of antidepressants for the treatment of depression in patients with COPD. Only one study evaluated a tricyclic antidepressant, nortriptyline, finding that it reduced depressive symptoms when compared to a placebo. Three studies evaluated a newer generation class of antidepressants called selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs), finding no evidence for their effectiveness in improving depressive symptoms. Due to the limited evidence, we are unable to make definitive statements about the effectiveness but also safety of antidepressants when used for COPD‐related depression. However, SSRIs may increase exercise capacity in patients with COPD. 
