Do psychological interventions work for people with both depression and substance use disorders? 
What is the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if psychological interventions (delivered with or without pharmacotherapy) are effective for the treatment of comorbid depression and substance use disorders. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question. 
Key messages 
No conclusions about the effectiveness of psychological interventions for the treatment of comorbid depression and substance use disorders can be made, due to the low number of studies found and very low quality of the evidence. More high‐quality studies comparing psychological interventions versus no treatment, delayed treatment, treatment as usual and other psychological interventions are needed. 
What was studied in the review? 
Comorbidity occurs for people experiencing mental disorders when the same person has two or more mental disorders. People diagnosed with depression are more likely to have substance use disorders, and vice versa. Comorbid disorders are associated with poorer clinical, social and vocational outcomes than either disorder alone. Psychological treatments for comorbid depression and substance use disorders are available, but relatively few have been tested. These treatments target psychological (thoughts, feelings, behaviours), social (family and personal relationships), and environmental risk factors (access to drugs) for depression and substance use. 
What are the main results of the review? 
The review authors searched for studies and found seven randomised controlled trials involving 608 people with comorbid depression and substance use disorders published between 2003 and 2014. All seven studies were published in the USA and predominately consisted of individuals from Caucasian backgrounds. No conclusions about the effectiveness of psychological interventions delivered with or without pharmacotherapy could be made, as no studies comparing these interventions with no treatment, delayed treatment or treatment as usual were found. All seven studies compared different types or combinations of psychological treatments. Few consistent differences in depression or substance use treatment outcomes were found. No conclusions about which type of psychological intervention was most effective could be made, due to the low number of studies found and very low quality of the evidence . None of the studies reported any harms related to receiving psychological treatment for depression and substance use disorders. All studies were funded by university and government research grants in the USA. 
