Follow‐up services to improve the long‐term after‐effects of a stay in the intensive care unit 
What is the aim of this review 
More people survive the intensive care unit (ICU), but are prone to suffering from physical and psychological consequences that may affect their quality of life. Follow‐up services are a relatively new development in healthcare. These services, which include consultations with healthcare professionals, are intended to identify and address these after‐effects more effectively than standard care (which does not use follow‐up services). The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if follow‐up services for people after they have been in the ICU are effective. We collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found five studies. 
Key messages 
Overall, we found few studies, each of which used a different design of a follow‐up service, and so our confidence in deciding whether ICU follow‐up services are effective was limited. We found no evidence of whether using a follow‐up service after a stay in the ICU improves a person's health‐related quality of life, anxiety and depression, post‐traumatic stress disorder (PTSD), or physical and mental function. We found no evidence of whether using a follow‐up service reduces the number of people who die or the number of people who return to work 12 months after ICU discharge. 
During our search of the literature, we found five ongoing studies. These are not included in this review, but including them in future updates may increase the certainty of the evidence and our confidence in deciding whether ICU follow‐up services are effective. 
What was studied in the review 
We studied some of the physical and psychological consequences that people may suffer after they have been in the ICU, which may affect their quality of life, for example, anxiety and depression, or PTSD. We assessed whether these consequences were improved if a follow‐up service was used. 
What are the main results of the review 
We found four randomised studies with 1297 participants and one non‐randomised study with 410 participants. These studies were conducted in Denmark, Germany, Sweden, UK and USA. Participants had a range of conditions in the ICU, and varied in severity of these conditions. One study included only participants who had sepsis. 
We included studies that compared a follow‐up service provided after a stay in the ICU with standard care (which provided no follow‐up service). Follow‐up services were led by nurses in four studies, and by a multidisciplinary team (nurses, doctors, and physiotherapists) in the fifth study. Consultations were given face‐to‐face at home or in a clinic, or were made on the telephone, or both. Participants had more than one consultation as part of the service, and in two studies participants had up to eight consultations. Although the design of follow‐up service consultations differed in each study, we noted that each service included assessment of participants' needs with referrals to specialist support if required. 
We found that follow‐up services may make little or no difference to people's health‐related quality of life 12 months after their stay in the ICU (1 study; 286 participants; low‐certainty evidence), and probably make little or no difference to the number of deaths after 12 months (5 studies; 1707 participants; moderate‐certainty evidence). Follow‐up services may make little or no difference to PTSD (3 studies; 703 participants; low‐certainty evidence). 
We are not confident in the evidence of whether using a follow‐up service reduces depression and anxiety (3 studies; 843 participants), physical function (4 studies; 1297 participants), cognitive function (4 studies; 1297 participants), or increases the ability to return to work or education (1 study; 386 participants); we assessed this evidence as very low certainty. No studies measured adverse effects. 
We had hoped to look at differences between types of ICU follow‐up service and between people who may or may not have experienced delirium, to give us more information about whether certain styles of service are better, or whether these services are more useful for people with different conditions. However, we found insufficient studies to be able to look at these differences. 
