Exercise for people with haemophilia
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence about the safety and usefulness of exercise for men with haemophilia. 
Background 
Haemophilia is a group of disorders in which one of the blood clotting proteins does not work properly. It mainly affects men, although women can also be affected. People with haemophilia bleed into their joints and muscles which can lead to painful chronic arthritis. 
Exercise is often used during recovery from a joint or muscle bleed and to maintain or improve a person's ability to function and participate in daily activities despite joint damage. 
We wanted to know if exercise was safe (that is, exercise does not cause additional bleeding) and whether exercise was able to improve muscle strength, joint mobility, pain, balance, gait, fitness, and overall functioning. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to: 14 December 2016.
Study characteristics 
We included eight studies with 233 male participants with haemophilia A or B (of any severity), aged eight to 49 years. Length of study ranged from four to 12 weeks. 
Key results 
Several types of exercise programs were studied, including stretching, strengthening with weights, exercise in water, treadmill walking, and exercise bicycle. Some studies compared participants who did one type of exercise with those who did another type of exercise; other studies compared an exercise group with a control group that did no exercise. 
There were no data relating to our primary outcomes which indicated whether bleed frequency changed after an exercise program. There were no adverse effects measured or reported. Quality of life was not measured. 
Regarding our secondary outcomes, improvements were seen in balance, joint health, and pain. Walking distance was the only functional status measured. 
In an unplanned additional analysis, improvements were seen in the range of motion, biceps perimeter; strength, and knee circumference. 
These small studies showed more improvements in pain, muscle strength and joint range of motion in exercise groups than in control groups. Studies that included functional activity, such as walking on a treadmill, showed more improvement than exercise alone. Exercise in water seems to be more effective than land exercise in relieving joint pain in adults. 
Quality of the evidence 
Four studies included only males with moderate haemophilia. Three studies included all severities of haemophilia and in one, participants used clotting factor prior to participating. Two studies included males with both haemophilia A and B; three studies did not specify type. Only one study limited their participants to those with severe haemophilia, and these also had osteoporosis. It is not clear whether the same results would be achieved if only males with severe haemophilia A were studied. 
The results should be interpreted with caution due to the quality of the evidence; we judged that all but one of the outcomes assessed were low or very low quality, due to small sample sizes and potential bias. 
