Vitamin A supplementation during pregnancy for maternal and newborn health outcomes
What is the issue? 
Vitamin A is a fat‐soluble vitamin found in liver, kidney, eggs, and dairy produce. Low dietary fat intake or intestinal infections may interfere with the absorption of vitamin A. Natural retinoids are required for a wide range of biological processes including vision, immune function, bone metabolism and blood production. In pregnancy, extra vitamin A may be required. Currently, the World Health Organization (WHO) and other international agencies recommend routine vitamin A supplementation during pregnancy or at any time during lactation in areas with endemic vitamin A deficiency (where night blindness occurs). 
Why is this important? 
It has been suggested that a low intake of vitamin A may be associated with complications in pregnancy such as death of the mother or baby, increased infections for the mother or baby, low iron level for the mother or baby or having a baby with any of the following complications: early delivery, low birthweight or a congential abnormality. 
What evidence did we find? 
This review included 19 studies involving over 310,000 women. Seven trials were conducted in Africa, six in Indonesia, two in Bangladesh, and one each in Nepal, China, India, UK and USA. Most of the trials were conducted in populations considered to be vitamin A deficient (except USA and UK). The overall risk of bias was low to unclear in most of the trials, and the body of evidence was moderate to high quality. The findings indicate that routine supplementation with vitamin A (either alone or in combination with other supplements) during pregnancy did not reduce mother or newborn baby deaths. There is good evidence that antenatal vitamin A supplementation does reduce maternal anaemia in women who live in areas where vitamin A deficiency is common or who are HIV‐positive. The trials published so far did not report any side effects or adverse events. The available evidence suggests a reduction in maternal infection but these data are not of a high quality and further trials would be needed to confirm or refute this. 
What does this mean? 
Taking vitamin A supplements during pregnancy does not help to prevent maternal deaths (related to pregnancy) or perinatal or newborn baby deaths. Taking vitamin A supplements during pregnancy does not help to prevent other problems that can occur such as stillbirth, preterm birth, low birthweight of babies or newborn babies with anaemia. However, the risk of maternal anaemia, maternal infection and maternal night blindness is reduced. 
