Lifestyle changes for treating psoriasis
Review question 
We wanted to see whether lifestyle changes (e.g. changing diet, exercising, and avoiding smoking and drinking alcohol), alone or combined, were useful in treating psoriasis when compared to no such changes or another psoriasis treatment. 
Background 
Psoriasis is a long‐lasting, inflammatory skin disease; it causes thick, red, itching, and scaling patches. Obesity, drinking, smoking, and an inactive lifestyle can worsen psoriasis. We intended to find out if lifestyle changes can improve psoriasis severity and quality of life, and reduce comorbidities (other conditions occurring alongside a primary condition). 
Trial characteristics 
We included 10 trials, with 1163 participants, which assessed the effects of low‐calorie diet alone; low‐calorie diet combined with an exercise programme; a combination of walking exercise and continuous health education; and educational instructions to promote a healthy lifestyle (diet, smoking, and alcohol abstinence). We examined the research evidence up to July 2018. 
Non‐profit organisations funded four trials, one trial received funding for the education programme from pharmaceutical companies, and the other five trials had no funding or did not report the funding source. All participants were aged at least 18 years (mean age: 43 to 61 years). Where reported, the trials included 656 men and 478 women; all were set in a hospital. In four trials, the participants were limited to people with moderate‐to‐severe psoriasis. One trial included participants who had initially been treated with oral medicines for moderate‐to‐severe psoriasis but whose psoriasis had not cleared after four weeks. In four trials, all severities of psoriasis were eligible, but these trials either did not report the participants’ psoriasis severity or only provided average severity scores. One trial included participants with mild psoriasis. Trials compared lifestyle change interventions with usual care (including to continue healthy eating), information only, no treatment, or medical treatment alone. Treatment was given for between 12 weeks to three years. 
Key results 
The following results are based on obese participants and compare lifestyle change interventions (low‐calorie diet) to usual care. A low‐calorie diet may reduce the severity of psoriasis (when assessed as the proportion of participants achieving at least 75% improvement from the start of treatment in the Psoriasis Area and Severity Index (PASI 75), a widely used tool for the measurement of psoriasis severity) (low‐quality evidence) and probably improves quality of life (moderate‐quality evidence). Participants on a low‐calorie diet may be more likely to stick to treatment (treatment adherence), but treatment effects vary so it is possible that it may make little or no difference (low‐quality evidence). A low‐calorie diet probably improves BMI (body mass index: a healthy weight calculator) (moderate‐quality evidence). The trials did not say how long they treated participants before they stopped dieting (time to relapse). 
