Laser‐assisted cataract surgery versus standard ultrasound phacoemulsification cataract surgery 
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out what the benefits and harms of laser‐assisted cataract surgery are compared with standard ultrasound phacoemulsification cataract surgery. Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 16 studies. 
Key messages  There is currently not enough evidence to determine the benefits and harms of laser‐assisted cataract surgery compared with standard ultrasound cataract surgery. The evidence is uncertain because current studies have not been large enough to provide a reliable answer to this question. 
What was studied in the review?  As people become older, the lens inside the eye can become cloudy. This is known as a cataract, and it is the leading cause of blindness in the world. Cataract surgery is one of the most commonly performed operations. During standard cataract surgery, the doctor removes the cloudy lens material and places an artificial lens in the remaining bag or capsule. The aim of laser‐assisted cataract surgery is to provide more precise control over the steps involved in cataract surgery. This could make it easier to do the operation more reliably, and faster, than if it is done in the standard way. This may result in fewer complications, such as tears to the person's lens capsule, which in turn could lead to better vision and quality of life for people who have had cataract surgery. 
What are the main results of the review?  The review authors found 16 relevant studies. Most studies (13) were from Europe and three studies were from Brazil, India and China. All these studies compared laser‐assisted cataract surgery with standard ultrasound phacoemulsification cataract surgery for people with cataracts. Eleven of the studies were either funded by the manufacturer of the laser machine or the investigators reported financial links with the manufacturer. 
