Do H1 antihistamine tablets or liquids help improve eczema symptoms in people who are already using creams or ointments for their eczema? 
Review question 
Are H1 antihistamines (which inhibit the action of chemicals released as part of an allergic reaction; known as 'histamines'), taken as tablets or liquid, effective and safe in people of any age with diagnosed eczema, if given in addition to creams and ointments, compared to treatment with an inactive substance (placebo) or nothing added to creams and ointments? 
Background 
Eczema (also known as 'atopic eczema/dermatitis') is a skin disorder frequently affecting both children and adults. In developed countries, 10% to 20% of all people are affected by eczema during their lifetime. The main symptom is itch, which results in scratching and, together with skin inflammation, frequently produces reddening of the skin. The symptoms of eczema can lead to sleeplessness and fatigue, lowering quality of life. Antihistamines are frequently given for itch (specifically H1 antihistamines taken by mouth), and they may alleviate the symptoms of eczema when given in addition to conventional treatments directly applied to the skin (e.g. emollients, moisturisers, steroid creams), although they are not thought to cure it. Many antihistamines are available without prescription, for instance, cetirizine or loratadine. Although H1 antihistamines are frequently prescribed for treating eczema, we do not know whether they are effective and safe. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for relevant studies up to May 2018. We included 25 randomised controlled trials with 3285 participants of all ages with diagnosed eczema. Eight studies included children or adolescents, and 17 included adults. The gender of participants and the severity of symptoms often were not reported. All studies were conducted in secondary care settings, including hospital clinics, research clinics, dermatology centres, and surgery centres, meaning that participants were likely to have more severe eczema than if recruitment occurred from first point of contact settings (i.e. primary care). All but one study compared H1 antihistamine versus placebo. Researchers studied 13 different H1 antihistamines, most of which were less sedating H1 antihistamines (known as 'second‐generation antihistamines'). Studies lasted between three days and 18 months. Seven trials received funding from pharmaceutical companies; they are the largest trials included in this review. 
Key results 
We found no convincing evidence that H1 antihistamines help patients with eczema.
One study compared cetirizine 0.5 mg/kg/d versus placebo (in children over a period of 18 months). No data were provided on patient‐assessed itch symptoms of eczema. Cetirizine is probably associated with fewer (mainly mild) adverse events and the need for slightly less additional H1 antihistamine to prevent flares. Even though physician‐assessed clinical signs were reduced in both groups, results show no differences between groups (all moderate‐quality evidence). 
When compared with placebo, we found no evidence that an increased dose of cetirizine 10 mg/d over four weeks makes a difference in terms of patient‐assessed itch, number of side effects, physician‐assessed signs, or number of eczema flares as measured by the amount of treatment used (all low‐quality evidence). Side effects reported in both groups included drowsiness, skin‐related problems, breathing issues, and headaches. 
