Exercise therapies for preventing or treating aromatase inhibitor‐induced musculoskeletal symptoms in early breast cancer 
What is the aim of this review? 
Aromatase inhibitors (AI) are a hormonal therapy used to treat a particular type of breast cancer in post‐menopausal women. However, they can cause joint and muscle pain (called aromatase inhibitor‐induced musculoskeletal symptoms, or AIMSS). The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out whether exercise therapies can reduce this pain in women undergoing treatment for early breast cancer. 
Key messages 
It is unclear if exercise improves, worsens, or makes no difference to pain, quality of life, grip strength, or the number of women continuing to take AI medication. Exercise likely results in little to no difference in stiffness in women suffering from AIMSS, although the certainty of this evidence was also low. Exercise is probably safe in women with AIMSS. 
What was studied in the review? 
Studies have shown a survival benefit for women when they take AIs for five to ten years after surgery, but unfortunately, they are associated with musculoskeletal side effects that may cause some women to stop taking their medication, which may have an impact on their survival. We looked at whether exercise could help prevent or treat the joint pains, stiffness and muscle aches from AIs that are being taken by women with breast cancer to prevent a recurrence. We looked at research studies of exercise compared to either usual care, being on a waiting list for an exercise treatment, or another exercise like walking, in women who had AIMSS. Women aged 18 years or older with early stage breast cancer being treated with AI were included. In most studies, the women had to have joint or muscle pains whilst being treated with an AI. 
We studied a number of outcomes, including changes in pain, stiffness, hand strength (grip strength), the number of women continuing to take AI medication, the quality of life of women on AI medication, and the safety of the exercise programmes. 
