Does extended‐field radiotherapy reduce death from locally advanced cervical cancer and what are the side effects? 
The issue Radiotherapy (RT) to the pelvis is used to treat cervical cancer. However, pelvic RT will not treat cancer that has spread to para‐aortic lymph nodes (lymph nodes lying along main blood vessels in the mid and upper stomach), since these are outside the target area (field) of RT. Extended‐field RT targets areas containing both pelvic and para‐aortic lymph nodes. Widening the RT field to include the para‐aortic area may reduce the risk of cancer returning. 
Chemotherapy is now normally given at the same time as RT for the treatment of cervical cancer (concurrent chemotherapy) and the combine treatment is called chemoradiotherapy (CRT). This is now standard treatment because studies have shown that addition of chemotherapy during RT improved survival for women with cervical cancer thought to be confined to the pelvis. Older studies, which compared treatments with pelvic RT alone, would not now be considered the standard of care for women well enough to have CRT. We cannot assume that results from studies which compared extended‐field RT with pelvic RT apply to modern CRT treatments. 
The aim of this review In women with locally advanced cervical cancer, does extending the RT field to cover the para‐aortic area reduce the risk of death from cervical cancer and what are the harms? 
Study characteristics We searched databases from their inception to August 2018 and found five studies that met the inclusion criteria. Three studies compared extended‐field RT versus pelvic RT. None of these three studies compared against the current gold‐standard of pelvic CRT. One study compared extended‐field RT versus pelvic CRT and one study compared extended‐field CRT versus pelvic CRT. 
What were the main findings? Compared with pelvic RT alone, women given extended‐field RT may have been less likely to die and probably were less likely to have a cervical cancer come back (recurrence) in the para‐aortic lymph nodes. However, extended‐field RT may have made little or no difference to how often their cancer recurred elsewhere and how often they experience severe side effects. 
Pelvic CRT is the modern standard of treatment for locally advanced cervical cancer. In a comparison of extended‐field RT alone versus pelvic CRT, women given pelvic CRT were probably less likely to die or have recurrence of their cancer. Women given extended‐field RT alone may have been less likely to experience a recurrence within the para‐aortic lymph nodes and have had adverse events during or shortly after treatment. There were no clear differences regarding the late adverse events between the two groups. 
Women given extended‐field CRT may or may not have been less likely to die or have cancer progression than those women pelvic CRT. There were no clear differences in the chances of experiencing a cancer recurrence in the para‐aortic lymph nodes and severe side effects between the groups. 
Certainty of the evidence The evidence for outcomes in the comparison of extended‐field RT alone versus pelvic RT alone were of moderate certainty. In the comparison of extended‐field RT versus pelvic CRT, the evidence regarding the survival and side effects were of moderate certainty. The evidence for para‐aortic recurrence was of low certainty. The evidence for all outcomes in a comparison of extended‐field CRT versus pelvic CRT were of very‐low certainty because of concerns regarding the high risk of bias and results coming from a single trial of very few women. 
What were the conclusions? We are moderately certain that, compared with pelvic RT alone, extended‐field RT probably improves overall survival and reduces risk of para‐aortic lymph node recurrence. However, pelvic RT alone would now not be considered the standard of care in women well enough to receive CRT, so these results should be reviewed with caution and cannot be extrapolated to modern treatment techniques. 
Low‐ to moderate‐certainty evidence supports the use of pelvic CRT rather than extended‐field RT alone, as it appears to reduce the risk of death and cancer progression. The likelihood of experiencing unwanted side effects during treatment was higher among women receiving pelvic CRT than extended‐field RT. Evidence comparing extended‐field CRT to pelvic CRT was very low certainty regarding outcomes and it may or may not improve survival. 
