Is three‐dimensional saline infusion sonography (3D SIS) better than two‐dimensional (2D) SIS for detecting polyps and fibroids? 
Review question 
Is three‐dimensional saline infusion sonography (3D SIS) better than two‐dimensional (2D) SIS for detecting polyps and fibroids? 
Background 
The womb (uterus) is one of the female reproductive organs. Inside the cavity of the womb, abnormalities such as polyps and fibroids can grow. Polyps and fibroids can cause problems such as abnormal menstrual bleeding and difficulty getting pregnant. The presence of these polyps and fibroids may be a reason for clinicians to start drug therapy or remove the polyps and fibroids during surgery. 
Ultrasonography can provide a picture of the womb and of possible fibroids or polyps. Saline or gel inside the cavity of the womb makes the ultrasound image more clear. This technique is called saline infusion sonography (SIS). Usually, this picture is only two‐dimensional. Nowadays, it is possible to make a three‐dimensional picture so the type of abnormality can be better seen. 
Study characteristics 
Review authors searched for studies published from inception until March 2016 and found 13 studies (in total 1053 women), eight of which directly compared 3D SIS versus 2D SIS. Data included all women reporting abnormal menstrual bleeding or difficulty getting pregnant. The number of patients in these studies varied from 23 to 180 women. 
Quality of the evidence 
In all studies, researchers checked the results of 2D SIS and 3D SIS against results obtained when a camera was used to look inside the womb (hysteroscopy); this is expected to give the true picture but is also more painful for the patient. All studies were performed in the usual way. Some studies did not report several items that might have influenced the results. For example, not all studies made it clear that the person evaluating the ultrasound pictures was unaware of the hysteroscopy results, and vice versa. The main problem involving the quality of included studies is insufficient reporting of study methods, resulting in unclear risk of bias for several of the quality domains assessed. Therefore, review authors considered the overall quality of the evidence as low. 
Key results 
Low‐quality evidence suggests that 3D SIS may be very accurate in detecting polyps and fibroids. Our analysis revealed no clear differences between 2D SIS and 3D SIS. Summary results are higher for 3D SIS but margins of improvement are limited because 2D SIS is already very accurate. Results show that 2D SIS missed a fibroid or polyp in 9 of 100 women and 3D SIS missed a polyp or fibroid in 3 of 100 women who had them. In 4 of 100 women, 2D SIS indicated the presence of polyps or fibroids when there were none, and in less than 1 in 100 women, 3D SIS was wrong. In theory, if both tests were used in a group of 1000 women with abnormal menstrual bleeding, 300 with fibroids or polyps, 27 of the 300 women with polyps/fibroids will be missed by 2D SIS, and 9 of 300 will be missed by 3D SIS. 
3D SIS is an alternative to 2D SIS for which the technology and appropriate expertise are available. Both 2D SIS and 3D SIS should be considered alternatives to diagnostic hysteroscopy when intracavitary pathology is suspected in subfertile women and in those with abnormal uterine bleeding. 
