Abdominal wall lift for people undergoing gallbladder removal by a key‐hole operation
Key‐hole removal of the gallbladder (laparoscopic cholecystectomy) is currently the preferred treatment for people with symptoms related to gallstones in the gallbladder. This is generally performed by distending the tummy (abdomen) using carbon dioxide gas (pneumoperitoneum) so that there is adequate space for instruments and to visualise the structures within the abdomen. This enables the surgeons to identify and divide the appropriate structures. However, distending the abdominal wall can result in various physiological changes that affect the functioning of the heart or lungs. These changes are more pronounced at higher pressures of the gas used to distend the abdomen. They are generally tolerated well in people with a low risk of anaesthetic problems. However, those with pre‐existing illnesses may not tolerate this distension of the abdomen well. So, an alternate method of enabling the surgeons to visualise the structures in the abdomen and to use instruments by lifting up the abdominal wall using special devices (abdominal wall lift) has been suggested for people undergoing laparoscopic cholecystectomy. We reviewed all the relevant information from randomised trials (a type of study which provides the best information on whether one treatment is better than the other, if conducted properly) in the literature to find out if abdominal wall lift is better than distending the abdomen using carbon dioxide gas. We adopted methods to identify all the possible studies and used methods that decrease the errors in data collection. 
Abdominal wall lift with pneumoperitoneum versus pneumoperitoneum  A total of 130 participants (all with low anaesthetic risk) were included in five trials which compared abdominal wall lift combined with very low pressure pneumoperitoneum and standard pneumoperitoneum. All five trials had a high risk of bias (introducing the possibility of overestimating benefits or underestimating the harms of abdominal wall lift). No‐one died as a result of surgery. There was no significant difference in the rate of serious complications related to the surgery. None of the trials reported quality of life, the proportion of people discharged as laparoscopic cholecystectomy day‐patients, or pain between four and eight hours after the operation. None required conversion of key‐hole surgery to an open operation using a larger incision. There was no significant difference in the operating time between the two groups. 
