Endoluminal (via blood vessels) or open surgery treatments to prevent blockage in vein grafts following bypass treatment for limb‐threatening peripheral arterial disease 
Background 
Bypass surgery (i.e. taking a vein from the same or opposite leg (graft) and using it to carry blood from above to below the blocked, damaged, or dilated artery) is a surgical procedure that is often used to treat symptomatic lower limb peripheral arterial disease (disease in which the blood vessels are narrowed or blocked), lower limb aneurysm (blood vessel expansion like a balloon), and major vascular trauma of the lower limb. This is a well‐recognised treatment option with excellent results for preservation of the limb and durability of the graft, but the graft can develop narrowing (stenosis), which can compromise its function. There are two options for treating these stenoses before occlusion of the venous bypass: open surgical intervention and endoluminal interventions. Open surgical procedures have long durability, but they are invasive procedures. Such interventions can lead to postoperative wound complications. Endoluminal treatments are less invasive. These treatments may be associated with fewer postoperative complications but may have less durability when compared to open surgical treatment. This review was conducted to investigate if it is better to have an open or an endoluminal intervention to treat stenosis in vein graft bypass. 
Study characteristics and key results 
We searched for evidence that directly compared endoluminal interventions with open surgical intervention for stenosis in vein grafts following infrainguinal bypass (good to 25 August 2020). We did not find any randomised controlled trials (clinical studies in which people are divided by chance between two or more treatment groups) on this topic. Further research is needed to help vascular and endovascular surgeons and their patients in choosing the best option for treatment of vein graft stenosis following leg bypass. 
Reliability of the evidence 
We did not find any studies, so we could not assess any evidence.
Conclusion 
We found no RCTs that compared endoluminal interventions versus surgical intervention for vein graft stenosis following leg bypass. High‐quality studies that provide evidence on managing vein graft stenosis following infrainguinal bypass are needed. 
