Surgical removal of bony wall or orbital fat for thyroid eye disease
Thyroid eye disease is an autoimmune disorder affecting 30% to 50% of patients with Graves' disease. Severe forms present in 3% to 5% of patients with reduced vision due to pressure on the optic nerve. The disease is more frequent in women and it significantly impairs the quality of life of affected patients. The clinical presentation is characterised by inflammation of the orbital contents which increases the volume of fat and muscles, resulting in forward placement of the eyes (exophthalmos), retraction of the eyelids and double vision. Multiple surgical procedures may be required for correction after initial medical treatment has proven ineffective. 
Orbital decompression is achieved by removing bony wall (usually medial, inferior, lateral, or combination), orbital fat or both. It is an established procedure to correct exophthalmos for visual improvement in patients with optic neuropathy (damage to the optic nerve; in thyroid eye disease this is as a result of enlarged muscles compressing the optic nerve), corneal involvement due to inability to close the lids and for rehabilitating patients with marked anterior positioning of the eyes. 
The literature suggests that three‐wall decompressions were chosen for patients with high degrees of proptosis and two‐wall for those with less exophthalmos. Fat removal in addition to bone removal may increase the safety and effectiveness of the procedure. 
Several approaches with contradicting results have been published in the literature. Comparison of different procedures has been biased by inclusion of different indications and outcome measures, in different stages of the disease. 
Two eligible studies were included in the review. These studies vary significantly in interventions, methodology and reported outcomes. One study reported that removal of the inferior wall through the antrum and removal of the medial wall through the nose had similar effects in reducing exophthalmos but the latter had fewer complications. This study was disadvantaged by short‐term follow‐up and did not report on our primary outcome measure (success or failure of treatment). The second study suggested that intravenous corticosteroids achieve better visual recovery (56%) than surgical decompression (17%) as a first line treatment for optic neuropathy. It suggested that fewer secondary surgical procedures were required when treated with intravenous corticosteroids but their use related more frequently to side effects with short duration. This study was weakened by the small number of participants involved. 
Until more evidence is available we cannot recommend any particular intervention. This review has identified a need for more randomised controlled trials to provide further reliable evidence on the effective use of orbital decompression for thyroid ophthalmopathy. These trials should review the balanced two‐wall, three‐wall and orbital fat decompression techniques. These studies should address the reduction of exophthalmos, disease severity, complication rates, quality of life and cost of the intervention. 
