Budesonide for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease
Budesonide is a corticosteroid drug which is rapidly broken down by the liver, reducing corticosteroid‐related side effects (e.g., moon face). Research showing that budesonide is effective in treating active Crohn's disease has led to clinical trials examining the effect of budesonide on reducing disease recurrence in non‐active Crohn's disease. 
This review identified 12 studies that included a total of 1273 participants. Eight studies compared budesonide with placebo (e.g. a sugar pill), one study compared budesonide to mesalamine (an anti‐inflammatory drug), one study compared budesonide to traditional systemic corticosteroids, one compared budesonide to azathioprine (an immunosuppressive drug), and one compared two doses of budesonide. Pooled analyses show that budesonide 6 mg daily was no more effective than placebo for maintenance of remission at 3 months (6 studies, 540 patients), 6 months (5 studies, 420 patients) or 12 months (5 studies, 420 patients). A pooled analysis showed that budesonide 3 mg daily was more effective than placebo for maintaining remission at 3 months (4 studies, 163 patients). However, there was no difference in continued remission rates between budesonide 3 mg/day and placebo at 6 months (3 studies, 180 patients) or 12 months (5 studies, 442 patients). The overall quality of the evidence from the studies comparing budesonide to placebo was rated as moderate due to lack of precision of the results. One study (90 patients) found no difference in continued remission rates at 12 months between budesonide and prednisolone. The overall quality of the evidence from this study was rated as low due to lack of precision of results and low methodological quality. One study (77 patients) found no difference in continued remission rates at 12 months between budesonide and azathioprine.The overall quality of the evidence from this study was rated as very low due to lack of precision of results and low methodological quality. One study (57 patients) found that budesonide (6 mg/day) was better than mesalamine for continued remission at 12 months. The overall quality of the evidence from this study was rated as very low due to lack of precision of results and low methodological quality. No differences in effectiveness were found for different doses or formulations of budesonide. The use of budesonide 6 mg/day resulted in slight improvements in Crohn's disease activity index (CDAI) scores when assessed at 6 months (5 studies, 420 patients) and 12 months (5 studies, 420 patients) and mean time to relapse of disease (4 studies, 171 patients). Mean time to relapse was significantly shorter for patients receiving budesonide than for those receiving azathioprine. Side effects were not more common in patients treated with budesonide compared to placebo. These side effects were relatively minor and did not result in increased rates of study withdrawal. Commonly reported treatment‐related side effects included acne, round face, body hair growth, mood swings, insomnia, weight gain, stretch marks, and hair loss. Abnormal adrenocorticoid stimulation tests were seen more frequently in patients receiving both budesonide 6 mg daily and 3 mg daily compared to placebo. The results of this review suggest budesonide is not effective for maintenance of remission in Crohn's disease, particularly when used beyond three months following induction of remission. Budesonide does have minor benefits in terms of lower CDAI scores and longer time to relapse of disease. However, these benefits are offset by higher treatment‐related side effect rates and more frequent adrenocorticoid suppression in patients receiving budesonide. 
