Use of treatments to dislodge soft foods stuck between the throat and the stomach to try to avoid the need for an endoscopy 
Review question 
Can a period of observation, treatment with swallowed substances, or treatment with substances given via the blood help to dislodge soft foods that are stuck between the throat and the stomach in order to avoid the need for an endoscopic procedure to clear it? 
Background 
Food can sometimes get stuck in the oesophagus, the pipe connecting the throat to the stomach that passes through the chest. This food often dislodges on its own, without any medical help, but occasionally a doctor's help is needed to clear it. Removing or dislodging these lumps of food can be done using a flexible camera or a rigid instrument, called an endoscope, but endoscopic procedures can have serious complications, like causing holes in the oesophagus. However, waiting for too long for the food to clear on its own can also increase the risk of a hole in the oesophagus and may lead to saliva or food falling into the lungs, causing serious infections. A variety of treatments are currently used to try to clear the food, without having to resort to an endoscopy, many of which also have potential side effects, including difficulty breathing, increased blood sugar levels, low blood pressure, and irregular heartbeat. We wanted to know if any of these treatments were better than simply waiting for the food to clear on its own, before trying to dislodge it with instruments. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to August 2019. We found one trial suitable to answer our question, which compared giving a patient two drugs into a vein in (diazepam and glucagon) to placebos (clear liquids which appeared similar to the drugs but have no effect on the body). We did not look at treating sharp or hard objects, as these are treated differently. 
Key results 
There was not enough evidence to say with certainty which treatments for food impacted in the oesophagus are safe or effective. 
Quality of the evidence 
We graded the overall certainty of the evidence as low. More studies with more participants are needed to be able to answer the review question. 
