Periodic change of body position under phototherapy in term and preterm neonates with hyperbilirubinaemia 
Review question 
Does changing babies’ position improve the results of light therapy for full‐term and premature babies with jaundice? 
Key messages 
In this systematic review, we evaluated studies comparing scheduled repositioning and no scheduled repositioning of full‐term and premature babies having light therapy for jaundice. These two positioning strategies resulted in little or no difference in the length of time light therapy lasted or the rate at which bilirubin levels fell. Bilirubin is the substance that causes jaundice, which is yellowing of the skin and the whites of the eyes.  
None of the studies included in the review reported the effect of changing babies’ positions on unwanted effects, including sudden infant death syndrome.  
Future studies should investigate scheduled repositioning of babies under light therapy whilst including very premature babies and babies experiencing all types of jaundice. 
What is jaundice? 
Jaundice (also called hyperbilirubinaemia) is a common condition in newborn babies that causes the skin and the whites of the eyes to become yellow, which is the result of too much bilirubin in the blood. Bilirubin is a yellow substance that is produced when red blood cells break down. As the livers of newborn babies cannot remove bilirubin from their blood effectively, the levels build up. In some cases, babies end up with very high levels of bilirubin in their blood, which can cause brain damage. Once babies are about two weeks old, their livers can process bilirubin, and jaundice gets better by itself.  
How is jaundice treated? 
The most common treatment for jaundice is light therapy (phototherapy). Babies are placed underneath a special light, with their eyes covered, wearing just a nappy (diaper), so that as much skin as possible is exposed to the light. Phototherapy breaks down the bilirubin, which can then be passed out of the body. Some babies might get a rash or diarrhoea with phototherapy, but it usually does not cause unwanted effects. It usually takes about 48 hours of phototherapy to reduce bilirubin to a safe level in most babies. 
What did we want to find out? 
Turning babies onto their back and then their sides during phototherapy exposes different areas of skin to the light and might reduce bilirubin levels more quickly. We wanted to find out if phototherapy is more effective if babies are turned over at set times, compared to keeping them in one position.  
