Iodine supplementation for women before, during or after pregnancy
What is the issue? 
It is estimated that over 1.8 billion people worldwide do not get enough iodine in their diet, putting them at risk of iodine deficiency. Iodine is an essential nutrient needed in small amounts for the body to make thyroid hormones. The World Health Organization (WHO) recommends that iodine is added to salt to prevent problems caused by lack of iodine. Women who are pregnant or breastfeeding need extra iodine, which puts them at greater risk of deficiency. The breast milk contains iodine for the infant. 
Why is this important? 
Thyroid function is increased during pregnancy as thyroid hormones produced by the mother (and the baby as the pregnancy progresses) are essential for growth and development of the baby and to regulate the development of the brain and nervous system. Nervous tissue begins to develop as early as the second month of pregnancy. If women have too little iodine during pregnancy or infants have too little during early childhood, the damage may be irreversible. Research has shown that severe iodine deficiency can stunt children's normal physical growth as well as harm normal mental development, resulting in lower intelligence quotients. Less is known about the consequences of mild or moderate deficiency. Too much iodine can also cause harm and have negative effects on mothers and babies, for example by causing the thyroid to become overactive. 
Although salt is the commonly the main source of iodine, expert medical groups recommend that women in many countries take iodine supplements during and following pregnancy to help ensure their iodine needs are met. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in November 2016 and identified 14 randomised controlled trials of iodine supplements in the form of tablets, capsules, drops or injections before, during or after pregnancy. Eleven trials with over 2700 women contributed findings to the review. Eight trials compared iodine with no treatment or a placebo and three trials compared iodine given with other vitamins and minerals against only the vitamins and minerals. 
Women who received iodine supplements were less likely to develop the unwanted effect of hyperthyroidism (an overactive thyroid gland) after giving birth (three trials involving 543 women) but they were more likely to experience nausea or vomiting during pregnancy (one trial involving 76 women) when compared to those who did not receive iodine. One trial (365 women) did not find any difference in the number of women with an overactive thyroid gland during pregnancy. The number of women with an underactive thyroid gland (hypothyroidism) was not clearly different either during pregnancy (one trial involving 365 women) or after giving birth (three trials involving 540 women) when iodine supplements were given. A similar number of women had raised thyroid antibodies during pregnancy (one trial, 359 women) and after giving birth (three trials, 397 women). We found no clear differences between women given iodine supplements and those not when looking at preterm births (two trials, 376 women) or deaths around the time of giving birth (two trials, 457 women), babies born with a low birthweight (two trials, 377 babies), newborn babies with an underactive thyroid gland (two trials, 260 babies) or with raised thyroid antibodies (one trial, 108 babies). 
The quality of the evidence was low to very low, mostly because few trials looked at each outcome or because of limitations in the study designs. Most of the findings were from one or two trials and small numbers of women were included. This means we are not confident in the results. 
