Exposure to the smell and taste of milk to accelerate feeding in preterm infants
Review question 
We reviewed the evidence available from clinical studies to find out about exposing infants born early (preterm) to the smell and taste of milk with feedings given by a tube which goes through the nose or mouth into the stomach. We compared this with not exposing preterm infants to the smell and taste of milk during tube feeds, to see which approach would decrease the time required to achieve full sucking feeds, without causing side effects. 
Background 
Preterm infants often need to be fed via a thin tube inserted through the mouth or nose into the stomach (orogastric or nasogastric) until they are able to suck all of their feeds. Initially, only small volumes of milk are given, and this is gradually increased depending on how well feeds are tolerated. Infants who are fed by tube may not experience the smell and taste of milk because the milk is placed directly into the stomach. Smell and taste have a significant role in assisting with digestion and absorption of food. Therefore, providing some milk for the infant to smell and to taste when milk is given via an orogastric or nasogastric tube could potentially help them tolerate greater volumes of milk more quickly. 
Study characteristics 
In a search up to 1 June 2018, we identified three completed studies involving 161 preterm infants admitted to a neonatal intensive care unit (NICU) at a tertiary hospital. One study involved 51 preterm infants, and each infant had an equal chance of being chosen to receive either treatment (a randomised controlled trial). One study involved 80 preterm infants who were sequentially assigned to control and treatment groups (a quasi‐randomised trial). One study was a prospective randomised trial involving 30 infants, but the way it was reported meant there was not enough information for us to include in our analyses. 
Key results 
We found that exposure to the smell and taste of milk with orogastric or nasogastric tube feedings had no clear effect on the time to reach full sucking feeds. One study reported no adverse effects. Exposure to the smell and taste of milk also had no clear effect on time to reach full tube feeding, feed tolerance, incidence of late infection and severe intestinal infection, duration of intravenous nutrition, and growth. Very low‐quality evidence from two studies suggested that exposure to the smell and taste of milk decreased the length of hospital stay by almost four days compared to no exposure to the smell and taste of milk. However, the included studies were small and had several limitations in terms of how they were done. 
Conclusion 
Exposure to the smell and taste of milk with orogastric or nasogastric tube feedings may decrease length of hospitalisation for preterm infants. However, the effect of this treatment to accelerate feeding in preterm infants is uncertain due to limited and very low‐quality evidence. Future research needs to explore the effect of exposure to the smell and taste of milk with tube feedings on important clinical outcomes, such as time to full sucking feeds, adverse effects, time to reach full tube feedings, feed tolerance, incidence of infection, and growth. 
