Chinese herbal medicines for osteoporosis
Review question 
We conducted a review of the effects of Chinese herbal medicines for people with primary osteoporosis. We found 108 studies with 10,655 people. 
Background: what is primary osteoporosis and what are Chinese herbal medicines? 
Bone is a living, growing part of your body. Throughout your lifetime, new bone cells grow and old bone cells break down to make room for the new, stronger bone. When you have osteoporosis, the old bone breaks down faster than the new bone can replace it. As this happens, the bones lose minerals (such as calcium). This makes bones weaker and more likely to break even after a minor injury, like a little bump or fall. 
Chinese herbal medicines are products made from any part of medicinal plants (leaves, stems, buds, flowers or roots). Sometimes non‐plant based components (for example insects, deer horn, snake, various shells and powdered fossil) are included. These can be used in the form of raw plant materials, or water or alcohol extracts of raw plant materials. Herbs can also be taken by mouth as capsules, tablets or liquids, or as injections. 
Chinese herbal medicines are widely used in China for primary osteoporosis but their benefits and harms have not been appraised in order to inform clinical practice. 
Study characteristics 
After searching for all relevant studies up to January 2013, we found 108 studies with 10,655 people with osteoporosis. Ninety‐nine different Chinese herbal medicines were tested and compared with placebo (three trials), no intervention (five trials) or conventional medicine (61 trials), or Chinese herbal medicines plus conventional medicine were compared with conventional medicine (47 trials). The average length of treatment was 5.7 months (ranging from 3 to 12 months). 
Key results: what happens to people with osteoporosis who take Chinese herbal medicines? 
New fractures 
We are uncertain whether Chinese herbal medicines reduce the chance of having a new bone fracture. Seven trials evaluated the incidence of fractures. However, these trials were small and had flaws in their methods. 
Quality of life 
People who took Bushenhuoxue therapy plus calcium carbonate tablets and alfacalcidol rated their quality of life to be 5.30 points better on a scale of 0 to 100 after three months compared to people who did not take the herbal medicine. 
People who took Bushenhuoxue therapy plus calcium carbonate tablets and alfacalcidol rated their quality of life to be 56.05 on a scale of 0 to 100. 
People who took calcium carbonate tablets and alfacalcidol rated their quality of life to be 50.75 on a scale of 0 to 100. 
Serious side effects or deaths 
No serious side effects or deaths occurred in the trials.
We often do not have precise information about side effects and complications. This is particularly true for rare but serious side effects. Possible side effects may include a mild stomach ache or diarrhoea. 
Bone mineral density (the amount and type of minerals in the bone) 
We found studies that compared Chinese herbal medicines with placebo (fake treatment), with no treatment and with conventional medicine. We also found studies that compared Chinese herbal medicines plus conventional medication with just conventional medication. 
Compared to placebo (fake treatment), three studies showed that bone mineral density increased slightly with Chinese herbal medicines. 
Compared to no treatment or conventional medicine, some studies showed an increase in bone mineral density with Chinese herbal medicines while others did not. 
