School‐based education programmes for the prevention of unintentional injuries in children and young people 
About the review question 
We looked at the evidence on the effects of programmes in schools that aimed to prevent accidental injuries in children and young people. Preventing injuries in children is important because injuries are common in this age group and the effects on the child and the family can be severe and long‐lasting. Schools are potentially a good setting within which to provide education programmes aimed at preventing such injuries occurring. However, it has not been examined in detail whether this works or not. We found 27 studies to help us address this question. 
Background 
We wanted to discover whether teaching children in school education about injury prevention resulted in them having fewer injuries, improved their knowledge about injury prevention and improved their behaviours in relation to safety. We also wanted to assess whether this type of approach was good value for money. 
Study characteristics 
The evidence is current to June 2015. It includes the results from 27 studies of 73,557 children. It included boys and girls aged four to 18. The studies compared injury prevention education with either the usual curriculum or an alternative programme unrelated to injuries. The studies we included were aimed at preventing a range of injuries. We excluded programmes that focused on just one cause of injury. The review measured the effects of the educational programmes on the occurrence of injuries in children, their safety skills, behaviour and knowledge. The review also looked at whether school‐based approaches are good value for money. 
Key results 
Only a few studies reported the effect on injury occurrence in children and so these effects were inconclusive. This does not mean that school‐based programmes are ineffective but rather that more evidence is needed. The review did find evidence that school‐based injury prevention education programmes can improve children's safety skills, safety behaviours and safety knowledge. However, the evidence was inconsistent, with some studies showing a positive effect and others showing no effect. Only one study reported on how cost‐effective school‐based programmes were and so again it is difficult to draw conclusions from this evidence alone. 
Quality of the evidence 
The studies were generally of poor quality for all the measurements of effectiveness of the programmes but particularly for behaviour and knowledge. This is because information about how the study was conducted was not usually reported very clearly in the study reports or there were major flaws in the way that the studies were undertaken. More research is needed that is of higher quality. 
