Prone (face‐down) position for mechanical ventilation of adults with acute respiratory failure 
Review question 
This review sought to investigate whether face‐down ventilation could improve important outcomes by, for instance, reducing the death rate (mortality) among individuals requiring mechanical ventilation in intensive care. We also wanted to identify disadvantages and complications associated with prone positioning, as well as long‐term benefits. 
Background 
People who are admitted to an intensive care unit and need assistance with breathing provided by a ventilator (mechanical ventilation) because of lung damage caused by illness have a high risk of dying. Lungs that are affected by conditions such as pneumonia will consist of normal and abnormal or diseased areas. Recovery of diseased areas takes time, and a person may need support with ventilation while this occurs. Ventilation support is potentially lifesaving, as it maintains proper oxygen levels in the blood while removing carbon dioxide waste. However, the ventilator itself can cause inflammation and thus additional lung complications. The harder a ventilator has to work to achieve normal oxygenation and removal of carbon dioxide, the more likely it is that healthy, normal areas of the lung may be damaged, and the person's condition made worse. Ventilation with the person lying face‐down (prone) instead of face‐up (supine) might improve how well the ventilator works, thereby reducing these undesirable side effects. 
Search date 
The evidence is current to 01 May 2020.
Study characteristics 
We identified and included in this review randomized controlled trials of adults that compared conventional mechanical ventilation in the face‐down versus the face‐up position. 
Key results 
Reports from nine trials of 2165 participants (12 publications) show that prone ventilation did not appear to be of benefit for all participants requiring ventilation. The evidence suggested some situations in which it may improve survival. One group of participants with the most severe lung damage appeared to have reduced mortality, as did participants who received treatment early and for prolonged periods. Complications were described. The most common of these were pressure sores (or ulcers) and tracheal tube blockage or obstruction. Low blood pressure and abnormal heart rhythms were also seen. The application of prone position to all participants in intensive care who have low oxygen levels was not supported by the evidence identified, but some particular groups of participants, for example, those with especially low oxygen levels, may benefit from prone positioning. Further clinical trials would assist in clarifying potential benefits for such patient groups but further trials may not take place because of the very large treatment benefit observed in the most recent clinical trial of participants with very low oxygen levels. In the absence of new trials, meta‐analysis of individual patient data may facilitate further assessment as well as further observational studies in at risk populations. 
