Antibody induction versus placebo, no induction, or another type of antibody induction for liver transplant recipients 
Background  Antibodies against T‐cells are used to induce immunosuppression after liver transplantation. These antibodies are intended to reduce rejection of the transplanted liver and are given within the first two weeks after transplantation. Furthermore, these antibodies may allow for delayed introduction of calcineurin inhibitors to protect kidney function. 
Different types of antibodies have been used: interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists (BT563, daclizumab, or basiliximab), monoclonal antibodies specific for the CD3 receptor (muromonab‐CD3) or the CD52 surface protein (alemtuzumab), or polyclonal antibodies of horse or rabbit (antithymocyte globulin (ATG) or antilymphocyte globulin (ALG)). The benefits and harms of these antibodies are unclear. 
This systematic review aimed to evaluate the use of antibodies against T‐cells after liver transplantation. The question is whether T‐cell antibody induction has a role after liver transplantation, and which antibody works best with the least number of adverse events. 
Aim  We wanted to discover whether antibody induction therapy was better or worse than therapy without T‐cell specific antibodies for induction of immunosuppression after liver transplantation, and whether one type of antibody is better than another type of antibody. We systematically searched medical databases and found 19 randomised clinical trials including 25 comparisons that investigated the use of different types of T‐cell specific antibodies in 2067 patients after they had received their liver transplant. All of these trials had high risk of bias (that is, risk of overestimation of benefits and underestimation of harms). We compared randomised clinical trials assessing T‐cell specific antibody induction versus no T‐cell specific antibody induction or versus another type of T‐cell specific antibody induction. These trials assessed interleukin‐2 receptor antagonists versus no antibody induction (1454 patients, 10 trials); monoclonal T‐cell specific antibody versus no antibody induction (398 patients, five trials); polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody versus no T‐cell specific antibody induction (145 patients, three trials); interleukin‐2 receptor antagonist versus monoclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction (87 patients, one trial); and interleukin‐2 receptor antagonist versus polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction (112 patients, two trials). 
Results  From our results we were unable to determine the effects of antibody induction on mortality, graft loss including death, adverse events, infection, CMV infection, hepatitis C recurrence, malignancy, post‐transplant lymphoproliferative disease, renal failure requiring dialysis, hyperlipidaemia, diabetes mellitus, or hypertension for any of the comparisons. Acute rejection may be reduced when any kind of T‐cell specific antibody induction was compared with no induction and when trial sequential analysis, which we used to control for random errors, was applied. Furthermore, serum creatinine was statistically significantly higher in the T‐cell specific antibody induction group compared with the no induction group, as well as in the polyclonal T‐cell specific antibody induction group compared with the no induction group. 
Conclusion  The effects of T‐cell antibody induction remain uncertain because of high risk of bias of the randomised clinical trials, the small number of randomised clinical trials reported, and the limited numbers of participants and outcomes in the trials. T‐cell specific antibody induction seems to reduce acute rejection when compared with no induction. No other clear benefits or harms were associated with the use of any kind of T‐cell specific antibody induction compared with no induction, or when compared with another type of T‐cell specific antibody. Hence, more randomised clinical trials are needed to assess the benefits and harms of T‐cell specific antibody induction compared with placebo, and compared with another type of antibody, for prevention of rejection in liver transplant recipients. Such trials ought to be conducted with low risk of systematic error (bias) and low risk of random error (play of chance). 
