Treatment for epilepsy in pregnant women and the development of the child
Background 
For most women who have epilepsy it is important for their health that they continue their medication during pregnancy. Over the last 25 years research has shown that children exposed to these medications in the womb can be at a higher risk of having a birth defect or poorer level of development. 
Research question 
This review aimed to understand whether exposure to antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) during pregnancy is linked to poorer levels of ability for skills such as IQ, language and memory (neurodevelopment). 
Characteristics of the studies 
The review included 28 studies. Participants were women with epilepsy taking commonly used AEDs who were compared to either women without epilepsy or women who had epilepsy but who were not treated with AEDs. Comparisons were also made between children exposed to different AEDs in the womb. The evidence presented in this review was up to date to May 2014. 
Results 
‐ The evidence for younger children exposed to carbamazepine (CBZ) in the womb was conflicting, however this was likely to be due to differences in the way that these studies were carried out. In older children those exposed to CBZ were not poorer in their IQ than children who were not exposed. No link was found between the dose of CBZ and child ability. 
‐ Both younger and older children exposed in the womb to sodium valproate (VPA) showed poorer cognitive development in comparison to children not exposed and children exposed to other AEDs. A link between dose of VPA and child ability was found in six studies; with higher doses of the drug linked to a lower IQ ability in the child. The level of this difference was likely to increase the risk of poorer educational levels. 
‐ Children exposed to CBZ in the womb did not differ in their skills from children exposed to lamotrigine (LTG), however very few studies investigated this. There were also no differences between children exposed to phenytoin (PHT) in the womb and those exposed to CBZ or those exposed to LTG. 
