Maternal probiotic supplementation for prevention of morbidity and mortality in preterm infants 
Review question Do probiotics given to pregnant women prior to delivery and/or probiotics given to mothers of premature babies after birth compared with administration of placebo, no intervention or postnatal administration of probiotics to premature babies themselves reduce the risk of morbidity and mortality in premature babies? 
Background Inflammation may contribute to premature birth and to morbidity of premature babies. Premature babies are at risk for alterations in the growth of normal "good" bacteria in their intestinal tract. Probiotics are supplements of "good bacteria." Giving these bacteria directly to premature babies may decrease inflammation and decrease the risk for severe gastrointestinal disease (necrotizing enterocolitis) as well as the risk of death. However, there are safety concerns about administration of probiotics directly to premature babies. 
Study characteristics Twelve eligible trials with a total of 1450 mothers and 1204 known infants were included from searches, up to date as of March 2017. Eleven trials gave probiotics to mothers during pregnancy and one trial gave probiotics to mothers after the birth of their preterm infants. No studies compared maternal probiotic administration directly versus neonatal administration.The studies of pregnant women focused on various aspects of the studies with different probiotics given at different times. The pregnant women included in these trials were overall at low risk for preterm birth. The one trial with mothers given probiotics after birth was to mothers of infants who weighed less than 1500 g at birth. 
Key results There is insufficient evidence to conclude whether there is appreciable benefit or harm to neonates of either oral supplementation of probiotics administered to pregnant women at low risk for preterm birth or oral supplementation of probiotics to mothers of preterm infants after birth. There were no trials that gave mothers at high risk for having a premature infant probiotics, so the effects of probiotics given to those mothers is unknown. More studies are needed to know if probiotics given to mothers of preterm infants decreases death, necrotizing enterocolitis, or other problems related to prematurity. 
Quality of evidence In general, the evidence was of low to very low quality due to imprecision (small sample sizes) and indirectness (enrolled mothers were not necessarily at high risk for delivering their babies early). 
