Are mixed‐speciality (multidisciplinary) teams the best way to help older people recover from hip fracture? 
Key messages 
‐ Compared with usual care, care provided by a team of healthcare professionals with different specialities (multidisciplinary rehabilitation teams) led by a geriatrician or other medical specialist may help more older people in hospital to recover after a hip fracture. 
‐ We don’t know if multidisciplinary rehabilitation is better than usual care after hospital discharge because there is insufficient evidence. 
‐ Future research should aim to identify the best treatments provided by the mix of specialties that make up multidisciplinary teams, so people can leave hospital early and be supported in the community. 
How are hip fractures treated? 
Hip fractures are common but serious injuries in older people. About a third of people with hip fractures die within a year of their injury. People with hip fractures may also have other conditions that slow their recovery. Many do not regain the mobility and independence they had before the fracture, and may need residential care in a nursing home afterwards. 
Usual care for people with hip fracture is surgery, followed by therapy on the hospital ward to restore mobility and basic functions of daily living, such as bathing and dressing. This may involve people from other departments in the hospital. However, people with hip fractures need help with a range of activities, and may suffer mental as well as physical problems after surgery. So, a better approach to help their recovery, or ‘rehabilitation’, may be to involve a team of people with expertise from different areas, or ‘disciplines’. They develop a rehabilitation plan for each person, depending on their needs. This ‘multidisciplinary rehabilitation’ team, which is typically led by a doctor specialising in the care of older people or other medical specialist in rehabilitation, could also include other doctors, nurses, physiotherapists, dieticians, social workers and mental health specialists. Multidisciplinary rehabilitation could take place in hospital, in acute (short‐stay treatment) or rehabilitation wards, or in a person's home residence. Some types of multidisciplinary rehabilitation involve early discharge from hospital with support at home. 
What did we want to find out? 
We wanted to know if multidisciplinary rehabilitation helps people recover better from hip fracture than usual care. We were particularly interested in how many people had a ‘poor outcome’ at up to a year after surgery; that is, whether they died or were more dependent such that they needed to be cared for in a nursing home. We also looked at: 
‐ health‐related quality of life;‐ deaths;‐ need for help with daily activities;‐ mobility; and‐ pain. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared multidisciplinary rehabilitation with usual care in older people after hip fracture surgery. 
We compared and summarised the results of the studies and rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes. 
What did we find? 
We found 28 studies with 5351 older people who’d had hip fracture surgery. They were aged on average from 76.5 to 87 years and most were women. 
Main results 
Multidisciplinary rehabilitation after surgery compared with usual care in hospital (20 studies): 
‐ probably results in fewer cases of 'poor outcome' at 6 to 12 months than usual care. Of 1000 people with hip fracture who received usual care, 347 would have a ‘poor outcome’ between 6 and 12 months after surgery; 41 fewer people (12% of 347) would have a ‘poor outcome’ with multidisciplinary rehabilitation; 
‐ may reduce the risk of death in hospital, and in the longer term for up to 1 year.
‐ may result in fewer people with poorer mobility at 6 to 12 months.
We don’t know if multidisciplinary rehabilitation improves or worsens quality of life and activities of daily living. There was no evidence on long‐term, hip‐related pain. 
