Overview of all systematic review of all treatments for chronic inflammatory demyelinating polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP) 
Review question 
What can we learn from summarising the evidence from systematic reviews on treatments for Chronic Inflammatory Demyelinating Polyradiculoneuropathy (CIDP)? Is any treatment more or less effective and safe than another? 
Background 
CIDP is a long‐term condition, in which symptoms can steadily worsen over time or show periods of improvement and relapse. People usually have weakness and numbness due to inflammation of nerves (nerves affected are outside the spinal cord and brain). CIDP affects about 2 to 3 per 100,000 of the population and can be disabling. More than half of affected people cannot walk unaided when symptoms are at their worst. Treatments directed at reducing the inflammation usually help but there is no clear evidence favouring one commonly used treatment over another. 
Methods 
We searched five databases for all systematic reviews and randomised controlled trials (RCTs) until October 2016. We judged that five Cochrane systematic reviews (CSRs) provided the best evidence and identified 23 randomised trials, of which 16 have so far been included in CSRs. We assessed the quality of their included evidence. 
Key results and quality of the evidence 
The evidence from randomised trials is as follows.
1. It is uncertain whether daily oral prednisone (an anti‐inflammatory corticosteroid) improved weakness and sensation (numbness) compared to no treatment, as the evidence is of very low quality. We know that corticosteroids have a significant risk of serious side effects during prolonged use. 
2. High‐dose monthly oral dexamethasone (a more powerful corticosteroid) for six months was probably no more or less effective than daily oral prednisolone. 
3. Plasma exchange probably produced significantly more short‐term improvement in disability than dummy exchange. In the largest observational study, 3.9% of plasma exchange procedures had complications. 
