Is it better for a baby to be born immediately or to wait for labour to start spontaneously when waters break at or after 37 weeks? 
What is the issue? 
If a pregnant woman's waters break without onset of contractions (prelabour rupture of membranes – PROM) at 37 weeks of pregnancy or more, there are two options: the first is for induction of labour so that the baby is born as soon as possible (planned early birth); or secondly, to wait for labour to start naturally (expectant management). 
Why is this important? 
In a previous version of this review we found that planned early birth may reduce the risk of maternal infection without increasing the risk of caesarean section, compared with waiting. Fewer infants went to the neonatal intensive care unit with planned early birth, though there were no differences seen in rates of neonatal infection. While there are some benefits of early induction of labour, it is important to have a more complete picture of what happens with planned early birth compared with waiting for labour to start naturally. 
What evidence did we find? 
This review included data from 23 randomised controlled trials involving 8615 pregnant women at 37 weeks of pregnancy or more. Only three trials were at overall low risk of bias, and the evidence in the review was very low to moderate quality. For planned early birth, 10 trials used intravenous oxytocin for induction of labour, 12 trials used prostaglandins, and one trial each assessed Caulophyllum and acupuncture. 
The findings showed that planned early birth for PROM at term reduced the risk of infection for pregnant women (including infection of the membranes surrounding the baby and the amniotic fluid (known as chorioamnionitis)) compared with expectant management (eight trials, 6864 women; this was rated low‐quality evidence), Planned early birth also reduced the risk of definite or possible infections for the babies (16 trials, 7314 babies, low‐quality evidence). However, no differences were seen in the rates of caesarean births (23 trials, 8576 women, low‐quality evidence), serious illness or death for the women (three trials, 425 women, very low‐quality evidence), definite infection for the babies (six trials, 1303 babies, very low‐quality evidence), or death for the babies (eight trials, 6392 babies, moderate‐quality evidence). Babies born after planned early birth were less likely to be admitted to the intensive care unit (eight trials, 6179 babies), and both women (two trials, 748 women) and their babies (four trials, 5691 babies) had a shorter stay in hospital after planned early birth. Women had a more positive experience of planned early birth compared with expectant management (two trials, 5134 women). 
