Are cyclical progestogens an effective and safe treatment for heavy menstrual bleeding compared to other medical treatments? 
Background 
Heavy menstrual bleeding (HMB) is menstrual bleeding (periods) that interferes with a woman's quality of life, either physical, emotional, social or material, independently of the actual amount of blood loss. Most women with HMB do not have any associated physical cause, such as fibroids, so getting help that does not involve surgery is an attractive alternative. A cyclical progestogen is a hormone tablet that can be taken by mouth for either 10 days or 3 to 4 weeks per month for the treatment of HMB (short or long course cyclical progestogen). 
Trial characteristics 
This review identified 15 randomized controlled trials (clinical studies where people are randomly put into one of two or more treatment groups) with 1071 women in total comparing oral progestogens to other medical treatment for HMB (other oral treatments, intrauterine device and vaginal ring). Our primary outcomes were menstrual blood loss and satisfaction with treatment; the secondary outcomes were number of days of bleeding, quality of life, compliance and acceptability of treatment, adverse events and costs. Evidence is current to January 2019. 
Key results 
This review of trials found that progestogen hormone tablets taken by mouth for 10 days per month (short course) were less effective at reducing menstrual blood loss when compared to other medical treatments. We are uncertain whether they improved satisfaction or quality of life in women with HMB, or were associated with any difference in adverse effects when compared to other medical treatments. Even though it was less effective at reducing menstrual blood loss, satisfaction with treatment was similar to other medical treatments such as tranexamic acid and Pg‐IUS. 
We found that progestogen hormone tablets, taken by mouth for three to four weeks from day 5 to 26 of the menstrual cycle (long course), reduced menstrual blood loss but this treatment may be less effective than tranexamic acid, combined hormonal contraceptives and the levonorgestrel‐releasing intrauterine device. No studies in this comparison reported on quality of life. Satisfaction with treatment was similar to women using the combined vaginal ring, but there were no data to compare satisfaction between long cycle and LNG‐IUS or tranexamic acid. There was no evidence of a difference in the occurrence of headache, but long course oral progestogens were associated with a significantly lower incidence of breakthrough bleeding compared with other medical treatment. 
Quality of the evidence 
The quality of the evidence that compared oral progestogens (short and long course) to other medical treatments for HMB was either low or very low which means that we are very uncertain of the findings of the review. The main limitations were risk of bias (women and researchers were aware of the treatment they were receiving which was likely to interfere with the responses, and there was a high number of dropouts from studies) and inconsistency (the results varied among studies). 
