Blood transfusions in patients with heart problems requiring surgery on their heart
This review aims to determine the current evidence on the impact of red blood cell transfusion on patients born with heart problems undergoing heart surgery. 
Background 
Between four and nine children out of every 1000 born alive have hearts that have not formed properly. Heart surgery may allow a child to live and grow or may correct the defect in children and adults alike. Patients often need red blood cell transfusions during or after heart surgery. Most patients will have the surgery on a cardiopulmonary bypass (CPB) machine, which acts as the heart and lungs during the operation. More patients are now surviving heart surgery and the aim is to make surgery even safer. Some research suggests that red blood cell transfusions may make people more ill. 
Study characteristics 
We searched scientific sources to identify eligible trials and found 11 studies with 862 participants. We found no trials including adults. The identified studies examined three treatments: two trials compared giving a red blood cell transfusion only when the levels of haemoglobin in the blood fell below a certain concentration (known as a restrictive versus a liberal transfusion trigger); two trials compared whether there was a benefit to removing white blood cells (leukocytes) from the transfused red blood cells and seven trials compared methods used to prepare the fluid for the CPB machine. The trials were different in terms of the age of the participants, the type of heart disease and the exact treatment studied so there was been no opportunity to pool data for analysis. All studies did not report on all outcomes (a measure of a participant's clinical and functional status that is used to assess the effectiveness of a treatment, e.g. death, side effects). 
Key results 
Our primary outcome was death within 30 days after surgery. Five trials looked at this outcome and found no clear difference in mortality between the treatment arms. Four trials explored other adverse effects following a red blood cell transfusion. A difference in the number of adverse events was only observed for kidney failure: in one trial (with 309 participants), patients receiving cell salvaged red blood cells during CPB were less likely to have renal failure than patients not exposed to cell salvage. 
