Oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid compounds for maintaining remission in ulcerative colitis
What was the aim of this review? 
The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid (also known as mesalazine or mesalamine) helps maintain remission and prevent relapse in people with ulcerative colitis. Ulcerative colitis is an inflammatory bowel disease that results in long‐lasting inflammation of the colon. Some common symptoms include bloody diarrhea, abdominal and rectal pain, weight loss, fatigue and fever. The review authors collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 44 studies. 
How up‐to‐date is this review? 
The review authors searched for studies that had been published up to June 2019.
What was studied in the review? 
The researchers examined whether oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid was better than a placebo (a fake medication), other comparator 5‐aminosalicylic acid formulations, sulfasalazine, different dose levels of oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid, and once‐daily dosing compared to conventional dosing in people with ulcerative colitis. The outcomes included clinical or endoscopic (where a long, thin tube is directly entered into the bowel) remission, adherence to medication regimen, and side effects from the medication. 
What were the main results of the review? 
The review authors found 44 relevant studies (9967 participants). These studies compared oral 5‐aminosalicylic medications to placebo, comparator 5‐aminosalicylic acid formulations, sulfasalazine, different dose levels of oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid, and once‐daily dosing compared to conventional dosing. 
Eight studies (1555 participants) assessed the effectiveness of oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid compared to placebo. The studies found oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid was more effective than placebo for maintaining clinical or endoscopic remission (high‐certainty evidence). Twelve studies (1655 participants) assessed the effectiveness of sulfasalazine compared to 5‐aminosalicylic acid. The studies found sulfasalazine to be slightly more effective compared to 5‐aminosalicylic acid (high‐certainty evidence). Ten studies (3910 participants) assessed the effectiveness of once‐daily compared to conventional dosing (twice daily). The studies found there was probably no difference between the groups for maintaining clinical or endoscopic remission (moderate‐certainty evidence). An additional analysis of adherence to study medication was also done on once‐daily versus conventional dosing. The results showed there was probably no difference in adherence to taking medication between the two dosing groups (moderate‐certainty evidence). Six studies (1781 participants) assessed oral 5‐aminosalicylic acid (e.g. balsalazide, Pentasa, and olsalazine) compared to other 5‐aminosalicylic acid formulations (e.g. Asacol and Salofalk). The studies found there was probably no difference in clinical or endoscopic remission between the 5‐aminosalicylic acid and the 5‐aminosalicylic acid comparator groups (low‐certainty evidence). 
There is probably little or no evidence of a difference in commonly reported side effects between 5‐aminosalicylic acid and any of the comparators. Commonly reported side effects included flatulence, abdominal pain, nausea, diarrhea, headache, dyspepsia (indigestion), and nasopharyngitis (inflammation of the nasal passages). 
