Fifty‐five studies provided information for the review. Thirty‐four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of duodenal ulcer. Two studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of duodenal ulcer. Fifteen studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of gastric ulcer. Three studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against ulcer‐healing drug alone in the healing of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). One study compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). Four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against ulcer‐healing drug in preventing the recurrence of duodenal ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed. Twenty‐seven studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of duodenal ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed. Twelve studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of gastric ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed, while one study compared H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in preventing the recurrence of peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer) after initial ulcer had been healed. Four studies compared H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug versus comparison regimen in the relief of symptoms from peptic ulcer (gastric or duodenal ulcer). There were no studies comparing H. pylori eradication therapy against no treatment in the healing of gastric ulcer, H. pylori eradication therapy against ulcer‐healing drug as maintenance therapy in preventing the recurrence of gastric ulcer after initial ulcer had been healed, or H. pylori eradication therapy plus ulcer‐healing drug against no treatment or ulcer‐healing drug in the relief of symptoms in people with peptic ulcer. Some trials provided information for more than one comparison. The evidence is current until March 2016. 