Nutritional screening for improving patient care and professional practice
There are often inadequate processes in place to identify patients who are malnourished or at risk of malnutrition in hospitals and in the community. Therefore nutritional screening as a tool for identifying these patients may have an important role in reducing the risks of malnutrition. There are several reports on implementing nutritional screening programmes, but there are associated costs to health systems and patients. It is therefore important to assess the effectiveness of nutritional screening programmes. We searched for studies evaluating the effects of nutritional screening as a main intervention in hospital and primary care settings on patient outcomes such as mortality, illness, health related quality of life, and change in BMI or weight. We also searched for studies evaluating process outcomes like identification of patients requiring nutritional care, data recording (e.g. weight and BMI), or referral of patients to dietitians or similar. Three studies met our inclusion criteria, but they were very dissimilar in their design, setting, intervention and outcomes. One study found that primary care physicians were receptive to the intervention but it did not result in any improvement in detection rate and nutritional intervention rate. Two studies were conducted in hospitals: one reported that patients’ weight documentation increased as a result of the intervention, and the other reported significant weight gains and reduction in hospital acquired infection rate in the intervention hospital. Both of these studies suffered from limitations in their design, and it was not possible to rule out the impact of confounding factors on their findings. As a result, we conclude that evidence on the effectiveness of nutritional screening is insufficient. Therefore, further high quality studies should be conducted to assess the effectiveness of nutritional screening programmes in hospitals and communities. 
