Routine preoperative medical testing for cataract surgery
What is the aim of this review? The aim of this Cochrane Review was to determine whether it is necessary to perform preoperative medical testing before cataract surgery. 
Key messages Preoperative medical testing did not reduce the risk of medical adverse events during or after cataract surgery when compared to selective or no testing. 
What was studied in the review? Cataract surgery is practiced widely, and substantial resources are being committed to increasing the cataract surgical rate in low‐ and middle‐income countries. With the current volume of cataract surgery and future increases, it is critical to be able to optimize the safety, but also the cost‐effectiveness of this procedure. Most cataracts are age‐related, and therefore surgeries are performed on older individuals with other health and eye conditions. It is likely that preoperative medical testing will detect medical conditions, but it is questionable whether these conditions should preclude these individuals from cataract surgery or change their perioperative management. 
What are the main results of the review? We included three studies in this review. One study was from Canada and the USA, another from Brazil, and the third from Italy. These studies compared routine preoperative medical testing versus selective or no testing. Study participants were followed from one week to two months after surgery. 
The review shows the following.
• Preoperative medical testing did not reduce the risk of medical adverse events during or after cataract surgery when compared to selective or no testing (high‐certainty evidence). The three studies reported results for 21,531 total cataract surgeries with 707 total surgery‐associated medical adverse events, including 61 hospitalizations and three deaths. Of the 707 medical adverse events reported, 353 occurred in the pre‐testing group and 354 occurred in the no‐testing group. • No clear difference was observed for the occurrence of eye‐related adverse events during or after surgery (moderate‐certainty evidence). • One study evaluated cost, estimating the cost to be 2.55 times higher in those who had routine preoperative medical testing compared to those who had selective preoperative testing (moderate‐certainty evidence). • There was no difference in the cancellation of surgery between those with routine preoperative medical testing and those with no or selective preoperative testing (high‐certainty evidence). • No study reported changes in surgical management (other than cancellation of surgery) or quality of life measures (evidence gaps). 
How up‐to‐date is this review? We searched for studies that had been published up to 29 June 2018. 
