Is there an increased risk of ovarian cancer in women treated with drugs for subfertility?
Background Drugs to stimulate ovulation have been used to treat subfertility since the early 1960s. There is uncertainty about the safety of these drugs and their potential risk of causing cancer. Moreover, it has already been shown that infertility itself increases the risk of ovarian cancer. 
The aim of the review We aimed with this updated systematic review to summarise current published research on the risk of ovarian cancer in subfertile women treated with fertility drugs compared to the general population and to subfertile women not treated with fertility drugs. 
What are the main findings? Overall, based on 37 studies, which included a total of 4,684,724 women, we did not find enough strong evidence suggesting a potentially higher risk of ovarian cancer in women treated with fertility drugs. 
A cumulative analysis of 12 case‐control studies from the USA revealed increased risk of ovarian cancer in women using fertility drugs, and this risk was higher in nulliparous women (women who have not given birth) when compared to multiparous women (women who have given birth to more than one child). One of the 37 included studies reported a two‐fold increase in development of serous borderline ovarian tumour in women after more than four cycles of progesterone; however the number of cases included in this group was very small. One cohort study also suggested an increased risk of borderline ovarian tumour in infertile women treated with clomiphene citrate when compared to infertile women who did not undergo treatment to conceive. 
Quality of the evidence Studies showing an increase in the risk of ovarian cancer were of low methodological quality, with short follow‐up periods and with lack of adjustment for important confounding factors; therefore the results are too unreliable. However, compared with older studies, recent studies have tended to report both the dose and the number of cycles of infertility drugs and have included more contemporary drug regimens; this has made the final results more reliable. 
