Support from peers or lay leaders for adolescents with asthma
Background to the question 
Adolescents may need extra support to manage their asthma, as they are at higher risk of not taking their inhalers properly and of engaging in activities that may make their asthma worse (such as smoking). We wanted to find out whether sessions led by peers or by lay leaders (i.e. not healthcare professionals) help to reduce these risks and lead to better asthma control. We included studies that compared this support against usual care or a different type of help. We conducted the most recent searches on 25 November 2016. 
Study characteristics 
We found five studies including 1146 adolescents with asthma. Studies varied by design, duration (2.5 to 9 months), setting (school, day camp, primary care) and the way that peer support or lay‐led sessions were given. Asthma severity varied, as did the number who smoked. Three studies used a programme called Triple A (Adolescent Asthma Action), by which older adolescents are trained to deliver sessions to younger students; one of these studies tested the addition of a pledge to stop smoking; another delivered peer support group sessions including messages played through an mp3 player to encourage adherence; and the third compared an asthma day camp led by peers against one led by nurses and doctors. 
Key results 
Adolescents who received peer support had better quality of life than those in the control group, although this varied with how results were analysed, so we were uncertain. Most other outcomes did not show an important benefit of the intervention. These studies provided very little information about asthma attacks or unscheduled visits during the trial, and we couldn't be sure whether the intervention was beneficial in terms of asthma control. Results from two studies in which a lot of the adolescents smoked showed some promise that adolescents had the confidence to stop, but overall nicotine dependence and smoking‐related knowledge were not much better than in controls. Studies provided no reports of adverse events. 
Quality of the evidence 
We can't be sure of the results because most outcomes were rated by people who knew the group to which adolescents were assigned, and this can affect how people behave and respond to questions. Some studies didn't report everything they said they would, or reported information that we could not analyse. Sometimes study results didn't agree with results of other studies, and often we could not say for certain whether adolescents received benefit. For these reasons, we have low confidence in all study findings. 
