Surgery versus stereotactic radiotherapy for people with single or solitary brain metastasis 
Background Brain metastases are cancer cells that spread to the brain from the place where the disease first started (primary tumour) to form one or more tumours. In most cases, brain metastases are multiple lesions that are diagnosed in later stages of the disease. However, some can appear as the only deposit detected, either as the only known metastasis of a tumour in the whole body which happens to be localised in the central nervous system (a solitary brain metastasis) or as a single cerebral metastasis with additional metastases in other organ systems (a single brain metastasis). 
Surgery and stereotactic radiotherapy are two of the treatments currently available for single and solitary brain metastasis. Surgery consists of either a biopsy (an extraction of a small piece of the tumour through a small hole (burr hole) to be examined under the microscope) or an attempted complete removal of the metastasis through a more extensive surgical operation (craniotomy). Steroetactic radiotherapy is a type of external radiation therapy where ionising radiation beams are precisely focused on the brain metastasis. This can be via a single fraction treatment (stereotactic radiosurgery) or through multiple smaller fractions (fractionated stereotactic radiotherapy). 
Review question What is the effectiveness and safety of surgery versus stereotactic radiotherapy for people with single or solitary brain metastasis? 
Study characteristics We searched relevant databases up to 25 March 2018. We found two clinical trials with a total of 85 participants with either single or solitary brain metastasis. One trial included 64 participants with a single brain metastasis, and the other included participants with a solitary brain metastasis (22 of these consented to randomisation and 21 were analysed). Both studies were prematurely closed due to difficulties in finding participants meeting the inclusion criteria or agreeing to participate. One trial compared surgery plus whole brain radiotherapy (WBRT) versus stereotactic radiosurgery alone, and the second trial compared surgery plus WBRT versus stereotactic radiosurgery plus WBRT. 
Key results Due to the small number of people included in the studies, neither study had sufficient power to detect differences in the effects of surgery versus stereotactic radiotherapy on overall survival, adverse events, progression‐free survival or quality of life in participants with single or solitary brain metastasis. 
Certainty of the evidence The certainty of the evidence was low or very low mainly because of imprecision and risk of bias since the number of people in each trial was very small and participants and researchers were aware of the trial intervention (not blinded studies), so this could have affected how the participants evaluated outcomes, such as some adverse events and quality of life. Even though blinding of participants is difficult due to the nature of the intervention, study authors did not mention other ways of reducing the risk of bias, such as blinding during data analysis. 
