Culture media for human pre‐implantation embryos for in assisted reproductive technology cycles  
Review question: 
What is the impact of different human embryo culture media in women undergoing in vitro fertilisation (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI) cycles, with regard to live birth or ongoing pregnancy and adverse events? 
Background: 
Embryo culture refers to the culture of human gametes and embryos during in vitro fertilisation treatments. The procedure is initiated when eggs and sperm are combined in a culture dish and it ends with the transfer of the resulting embryo to the uterus. The culture period varies between one and six days, and the embryo culture process is vital to the success of any IVF or ICSI procedure. The type of culture medium used may affect embryo quality and hence the success rate of the treatment. Despite its importance, it is unknown which culture medium is most effective and safest. 
Study characteristics: 
The evidence is current to March 2015. We included 32 randomised controlled trials of a wide variety of different commercially available culture media in women undergoing IVF or ICSI. Sixteen studies randomised women (total 3666), three randomised cycles (total 1018) and twelve randomised oocytes (over 15,230). Most studies (22/32) failed to report their source of funding. 
Key results: 
No two studies compared the same culture media. Only seven studies reported our primary outcome of live birth or ongoing pregnancy, and they found no good evidence of a difference between the media compared. A single study found low‐quality evidence that for day three embryo transfer, Quinn's Advantage may be associated with higher rates than G5, but this study was available only as an abstract and the methods used were not clearly reported. With regard to adverse effects, three studies reported multiple pregnancies and six studies reported miscarriage. None of them found any evidence of a difference between the culture media used. None of the studies reported on the health of offspring. We conclude that there is insufficient evidence to support or refute the use of any specific culture medium. Properly designed and executed randomised trials are necessary. 
Quality of the evidence: 
There was very low‐quality evidence for nearly all comparisons, the main limitations being imprecision and poor reporting of study methods. 
