Combination fixed‐dose beta agonist and steroid inhaler as required for adults or children with mild asthma 
Background 
Asthma is the most common respiratory illness. Many people with asthma have mild asthma, but still remain at risk of severe asthma exacerbations, which often result in the use of oral steroids. Mild asthma is commonly treated with preventative inhalers, which contain a steroid used to reduce inflammation in the airways, and with reliever inhalers, which relax the muscles of the airways causing quick relief of asthma symptoms. Combination inhalers contain both the preventative steroid and the reliever, simplifying treatment and ensuring steroids are always given alongside the immediate relief of symptoms. 
Review question 
We examined the findings of clinical trials to assess the use of combination inhalers in the treatment of mild asthma when taken on an as‐needed, symptom‐driven basis. 
Study characteristics 
We searched for studies up to March 2021. Results were collected from six studies which compared use of a combination inhaler used on an as‐needed basis with either as‐needed reliever‐only therapy or daily treatment with a low dose preventative inhaler. 
Key findings 
We found that combination inhalers used as‐needed when compared with reliever‐only treatment reduced severe exacerbations requiring tablet steroids and rates of emergency admission to hospital with asthma symptoms. Differences in other measures relating to symptom control and lung function were too small to be clinically important. Rates of severe exacerbations were similar between patients on daily preventative steroid inhalers and those using combination inhalers as‐needed. People using combination inhalers had lower rates of hospital admission and lower total inhaled steroid dose, whilst the differences in lung function and asthma symptom control were not clinically significant. 
This review found the use of combination inhalers used when the patient experiences asthma symptoms was beneficial in reducing severe exacerbations when compared to stand‐alone reliever therapy in mild asthma. In addition to this the use of combination inhalers used on an as‐needed basis was associated with a reduction in hospital admissions and total inhaled steroid dose when compared with regularly‐taken low dose preventative inhaler therapy. 
