The treatment of cervical pre‐cancer (CIN) with anti‐inflammatory agents to induce regression and prevent the progression to cervical cancer 
Background This review is an update of a previously published review in The Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews 2014, Issue 4 on non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory agents (NSAIDs) to induce regression and prevent the progression of cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN). Cervical intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) is a common pre‐cancerous condition of the cervix associated with HPV (the human papillomavirus), which can occur in anyone but is commonly found in younger women who wish to maintain their fertility and treatment often involves surgical excision. CIN can progress to invasive cancer of the cervix. CIN is identified by screening and can be treated with surgery to the cervix either by removal with surgical excision or destruction of the cells covering the cervix such as with laser therapy, heating, or freezing. While this is effective in the majority of cases, the surgery can cause immediate unwanted effects, such as bleeding and infection, or later complications including difficulty with menses due to scarring of the cervix and early (premature) labour. 
NSAIDs have been found to prevent the development of cancer of the large bowel and other organs, but with some unwanted side effects especially on the heart and blood vessels. Although rofecoxib, used in one of these studies, was withdrawn from the market in 2004, it may shed light on the feasibility of treatment with other NSAIDs. 
We wanted to discover whether the use of NSAIDs for women with CIN could promote regression or prevent progression to cervical cancer without undue risk or side effects. 
The aim of the review To identify the utility of treating CIN with non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) such as celecoxib to cause regression of the abnormal findings and avoid surgical procedures. 
Study characteristics We identified three randomised studies up to August 2017, including 171 women over the age of 18 years, with moderate or severe CIN. The trials ran from June 2005 to April 2012, June 2002 to October 2003, and May to October 2004. One of them was discontinued before it was completed. The women were given either celecoxib or rofecoxib versus a placebo (sugar tablet) daily by mouth for a period of three to six months. 
Key Results With the addition of the third trial to this review, there is now a sufficient number of patients in the review to conclude that NSAIDs have minimal effect over placebo in causing regression of CIN. No patients progressed to invasive cervical cancer, and overall, the drug was well‐tolerated compared to placebo. 
