Exercise for women receiving chemotherapy or radiation therapy or both (adjuvant therapy) for breast cancer 
What is the issue? 
In the past, women receiving cancer treatment were usually advised to rest and avoid physical activity. But, we now know that too much rest and too little physical activity can lead to muscle wasting. This reduces women's physical fitness level and may limit their regular activities. Women also often have other side effects that can affect their daily lives, such as extreme tiredness (fatigue), depression, and reduced mental functioning, for example being able to remember things or keep focused. 
Why does it matter? 
The side effects of breast cancer treatment can interfere with daily activities and return to work. It is important to learn of ways to reduce these side effects. 
We asked if physical exercise during chemotherapy or radiation therapy or both helped to reduce treatment side effects. Side effects studied included tiredness, depression, and reduced physical fitness and mental functioning. We also studied general effects such as health‐related, cancer‐specific, and cancer site‐specific quality of life. Questionnaires for cancer‐specific quality of life ask questions that are important for patients with cancer in general, for example about pain or nausea. Cancer site‐specific quality of life is measured with questionnaires that ask women with breast cancer about topics that are especially important to them, for example about breast symptoms or body image. We only included questionnaires that have been shown to be reliable. 
We found 32 studies involving 2626 women. The included studies were published up through March 2015. Not all studies considered all of these potential side effects. Combining the results of these studies suggests that physical exercise probably improves physical fitness and slightly lessens fatigue. These studies also suggest that physical exercise probably results in little or no improvement in cancer‐specific quality of life and depression. Exercise may improve mental function and slightly improve cancer site‐specific quality of life, although the quality of the evidence was low for both of these outcomes. It may result in little or no improvement in health‐related quality of life, however the quality of evidence was low for this outcome. The quality of evidence may have been low because many of the studies did not have enough participants to observe small differences and because results may be biased due to people assessing the outcomes knowing which participants were in the control group. 
Importantly, physical exercise did not harm most women. Very few women experienced discomfort or pain in their arms or legs. 
What does this mean? 
It appears that exercise during cancer treatment can help lessen fatigue and improve physical fitness. It probably results in little or no improvement in cancer‐specific quality of life and depression. It is unknown whether it helps for other side effects. At least nine current studies will help to answer the question if and how much exercise helps with the mentioned side effects and other side effects. 
