Lidocaine for reducing propofol‐induced pain on anaesthesia in adults
Review question 
Is intravenous, (directly into a vein), lidocaine injection effective in reducing the pain caused by the injection of propofol, given to induce anaesthesia in adults undergoing general anaesthesia? 
Background 
Propofol is an anaesthetic drug (an induction agent) which is given to induce and maintain anaesthesia in adults undergoing surgery. Propofol is a popular induction agent because it provides a smooth induction and faster recovery than other drugs such as thiopental. The main disadvantage of propofol is that it often causes people severe pain. This is because propofol is usually injected into a hand vein and can cause skin irritation. This can make the anaesthesia experience unpleasant. One method for preventing propofol‐induced pain is to give lidocaine either before the propofol injection or mixed in with the propofol. Lidocaine is a commonly used low‐cost local anaesthetic drug. The objective of this review was to determine how effective lidocaine was in reducing the high pain levels caused by the injection of propofol. 
Study characteristics 
We searched the databases until October 2014. We included 85 studies, 82 of which (10,350 participants) were eligible for quantitative analysis. The study participants were randomly selected to receive either intravenous lidocaine injection or normal saline (placebo) at the same time as the propofol injection. 
We reran the search in November 2015. We found 11 potential studies of interest, those studies were added to the list of ‘Studies awaiting classification' and will be fully incorporated into the formal review findings when we update the review. 
Study funding sources 
Three out of the 85 studies were funded by either a pharmaceutical manufacturer with a commercial interest in the results of the studies or the company which supplied the propofol. Eight studies were supported by government hospital or university funds and one study was funded by a charitable grant. 
Key results 
We found that the injection of lidocaine into a vein, either mixing lidocaine with propofol or injecting lidocaine before propofol, could effectively reduce the incidence and the high levels of pain associated with the injection of propofol. Adverse effects such as inflammation (redness, swelling) of the vein at the injection site were rare and in two studies were not more frequent with the use of lidocaine. No study reported on patient satisfaction. 
Statistics 
Based on these results we would expect that out of 1000 patients receiving intravenous propofol, about 384 who did not also receive intravenous lidocaine, would experience moderate to severe pain, compared to only 89 patients who also received intravenous lidocaine. 
