How do minimally invasive treatments compare to traditional surgery for treating lower urinary tract symptoms in men? 
Background 
Older men often suffer from urinary complaints such as frequent urination or a weak urine stream. If these symptoms can be blamed on an enlarged prostate gland and lifestyle changes and medications don't help enough, there are surgical procedures that may help. One such procedure is called transurethral resection of the prostate (traditional surgery). This traditional surgery has been widely used for a long time, and is known to work well, but it does require anesthesia and has several unwanted effects. Other 'minimally invasive' surgical procedures have become available. These procedures are said to work similarly well, but with fewer unwanted effects. The five minimally invasive procedures are 'prostatic urethral lift', 'convective radiofrequency water vapor therapy', 'transurethral microwave thermotherapy', 'prostatic arterial embolization', and 'temporary implantable nitinol device'. 
Review question 
We performed this review to compare five newer treatment forms for men with lower urinary tract symptoms to traditional surgery or 'sham surgery'. In sham surgery, men thought they were getting surgery but really did not have anything done. 
Methods 
We used recommended Cochrane methods and GRADE to rate the certainty of evidence. We also used a special statistical method called network meta‐analysis to compare different treatments. 
Search date 
The findings of our study are up‐to‐date until February 2021.
Included studies 
We included 27 randomized controlled trials. In this type of study, random 'chance' determined whether men were assigned to receive one of the newer surgical procedures, or traditional surgery (or sham surgery). This method of assigning participants to 'intervention' or 'control' groups helps to reduce bias in research studies. 
Men were mostly over 50 years of age and had severe urinary symptoms. Most studies (16 studies) used transurethral microwave thermotherapy. Eleven studies followed men for less than one year and nine studies followed men for one year. Only seven studies followed men for two years or longer. 
Funding 
Most studies did not report their funding sources, while others reported that those who paid for the study received at least some money for the company that made the device that was used. 
Key results 
We only report the results for what we thought were the three most important outcomes: urinary symptoms, urinary quality of life, and unwanted effects, comparing these treatments to traditional surgery. The review also includes information on several other outcomes and how they compared to sham surgery. 
Prostatic urethral lift and arterial embolization may result in little to no difference in men's symptoms than traditional surgery in the short term (up to 12 months). The other minimally invasive interventions may result in worse symptom scores than traditional surgery at short‐term follow‐up, but there may be no difference. All treatments may result in little to no difference in the quality of life compared to traditional surgery at short‐term follow‐up. Transurethral microwave thermotherapy probably results in a large reduction in major adverse events compared to traditional surgery, whereas the other minimally invasive treatments may result in a large reduction in major adverse events. Transurethral microwave thermotherapy may result in higher retreatment rates, but we are uncertain about the other minimally invasive procedures. We are also uncertain of the effects of these interventions on erectile function and ejaculation. 
Certainty of evidence 
Our level of certainty about the evidence was different for each of the outcomes, but was mostly low or very low. This means that we cannot be sure that the results of this review are accurate. A common reason for grading down the certainty of evidence included flaws in the ways the studies were planned and conducted. Also, the results differed a lot among studies, and the results of studies were often imprecise. 
