Does taking a supplement of myo‐inositol work as an effective treatment for women who develop diabetes during pregnancy? 
What is the issue? 
During pregnancy the mother develops resistance to insulin and the uptake of glucose from the blood is reduced to ensure the baby has a consistent supply of glucose. The mother has to produce extra insulin to keep her blood glucose levels under control or she is at risk of developing gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). GDM is diabetes that occurs during pregnancy and resolves after the birth of the baby. It is an increasing problem around the world, causing both long‐ and short‐term complications for the mother and her baby. Women with GDM are at greater risk of developing high blood pressure and having a caesarean section for the birth. Their babies can grow large for their gestational age, which increases the likelihood of having an injury at birth such as broken bones or a shoulder becoming stuck. In the long term both the mother and her child are at increased risk of developing type 2 diabetes. 
Why is this important? 
Dietary and lifestyle counselling is the first line of treatment for women with GDM. An oral hypoglycaemic drug or insulin therapy is recommended for the women who are still unable to maintain target blood glucose levels. Finding a treatment that controls the mother’s blood sugar levels without harming the mother or her baby is important. Myo‐inositol is a natural form of inositol that is found in fruits, vegetables, nuts and cereals. It is a simple carbohydrate nutrient the body requires for many cell functions. Myo‐inositol is available as a dietary supplement, in water‐soluble powder form or as capsules. 
What evidence did we find? 
We searched for evidence in April 2016 and identified two randomised controlled studies (involving 142 women and their babies). Both studies were conducted in Italy (and were judged to be at an unclear risk of bias). The women were diagnosed with GDM at 12 to 13 weeks' gestation in one study and at 26 weeks' gestation in the other. The findings from these trials suggested that myo‐inositol can reduce fasting blood glucose levels. The need for supplementary insulin was not clearly different between the women receiving myo‐inositol and the control groups. One of the studies showed reduced glucose levels at one hour after a meal (one study, 73 women) There was no evidence to suggest that the babies were at reduced risk of being born large‐for‐gestational age (one study, 73 infants). Myo‐inositol appeared to reduce the risk of the baby having low blood sugar levels at birth and being born at a later gestational age, although the evidence was of low quality. Many of the infant and maternal outcomes identified as being of interest for this review were not reported in the included studies ‐ these included: high blood pressure during the pregnancy, caesarean section, the development of type 2 diabetes (maternal), and the number of babies who died or were unwell, or the number of babies with neurosensory disability. No long‐term outcomes were reported for the mother, infant as a child, infant as an adult or health service outcomes. 
