Interventions for preventing and reducing the use of physical restraints of older people in hospital 
What was studied in this review? 
Physical restraints are devices which reduce a person's freedom to move. These can be bedrails, belts in chairs or beds, and fixed tables, which prevent people from getting out of bed or a chair, or mitts which prevent someone using their hands freely. In some countries, physical restraints are used quite commonly for older people in general hospital wards. A main reason for this is to try to prevent falls and fall‐related injuries, or to prevent people from removing drips or tubes. Physical restraints are also used as a response to behaviours that make care more challenging for health care staff and may be risky, such as people behaving in an agitated or aggressive way or wandering unobserved around the ward. They are most often used in the hospital care of older people with mobility problems or cognitive impairment due to dementia or delirium. 
It is not clear whether physical restraint use is effective at preventing falls or the removal of tubes, but their use may increase feelings of fear, anger and discomfort and decrease well‐being. Other unintended consequences of using physical restraints include worsened mobility, increased risk of pressure ulcers and incontinence, and injuries directly related to the use of physical restraints. Therefore, physical restraints may have a negative impact on the recovery and rehabilitation of older people in hospital. Guidelines recommend that their use is reduced or stopped, and in some countries they are illegal in most circumstances. Interventions for preventing and reducing the use of physical restraints typically include education for staff and promotion of the use of other care strategies. Sometimes they may involve providing alternative devices which are thought to be less restrictive. 
What did we want to find out? 
We aimed to find out which interventions are most effective for preventing or reducing the use of physical restraints for older people in hospitals. 
What did we do? 
We searched for trials that investigated interventions intended to reduce or prevent the use of physical restraint of older people in hospital. The trials had to include a comparison group of people who did not get the intervention (a control group). We included four studies. One study was conducted in general medical wards in a hospital in Canada and three studies were conducted in rehabilitation hospitals in Hong Kong. The average age of the people in the studies was between 67 and 84 years. In all the studies, the intervention being tested was compared with treatment as usual. 
Three studies tested organisational interventions intended to change policy and practice so that fewer physical restraints were used. This was done by offering education and training for nursing staff, and other strategies to support staff in avoiding physical restraints. One study tested the use of pressure sensor alarms in the beds or chairs of people at high risk of falling, which sounded an alarm if the person got up. 
What did we find? 
The results of the three studies that tested education together with strategies to support health care professionals avoiding physical restraints were inconsistent. In one study the number of participants with physical restraints increased during the study period in both intervention and control groups; in another study the number of participants with physical restraints decreased slightly in both groups. The third study was designed differently so that the intervention was introduced for all participants in a staggered fashion; in this study, fewer participants were physically restrained after the intervention was introduced. The use of pressure sensors in beds or chairs did not lead to a reduction of physical restraints compared with the control group. 
No study looked for harmful effects, e.g. injuries as a result of the use of physical restraints. 
There was no increase or reduction in the number of falls or fall‐related injuries, or in the use of psychotropic medication. There was also no effect on mobility and functioning.  
Our confidence in the results was limited because of the small number of studies and because the studies did not always use the most appropriate methods to carry out their investigations. For example, two studies did not assign people randomly to the study groups. 
What is the conclusion? 
Because of the limited amount and quality of the evidence, we are uncertain whether interventions which involve education of health care staff, together with other strategies to help them to avoid using physical restraints, can effectively reduce the physical restraint of older people in general hospital settings. The use of pressure sensor alarms in beds or chairs for people with an increased fall risk is probably not effective for reducing physical restraints. In order to provide care without the use of physical restraints, it is important to create care environments in general hospitals which meet the needs of older people with mobility and cognitive problems and promote safe mobility. 
