Pain tablets taken by mouth for post‐caesarean pain
Tablets are convenient and easy to take to ease the pain after caesarean section, which involves cutting through the abdomen and uterus to deliver the baby. We aimed to assess the effectiveness, safety and cost‐effectiveness of different types of tablets for the pain. Different types of pain tablets relieve the pain in different ways. Opioids decrease the feeling of pain, decrease reaction to pain as well as increase pain tolerance by their action on the nervous system. Some non‐opioid pain tablets act on the tissues to reduce the response to the inflammatory substances released at the site of tissue damage. Combination drugs (such as paracetamol and codeine) may have more pronounced effects because of the different mechanism of action of their components. We do not know how some other tablets, such as alpha‐2 agonists (clonidine) and gabapentin (usually used for nerve pain that follows shingles and long‐term pain) relieve pain. Good pain control may shorten the time spent in hospital after caesarean section, improve satisfaction and reduce healthcare costs. 
Searching the literature we found 63 articles assessing post‐caesarean pain but only 13 studies met our inclusion criteria, of which only eight studies (involving 962 women) reported on outcomes that we assessed in this review. Of the eight trials contributing data to our review, only four trials had low risk of bias. All of the included studies involved small numbers of women (40 to 136 women). 
We compared non‐opioid, opioid and combination oral tablets with placebo or no treatment. There was insufficient evidence to determine the effect of additional pain killers (tablets or injections) among women who took opioid or non‐opioid or combination pain killers in comparison to placebo. There was also insufficient evidence to establish the effect of opioid versus non‐opioid drugs and opioid versus combination drugs on requirement for additional pain relief. When assessing different non‐opioid drugs individually, we found some evidence that gabapentin resulted in less need for additional pain relief in comparison to placebo, but the analysis of data for other tablets (celexocib, ibuprofen, ketoprofen, naproxen, paracetamol) gave more uncertain results. The use of paracetamol plus codeine resulted in less need for additional pain relief in comparison to placebo. We found that high and low dose of gabapentin, and high dose of ketoprofen were more effective than placebo in relation to the need for additional pain relief. On the other hand, low dose of ketoprofen as well as high and low dose of tramadol did not differ with placebo with in effect on the need for additional pain relief. However, it is important to note that these additional analyses (i.e. different drugs and different doses) are based on relatively few studies (one to two trials) and numbers of women (40 to 136). 
Women developed more side effects including nausea, vomiting and drowsiness with the use of opioid, non‐opioid or combination painkillers in comparison to placebo or no treatment. All trials used additional pain relief as a standard and for breakthrough pain and they all used different drugs. 
No studies reported on the following outcomes: adequate pain relief, number of days in hospital post operatively, re‐hospitalisation due to incisional pain, fully breast feeding on discharge, mixed feeding at discharge, maternal postpartum depression and cost‐effectiveness of the studied interventions. 
