Screening and subsequent treatment for thyroid dysfunction before or during pregnancy to improve outcomes for mothers and their babies 
What is the issue? 
What are the effects of different screening methods (for example screening all women versus screening only some women, or not screening women) for thyroid dysfunction before or during pregnancy on outcomes for the mother and her baby? 
Why is this important? 
The thyroid is a large gland in the neck that produces hormones that help to regulate the chemical processes in the body that maintain life, including growth and energy use. If a woman has an overactive thyroid (hyperthyroidism), or an underactive thyroid (hypothyroidism) in pregnancy which is not managed, there is a possibility of poor outcomes for the mother and her baby. The mother may be more likely to develop high blood pressure and protein in the urine (pre‐eclampsia), give birth before 37 weeks of gestation (preterm birth), and her baby may develop disabilities (such as cerebral palsy, blindness, deafness and other developmental delays including intellectual impairment). Managing thyroid dysfunction in pregnancy (e.g. thyroxine for hypothyroidism, or antithyroid medication for hyperthyroidism) may improve outcomes for mothers and their babies. There are different methods of screening for thyroid dysfunction, including case finding, which means screening only pregnant women who are thought to be at high risk of thyroid dysfunction, or universal screening, which involves screening all pregnant women. Although universal screening may help to diagnose more women with hyperthyroidism or hypothyroidism than case finding, it could also lead to more women having medications and may be costly. It is not currently clear what the effects are of these different methods of screening for thyroid dysfunction for the mother and her baby, and health services. 
What evidence did we find? 
In our search of the medical literature we found two randomised controlled trials, involving 26,408 women. The quality of the included trials was high, and the quality of the evidence they provided was moderate to high. 
(1) Universal screening for thyroid dysfunction in pregnancy, and hypothyroidism specifically, increased the number of women diagnosed with hypothyroidism, who were subsequently treated (one trial involving 4562 women; and one trial involving 21,839 women). The study of 4562 women also showed that there may have been an increase in the number of women diagnosed with hyperthyroidism with universal screening. 
(2) Universal screening and subsequent treatment did not show clear benefits or harms for the women or their babies as it did not change the number of women with pre‐eclampsia (in the one trial involving 4516 of 4562 women for this outcome), the number of women who gave birth preterm (one trial involving 4516 women), or the number of children with a disability (an intelligence quotient (IQ) less than 85 at three years of age) (one trial involving 794 children whose mothers had hypothyroidism from the total of 21,839 women). 
(3) One of the included trials did not report on later disabilities for the baby, and the other trial did not report on pre‐eclampsia or preterm birth. Neither of the trials reported on use of health services or costs. 
What does this mean? 
Although the overall quality of the evidence was moderate to high, apart from finding that universal screening can help to diagnose more women with hypothyroidism (who may then be treated), there were no clear differences in outcomes for the mothers and their babies between universal screening and case finding (or not screening at all). Even though the two included studies involved a large number of women, further evidence is needed to assess the potential short‐ and long‐term benefits or harms of different screening methods, along with the impact on health services including costs. 
