Prophylactic non‐steroidal anti‐inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) for the prevention of macular oedema after cataract surgery 
What is the aim of this review?  The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out if NSAID eye drops can prevent a sight‐threatening complication of cataract surgery (swelling at the back of the eye, known as macular oedema). Cochrane researchers collected and analysed all relevant studies to answer this question and found 34 studies. 
Key messages  There is only low‐certainty evidence to support the use of NSAID eye drops to prevent macular oedema affecting vision after cataract surgery. 
What was studied in the review?  There is a clear lens in the eye that focuses the light on the back of the eye. As people get older this lens can become cloudy. A cloudy lens is known as a cataract. Doctors can remove the cataract and replace it with an artificial lens. This is usually a very successful operation. Occasionally, people having cataract surgery can get swelling at the back of the eye after the operation. This swelling is known as macular oedema. It usually gets better on its own accord, but if it persists it can result in poor vision. 
NSAIDs are a medication that can treat inflammation. They may be able to reduce the chances of this swelling happening. The NSAIDs studied in this review were eye drops. 
What are the main results of the review?  The review authors found 34 relevant studies. These studies were conducted in all parts of the world including the Americas, Europe, the Eastern Mediterranean region and South‐East Asia. Most (28) of these studies compared NSAIDs combined with steroids against steroids alone. Some of the studies (6) compared NSAIDs with steroids alone. A variety of NSAIDs were used, including ketorolac, diclofenac, nepafenac, indomethacin, bromfenac, pranopfen and flurbiprofen. People taking part in these trials were followed up from between one and 12 months. Most studies only followed up to two months or less. Six studies were funded by industry; seven studies were funded from non‐industry sources and the rest of the studies did not report the source of funding. 
There was low‐certainty evidence that NSAIDs reduce the chance of poor vision due to macular oedema three months after cataract surgery. Only one study reported on poor vision due to macular oedema at 12 months and we judged this to have very low‐certainty of evidence. 
Using NSAIDs was associated with a reduced risk of macular oedema but the review authors judged this to be low‐certainty. 
Inconsistent results were seen for some measurements of macular oedema, such as the thickness of the tissue at the back of the eye (central retinal thickness) at three months after surgery. This measurement was not reported by any studies at 12 months after surgery. 
