Corneal collagen cross‐linking for infectious keratitis
What is the aim of this review?The aim of this Cochrane Review was to find out the effect of photoactivated chromophore for collagen cross‐linking (PACK‐CXL), a potential treatment for people with bacterial infectious keratitis. Infectious keratitis is an infection of the cornea, which is the clear, dome‐shaped tissue on the front of the eye. We collected and analyzed all relevant studies to answer this question and found three relevant studies. 
Key messagesThere is no evidence that PACK‐CXL combined with standard antibiotics (medications that treat bacterial infection) is more or less effective than standard antibiotics alone in regard to complete healing and treatment failure. Five ongoing trials (1136 participants) may provide better answers in the next update of this review. 
What was studied in this review?PACK‐CXL uses ultraviolet light from a special machine to strengthen the cornea. This treatment is called 'cross‐linking' because it promotes the binding of collagen fibers in the eye. The collagen fibers work like support beams to keep the cornea stable. 
What are the main results of this review?We included three studies in this review that compared PACK‐CXL combined with standard antibiotics versus standard antibiotics alone. The studies had a total of 59 participants with bacterial keratitis (59 eyes). Follow‐up was conducted between 14 to 120 days after treatment. The studies were conducted in Egypt, Iran, and Thailand between 2010 and 2014. 
There is no evidence that PACK‐CXL with standard antibiotics is more effective than standard antibiotics alone for complete healing. We have very low confidence in this finding because of the low number of participants and high risk of bias. There is also no evidence of a different treatment failure rate between PACK‐CXL with standard antibiotics versus standard antibiotics alone. We have low confidence in this finding because of the low number of participants and high risk of bias. One trial involving 32 participants reported no adverse events from PACK‐CXL at 14 days. 
