Tranexamic acid to help treat nosebleeds (epistaxis)
Background 
Nosebleeds are a very common condition, with the majority of those affected either children or those over the age of 60. They usually stop on their own or by simply compressing the nose with fingers, although a small number require medical attention. This will involve either cauterising (sealing) the bleeding vessel, if it can be seen, or packing the inside of the nose with a material to cause pressure to build up and stop the bleeding ('usual care'). Occasionally bleeding continues despite these measures, or it restarts having initially been controlled. This can lead to a prolonged hospital stay and the possibility of further procedures such as repacking with a different type of nasal pack or an operation. 
Tranexamic acid is a drug that is known to help promote blood clotting by preventing a natural process called fibrinolysis (dissolution of a clot). It is already used in a number of situations where bleeding is a significant worry, such as after heart surgery or major trauma. It can be given by mouth (orally), directly to the bleeding site (topically) or by injection into a vein (intravenously). 
Study characteristics 
We searched for randomised controlled trials in patients of any age with nosebleed requiring intervention. Patients were treated with tranexamic acid (in addition to usual care) compared to placebo, no treatment or any other agent used to stop bleeding. We found six studies that met our inclusion criteria, with a total of 692 participants. Two studies used oral administration of tranexamic acid and four used topical administration. All participants in the studies were adults. Three of the six studies were conducted over 20 years ago. 
Key results 
Three studies measured re‐bleeding within 10 days. When we combined the results we found that fewer patients who were given either oral or topical tranexamic acid had further episodes of re‐bleeding following an initial nosebleed compared to those treated with usual care. 
The time to stop initial bleeding (control of bleeding within 30 minutes) was measured in four studies. In three studies the proportion of patients whose bleeding stopped within 10 minutes was significantly higher in the group receiving topical tranexamic acid compared to the group receiving a different drug (topical epinephrine and lidocaine or phenylephrine). In the other study there was no significant difference at 30 minutes when topical tranexamic acid was compared with placebo. 
No studies reported the proportion of patients requiring any further intervention (e.g. repacking, surgery). 
Only one study of oral tranexamic acid reported the proportion of patients requiring a blood transfusion and there was no evidence of a difference between the groups. 
Length of hospital stay was reported in two studies. One study reported a significantly shorter stay in the oral tranexamic acid group, while the other found no evidence of a difference. 
Five studies mention recording "adverse effects". None found any difference between the groups in the occurrence of minor adverse effects (e.g. mild nausea and diarrhoea, 'bad taste' of gel). In one study a patient did develop a superficial thrombophlebitis (inflammation and a blood clot in a vein near the surface of the skin) of both legs following discharge, but the study did not report in which treatment group this happened. No serious adverse event was seen in any of the studies. 
Quality of the evidence and conclusions 
Overall, the risk of bias in the six studies was low. We graded the quality of the evidence for the main outcome (control of epistaxis: re‐bleeding within 10 days) as moderate, which means that further research is likely to have an important impact on our confidence in the estimate of the effect and is likely to change the estimate. In light of this and the fact that 'usual care' has changed, with the development of more modern nasal cauterisation and packing techniques, since three of the included studies were carried out, there remains uncertainty about the role of tranexamic acid in the treatment of patients with epistaxis. Newer research into the effect of tranexamic acid as a treatment for nosebleeds would inform future management decisions for this condition. 
The evidence in this review is up to date to October 2018.
