Does chromoscopy (dye‐spraying) improve rates of polyp detection when compared to conventional colonoscopy? 
Background 
Colonoscopy is a diagnostic fibreoptic investigation that enables growths in the bowel (polyps) to be detected. Some of these polyps can develop into cancer. Although colonoscopy is the most accurate available test for the detection of these growths, some polyps, especially smaller ones, can be missed for a variety of reasons, including how well the polyp can be seen against the background of the normal lining of the large intestine (mucosa). It is important to identify even small polyps, which are often the precursors to cancer. Dye spraying (chromoscopy) is one of the simpler ways to make polyps stand out against the normal bowel mucosa, and hence be more easily seen. 
Objectives 
We aimed to evaluate whether or not chromoscopy improves polyp detection in people undergoing screening for colorectal cancer. 
Study characteristics 
Following a rigorous review of the literature, we included seven studies in our analysis with a total of 2727 participants. We included all studies that compared chromoscopy and conventional colonoscopy of the entire colon in people at risk of having polyps. The participants in the studies varied, however all were considered to be at low or average risk of developing polyps. 
All the included studies randomised people to either conventional colonoscopy or chromoscopy. Two trials used a study design that differed from the others, by performing a conventional colonoscopy in all people first and removing any polyps observed, then randomising people to either conventional colonoscopy or chromoscopy. The goal of these studies was to determine the number of extra polyps identified with the two techniques, rather than the total number of polyps. 
Key findings 
The analysis showed that the rate of detection of small polyps was improved by chromoscopy by about 90%. Of even greater clinical importance, the analysis showed that the detection of small polyps that could potentially develop into cancer was increased by about 30% when chromoscopy was used. The detection rate was not different in people with large polyps or cancer, as these are easily enough seen at conventional colonoscopy. No adverse events were reported related to the use of the contrast dye. 
Quality of the evidence 
There were drawbacks to the quality of the evidence based on methodology. On a basic level, study designs of this type do not allow blinding of the examiner. More subtle variations in study design also introduced variation in the data that could impact the reliability of the results. For example, in some studies the time spent examining the colon was standardised in both people undergoing chromoscopy and those undergoing conventional colonoscopy, whereas in other studies it was not; as the time spent examining the bowel will influence the number of polyps detected, and this standardisation does not reflect clinical practice, this makes generalising results from these studies to clinical practice more difficult. Other potential causes of variation included the different points of randomisation of participants (that is before the single colonoscopy or before a second procedure, that latter which as highlighted earlier looks only at additional polyps identified) and the reasons for the people undergoing colonoscopy (for example people taking part in a general screening programme may have smaller and less easily detected polyps than those presenting with symptoms). 
