Weight loss programmes for overweight and obese breast cancer survivors: what are their benefits and harms, and do they help survivors to live longer? 
What is a healthy weight? 
Body mass index (BMI) assesses whether people are a healthy weight for their height. A BMI of 18 to 25 shows a healthy weight, a BMI over 25 indicates being overweight, and a BMI over 30 indicates obesity. 
Breast cancer and weight 
People with a BMI over 25 are more likely to develop a recurrence of their breast cancer. Obesity can also affect people's quality of life (well‐being) and can lead to serious and life‐threatening conditions, including type 2 diabetes, coronary heart disease and stroke. After successful treatment for breast cancer, people with a BMI over 25 are advised to lose weight. 
Losing weight 
The most common method for losing weight is to reduce the number of calories eaten and to increase physical activity. A healthy, reduced‐calorie diet and regular exercise may be combined with psychosocial support. Some weight loss programmes include all three elements. 
Why we did this Cochrane Review 
We wanted to identify which weight‐loss programmes work best to help overweight and obese breast cancer survivors to lose weight; and whether the programmes had advantages or unwanted effects. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that assessed weight loss programmes in survivors of early‐stage breast cancer who had a BMI over 25 and no evidence that their cancer had returned. We looked for randomised controlled studies, in which the programmes people received were decided at random. This type of study usually gives the most reliable evidence about the effects of a programme. 
We wanted to know how weight loss programmes affected:‐how long people lived;‐whether their breast cancer returned;‐the length of time before the cancer returned;‐how many people died;‐body weight;‐measurements of waist size;‐people's quality of life (well‐being); or‐had any unwanted effects. 
Search date: we included evidence published up to June 2019. 
What we found 
We found 20 relevant studies in 2028 women. The studies compared participation in a weight‐loss programme to not participating in one but receiving usual care, a placebo (dummy) treatment, a different type of weight‐loss programme, written information, or being on a waiting list instead. All the programmes included dietary changes; some combined these with exercise or psychosocial support, or both. 
Most studies were conducted in the USA. The weight loss programmes lasted from two weeks to two years; the people participating were followed for three months to 36 months after starting their programme. 
None of the studies reported results for: how long people lived; or the length of time before their cancer returned, or how many people died. Few studies reported about the effect of weight loss programmes on the return of breast cancer. 
What are the results of our review? 
Compared with those not participating in a weight loss programme, breast cancer survivors with a BMI over 25 who take part in one may:‐lose more body weight; ‐have greater reductions in their waist size and BMI; and‐improve their well‐being. 
Taking part in a weight loss programme did not cause more unwanted effects.
Programmes combining diet with exercise or psychosocial support, or both, seemed to reduce body weight and waist size more than programmes based on dietary changes alone. 
Our confidence in these results 
Our confidence in these results is generally low. We identified limitations in the ways that some of the studies were designed and conducted, and the people taking part and those assessing them knew who received which treatments, which could have affected the study results. 
