Hip replacement surgery in adults
This review assessed evidence from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) and quasi‐RCTs, on the benefits and harms of different types of hip replacement used to treat hip fracture in adults. 
Background 
A hip fracture is a break at the top of the leg bone. These types of breaks are common in older adults whose bones may be fragile because of a condition called osteoporosis. One method of treatment is to replace the broken hip with an artifical one. This can be done using a hemiarthroplasty (HA), which replaces part of the hip joint (the ball part of the joint). These replacements can be unipolar (a single artificial joint), or bipolar (with an additional joint within the HA). Alternatively, surgery may replace the whole hip joint, which also includes the socket in which the ball of the hip joint sits ‐ this a total hip arthroplasty (THA). Both of these artificial joints can be fixed in place with or without bone cement. 
Search date 
We searched for RCTs (clinical studies where people are randomly assigned to treatment groups), and quasi‐RCTs (in which people are put into groups by a method which is not randomised, such as date of birth or hospital record number) up to 6 July 2020. 
Study characteristics 
We included 58 studies, involving 10,654 adults with 10,662 hip fractures. Study participants ranged from 63 to 87 years of age, and 71% were women, which is usual for people who have this type of hip fracture. 
Key results 
Cemented HAs compared to uncemented HAs (17 studies, 3644 participants) 
We found that cemented HAs improve health‐related quality of life (HRQoL) and reduce the risk of death at 12 months after surgery. The sizes of these benefits ranged from a small to a large effect. There may be little or no difference between treatments in the ability to use the hip (functional status), but this evidence was very uncertain. Whether or not the HA is cemented probably makes little or no difference to performance in activities of daily living (ADL) or the ability to walk independently, how many people experience confusion after surgery (delirium), die within four months of surgery, or need additional surgery. Most complication risks were similar, but we noted that some risks related directly to hip replacement surgery (such as causing a break during surgery) were increased with uncemented HAs. 
Bipolar HAs compared to unipolar HAs (13 studies, 1499 participants) 
The type of HA probably makes little or no difference to how many people die within four months or up to 12 months after surgery, and may make little or no difference to the need for additional surgery. No studies reported four‐month ADL and functional status. The evidence was very uncertain whether using a bipolar or unipolar HA makes any difference to delirium or HRQoL within four months of surgery. Again, complication risks were similar, and we found no evidence of a difference in the risk of hip dislocation. 
THAs compared to HAs (17 studies, 3232 participants) 
We are uncertain whether ADL, functional status, delirium, mobility, or deaths within four months or up to 12 months after surgery are different between these treatments. The evidence did not show a difference in the risk of additional surgery but we could not exclude the possibility of an important benefit of THA. Although the risk of most complications was similar, hip dislocation is increased with THA. 
