When healthcare consumers (patients, carers and family members) and healthcare providers work together as partners to plan, deliver and evaluate health services, what effects does this have? 
What are person‐centred health services? 
Traditionally, health services have been developed by healthcare providers and focus on specific diseases or medical specialties. Involving consumers as partners in planning, delivering and evaluating health services may lead to services that are better able to meet the needs of and provide care for individuals.  
Why we did this Cochrane review 
Governments worldwide recommend that healthcare providers work with consumers to promote person‐centred health services. However, the effects of healthcare providers and consumers working together are unclear. 
We reviewed the evidence from research studies to find out about the effects of healthcare providers and consumers working together to plan, deliver and evaluate health services. 
Specifically, we wanted to know if consumers and healthcare providers working together in partnership – in the form of regular meetings in which consumers and providers were invited to contribute as equals to decisions about health services – had an impact on: 
‐ changes to health services;
‐ the extent to which changes to health services reflected service users’ priorities;
‐ users’ ratings of health services;
‐ health service use; and
‐ time and money needed to make or act on decisions about health services.
We also wanted to find out if there were any unwanted (adverse) effects.    
What did we do? 
First, we searched the medical literature for studies that compared:
‐ consumers and healthcare providers working in partnership against usual practice or other strategies with no partnership; or 
‐ different ways of working in partnership (for example, with fewer or more consumers, or with online or face‐to‐face meetings). 
We then compared the results, and summarised the evidence from all the studies. Finally, we rated our confidence in the evidence, based on factors such as study methods and sizes, and the consistency of findings across studies. 
