Do any treatments help people who have successfully quit smoking to avoid starting smoking again? 
Background 
Some people start smoking again shortly after quitting and are said to have 'relapsed'. Treatments used to help people avoid relapse usually focus on teaching the skills to cope with temptations to smoke, but can also involve extending the length of the treatment that helped them to quit, or giving additional treatment, like follow‐up calls, leaflets, or stop‐smoking medicine. We set out to see if these types of approaches can be helpful, either for people who quit on their own or with the help of treatment, or for those who quit because they were pregnant or in hospital. 
Study characteristics 
We updated our searches of research databases in May 2019. We found 81 studies that tested various ways of trying to help people who had recently quit smoking not to relapse. Five of them were new for this update. Fifty studies included people who had already quit, and 30 studies helped people to quit and then tested treatments to prevent relapse. Twenty‐eight studies focused on people who needed to stop smoking for a limited period of time because they were pregnant (19 studies), in hospital (six studies), or because of military service (three studies). Most of the studies used behavioural support treatments that tried to teach people skills to cope with the urge to smoke, or followed up with additional leaflets or calls, internet or mobile phone resources, or additional counselling. Some studies tested extending the use of medicines for helping people to quit smoking, in the hope of preventing relapse. 
Key results 
The evidence we found does not support the use of behavioural treatments to help prevent relapse after quitting smoking. This result was the same in all of the different groups of people studied. The most promising treatments involved extending treatment with stop‐smoking medicine, in particular, varenicline. Extending treatment with bupropion did not appear to help and there was not enough evidence on extending treatment with nicotine replacement therapy. 
Certainty of the evidence 
For behavioural treatments, the certainty of the evidence was moderate. This is because of the diversity of results among studies. The certainty of evidence for treatments with quit‐smoking medicines varied. There was moderate‐certainty evidence for varenicline, moderate‐certainty evidence for bupropion, and low‐certainty evidence for nicotine replacement therapy (NRT), and for NRT and bupropion together. Certainty in the evidence was limited by small study sizes. 
