Which are the best treatments for hip fractures in older adults?
Key messages 
‐ There is no 'best treatment' for this type of broken hip. 
‐ More people needed additional surgery on their broken hip after treatment with condylocephalic nails (where a nail is inserted upwards from the knee towards the hip joint) or static fixed angle plates (where pins or screws attach a plate to the broken bone).   
‐ There may be no difference between a short cephalomedullary nail (where a nail is inserted downwards from the hip joint towards the knee) and a dynamic fixed angle plate (where the pins or screws attaching a plate to the broken bone are able to slide in a sleeve).  
‐ We found too few studies to know whether any of these treatments were better at improving people's quality of life after surgery. 
Hip fractures in older people 
A hip fractures is a break at the top of the leg bone. There are two types of hip fractures; in this review, we included people with a break just outside the hip joint. The other type of hip fracture is a break just below the ball and socket joint ‐ we reviewed these fractures in another review. Both types of broken hip are common in older adults whose bones may be fragile because of a condition called osteoporosis. 
What are the treatments? 
‐ Using metal implants to fix the broken parts of the bone. A nail is inserted inside the thigh bone. These long or short nails may be inserted downwards from the hip joint towards the knee (cephalomedullary nails). Some nails may be inserted upwards from the knee towards the hip joint (condylocephalic nail). Alternatively, the surgeon may use a 'fixed angle plate' which sits on the outer edge of the broken bone and is attached to the bone with screws or pins. Often the screws for these plates slide in a sleeve and the plate is called a dynamic fixed angle plate. Without this, it is a static fixed angle plate. 
‐ Replacing the broken hip with an artificial one. This can be done using a hemiarthroplasty (HA), which replaces only the ball part of the joint, or with a total hip arthroplasty (THA) which replaces all of the hip joint including the socket. 
‐ Using external fixation. Pins or screws are placed into the bones around the fracture and a metal frame holds these nails in place. The frame sits outside the body, around the broken hip. 
‐ Treatment without an operation, usually requiring a period of rest in bed whilst the leg is held in position using traction with weights. 
What did we do? 
We searched for studies that compared one or more of these treatments. We wanted to find out the benefits and harms of these different treatments. We combined the findings from studies, and created a 'network' (which is used when researchers compare all available treatments in a single analysis called a 'network meta‐analysis') to see if we could find out if some treatments were better than others. 
What did we find? 
We found 184 studies with 26,073 people who had this type of hip fracture. Most people were aged between 60 and 93 years, and 69% were women, which is usual for people with this type of broken bone. We included 73 of these studies in our 'network'. 
We found little or no difference in how many people died with each treatment. We were not sure whether any of the treatments were better than another at reducing deaths within 12 months of surgery.  
For most treatments, we also found little or no difference in whether people needed to have additional surgery on their broken hip. However, for the condylocephalic nail and the static fixed angle plate, more people needed additional surgery compared to people treated with a dynamic fixed angle plate. It seemed that these treatments increased the chance of needing additional surgery. 
Very few studies reported whether or not people had better health‐related quality of life after their treatment. 
 Are we confident in what we found? 
We are not very confident in these findings because:
‐ most of the studies were not well reported. It is possible that their study methods could introduce errors in their results; 
‐ we found some differences between some of the study results which we could not explain;
‐ we found some differences in the types of fractures in some studies; 
‐ most treatments included the possibility of a benefit (for example, fewer deaths) as well as the possibility of a harm (for example, more deaths). This made the result very uncertain. 
The true effects of these treatments might be very different to what we have found in this review.  
How up to date is this review? 
The evidence is up to date to July 2020.
