Clinical Trial RESULTS
Before you started the study, researchers asked about your medical history. You had a physical examination
and other tests to make sure you could participate. All 80 participants took all of the treatments in either
Part 1 or Part 2.
During the study, researchers did tests to check participants’ health, such as blood pressure tests and
electrocardiograms, or ECGs. You and other participants had 12 total visits during the study. Your last visit
was about 3 days after taking the last dose in either Part 1 or Part 2. At this visit, researchers repeated several
of the tests to make sure you and other participants were still healthy.
Part 1
Participants were randomly assigned to take all 4 treatments below. Every participant took the drugs
in a different order. Each treatment period lasted 3 days.
Treatment A: Dapagliflozin/metformin 5/500 mg pill from the Mount Vernon facility with food
Treatment B: Dapagliflozin/metformin 5/500 mg pill from the Humacao facility with food
Treatment C: Dapagliflozin/metformin 5/500 mg pill from the Mount Vernon facility without food
Treatment D: Dapagliflozin/metformin 5/500 mg pill from the Humacao facility without food
You and all the other participants stopped taking any study drugs for 7 to 14 days between treatments.
This helped get rid of any effects from the previous treatment.
Part 2
Participants were randomly assigned to take all 4 treatments below. Every participant took the drugs
in a different order. Each treatment period lasted 3 days.
Treatment E: Dapagliflozin/metformin 10/1000 mg pill from the Mount Vernon facility with food
Treatment F: Dapagliflozin/metformin 10/1000 mg pill from the Humacao facility with food
Treatment G: Dapagliflozin/metformin 10/1000 mg pill from the Mount Vernon facility without food
Treatment H: Dapagliflozin/metformin 10/1000 mg pill from the Humacao facility without food
You and all the other participants stopped taking any study drugs for 7 to 14 days between treatments, just like
in Part 1. This helped get rid of any effects from the previous treatment.
What were the study results?
Below is a summary of the results of some of the questions the researchers asked. It is important to know that
researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which drugs work best and are safest for patients,
even approved drugs that are already on the market like dapagliflozin and metformin.
Does a pill with 5/500 mg of dapagliflozin and metformin made in Mount Vernon, Indiana have
a similar effect on healthy participants as a pill with the same drugs and dose made in Humacao,
Puerto Rico?
Yes. Researchers took blood samples to compare the effects of the 5/500 mg pill of dapagliflozin and
metformin from the 2 facilities. They learned about:
The amount of the study drugs in participants’ blood
Researchers measured the amount of study drugs in participants’ blood using nanogram hours per milliliter
(ng h/mL). This is a scientifically accepted unit of measure. Researchers found that participants had similar
amounts of the study drugs in their blood, whether the pills were made in Mount Vernon or Humacao. They
also found similar amounts whether participants took the drugs with or without food.
3