Clinical Trial RESULTS
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in March 2016 and ended in April 2016. It included 40 participants at
1 study site in Russia. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created
a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug, or combination of drugs, can be given to patients, the company
developing the treatment must do research studies to show that it is safe and effective.
The first step in studying a new combination of drugs is to test it in healthy people,
or people without any serious health problems. The study drugs, dapagliflozin and
metformin, have both been approved in Russia to treat diabetes separately, but
not together.
Researchers in your study tested a pill made from both dapagliflozin and metformin.
Researchers already know how each study drug is absorbed, broken down, and removed
from the body alone. But, in this study researchers wanted to know how the body
absorbs, breaks down, and removes the study drugs when they are taken together.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did the combination tablet of dapagliflozin and metformin together
act compared to dapagliflozin and metformin alone?
• What medical problems did participants have after they took the study drugs
in the combination tablet or alone?
What kind of study was this?
This study was an “open label” study. This means that the participants and the study
staff knew what study drug each participant took. Participants were “randomized” into
2 groups. This means that each participant had the same chance of being put into each
group. Half of the participants were put into Group 1, and half of the participants were
put into Group 2. Participants stayed in the same group for the whole study.
The study was a “crossover” study. In a “crossover” study, all participants get the same
treatments and tests, but the treatments are given in a random order. This means that all
participants received the same treatments but in a different sequence.
2