Clinical Trial RESULTS
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to 25 days. Before the study
started, there was a “washout period” of 14 days. During the “washout period”,
participants were not allowed to take certain medications. This means that when
participants started the study, their bodies had processed all of the medications in
their blood, and the medications were “washed out” of their bodies
This study had 2 sequences of treatment. All participants took both types of
medications, but in a different order. Participants completed another 7 day “washout
period” between the 2 treatments.
The first treatment was 1 combination tablet of 10 mg of dapagliflozin and 1000
mg of metformin, which participants took 30 minutes after eating breakfast 1 time.
The second treatment was one 10 mg tablet of dapagliflozin and two 500 mg
tablets of metformin, which participants took 30 minutes after eating breakfast 1
time. Participants in Group 1 took the combination tablet first, then the 3 tablets.
Participants in Group 2 took the 3 tablets first, then the combination tablet.
Throughout the study, doctors checked participants’ blood pressure, heart rate, body
temperature, and took blood samples before and after taking their tablets.
Group 1 Period I: 20 Group 2 Period I: 20
participants got participants got 3
1 combination 7-day tablets: with food
tablet: with food “washout period”
Period II: 20 participants
got 3 tablets: with food
2 treatment periods 2 treatment periods
------------------------------ OR ------------------------------
Group 2 Period I: 20 Group 1 Period I: 20
participants got 3 participants got
7-day
tablets: with food 1 combination
“washout period”
tablet: with food
Period II: 20 participants
got 1 combination
tablet: with food
2 treatment periods 2 treatment periods
Throughout the study, researchers did tests to check participants’ blood pressure
and overall health. Researchers also checked participants’ heart rate using
electrocardiograms, or ECGs. At the final visit, researchers repeated some of the same
tests they did during the study to make sure you and the other participants were
still healthy.
3