Clinical Study Results
Research sponsor: AstraZeneca
Drug studied: Tralokinumab
Study title: A study to learn if tralokinumab is safe to take for patients
with severe, uncontrolled asthma
Thank you!
Thank you to the participants who took part in the clinical trial for the study drug tralokinumab.
You and all of the participants helped researchers learn more about tralokinumab to help
patients with asthma.
AstraZeneca sponsored this study and thinks it is important to share the results of the study
with you and the public. An independent, non-profit organization called CISCRP helped prepare
this summary of the study results for you.
If you participated in the study and have questions about the results, please speak with the
doctor or staff at your study site.
What is happening with the study now?
The participants were scheduled to be in the study for up to about 1 year. But the study ended
early, so most of the participants were not in the study for 1 year. The entire study took a little
more than 1 year to finish.
The study started in November 2016 and ended in January 2018. The study included
28 participants in Japan.
The study was ended early. This is because the study drug, tralokinumab, is no longer being
developed by AstraZeneca for patients with asthma.
The sponsor reviewed the data collected when the study ended and created a report of the
results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat asthma. Before a drug can be approved for
patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
Asthma is a lung disease that causes redness, swelling, and narrowing of the airways. This
can make it difficult to breathe. Different kinds of medicines can be used to treat these asthma
symptoms by decreasing redness and swelling in the airways. Tralokinumab is a drug that was
created to possibly help reduce redness and swelling in the airways.
The main question researchers wanted to answer in this study was:
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
1