Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions the researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at
the end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also
be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results.
Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did MEDI0382 affect the participants’ overall health?
To answer this question, the researchers studied the results of the participants’
tests and measurements before and after they took study treatment. Then they
compared the results for the participants who took MEDI0382 and those who took
the placebo.
Overall, the researchers found that there were no significant changes in the results
of the blood and urine tests, physical exams, and ECG tests between participants
who got MEDI0382 and those who got placebo.
But, the researchers found that the participants who got MEDI0382 had an increase
in heart rate compared with those participants who got the placebo. At the end of
the study, the participants who got MEDI0382 had their heart rate increase by an
average of 14 beats per minute.
The doctors also kept track of the “adverse events” that the participants had. An
adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a study.
An adverse event is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting
problems, or the participant requires hospital care.
Adverse events may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse event.
Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even if they do
not think the adverse events might be related to the study drug.
6