Clinical Trial Results
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in February 2016 and ended in December 2016. The study included
4 participants at 1 study site in the United Kingdom. When the study ended, the sponsor
reviewed the data and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be approved, research must be done to show that it is safe and
effective. The study drug AZD2014 is being developed to treat advanced tumours. In
healthy people, a protein called mTOR controls the growth and energy needs of cells. But
this protein can become too active in people with cancer. This can make cells grow and
multiply too much. Too much cell growth can create a tumour. AZD2014 blocks mTOR so
that tumours cannot grow.
In this study, researchers wanted to see how the body reacts to AZD2014 treatment. In one
participant in this study, researchers also looked at a drug called fulvestrant, another cancer
drug that is already approved to treat tumours in the United Kingdom. Researchers studied
the effects of AZD2014 when it was given as a solution to drink or tablets to swallow.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How much AZD2014 got into the blood and saliva, and how much AZD2014 left
the body?
• How did tumours react to AZD2014 treatment?
• What medical problems did participants have after they took AZD2014?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was an “open-label” study. This means that all of the participants, study doctors,
and staff knew what treatment each participant took. This study had 2 parts: Part 1 and
Part 2. All participants participated in both parts.
Your study included 4 participants. All of the men and women who participated in this study
were between 49 and 65 years of age.
What happened during the study?
You and the other participants who completed the study were in the study for about
5 months. All participants who participated in Part 1 went on to Part 2.
Before the study started, study doctors did a physical examination, including checking your
height, weight, and heart health. They also measured your tumour and asked about your
medical history, how you were feeling, and what medicines you were taking.
During Part 1, you took 1 dose of AZD2014 and stayed at the clinic for 8 days. In that time,
study doctors took samples of your urine, faeces, saliva, vomit, and blood. The AZD2014 had
a radioactive tag so that researchers could measure how much of the drug left your body
through urine, faeces, saliva, and vomit.
UK 2