Clinical Study Results
There was a “washout period” of about 1 week in between each treatment visit. During
this time, the participants did not take any study treatment. This was done so that each
treatment could be “washed out” of their bodies before they took the next treatment.
About 2 weeks after taking the last treatment, the participants visited their study
site 1 last time. At this visit, the study doctors checked the participants’ health and asked
them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is an overall summary of the main results from this study. The results for each
participant might be different and are not included in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk
to a doctor before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
How did the AZD1402 treatments act in the body?
Overall, the researchers found that AZD1402 acted as they thought it would in the body.
The researchers thought the amount of the drug in the body would be highest when the
participants took the high dose of AZD1402 as a powder through an inhaler. Overall after
treatment, the researchers found that this was true.
The researchers considered the dose amounts to be similar between the liquid dose of
AZD1402 taken through a nebulizer and the low dose of AZD1402 taken as a powder
through an inhaler. So, the researchers thought that the amount of the drug in the body
would be similar when the participants took these 2 treatments. Overall after treatment,
the researchers found that this was true.
To learn how AZD1402 acted in the body, the researchers took blood samples from the
participants throughout the study. Then, they used several measurements to study and
compare the results.
At each treatment visit, the study doctors took blood measurements. The researchers
focused on the amount of AZD1402 in the blood over the 48-hour period after treatment.
4