Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
The chart below shows how the study was done.
Before getting treatment During the study After getting treatment
The doctors checked to make sure the The doctors: In Parts A and B
participants could join the study. The • checked the overall health of participants The doctors checked the health of the
doctors: • took blood and urine samples participants 28 days later. This included:
• took blood and urine samples • took samples of the tumor • taking vital signs
• checked participants’ heart health • did CT scans • testing the health of the heart using
using an echocardiogram, also • tested the health of the heart using an ECG an ECG
called an ECG
• checking the size of the tumor
• measured the size of tumor using
a CT scan
Part A The doctors also checked whether
• used a needle to take a some of the participants had any medical
The 37 participants visited the study site an
the tumor tissue to examine, also problems for 250 days after their
average of 14 times during Cycles 1–5.
called tumor biopsy last dose of fulvestrant.
• tested the health of the heart
using an echocardiogram, also Up to 250 days
called ECHO, or a multigated
acquisition scan, also called Part B In Part B
MUGA The 17 participants visited the study site an The doctors also checked the
average of 13 times during Cycles 1–5. health of participants every
Up to 28 days before before 2 months until cancer worsened,
the study drugs then every 3 months after that.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant
had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers
wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full
report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk
to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did the study drugs affect the participants’ safety results?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that there were some changes in the participants’
safety results after they took the study drugs.
To answer this question, the doctors compared the results of the tests and measurements
they did before the participants took the study drugs, and throughout the study.
5