Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat COPD. COPD is a disease that
can cause inflammation in the lungs, which can make it difficult to breathe. Before
a treatment can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to
find out how it works and how safe it is.
In this study, budesonide and formoterol fumarate were given in a type of inhaler
called a metered dose inhaler, or MDI. These same medicines are also included in
another MDI, which is approved in the US and other countries to treat COPD. These
medicines are also approved in some countries in a different type of inhaler called a
dry powder inhaler, or Turbuhaler, also known as TBH.
In this study, researchers wanted to find out if different treatments of budesonide and
formoterol fumarate both used together and separately in a specific MDI work in a
large number of participants with moderate to very severe COPD. They also wanted
to find out if the participants had any medical problems during the study.
The main questions researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did the treatments affect how much air participants can exhale from the
lungs in 1 second, also called lung function?
• Did the different treatments affect the participants in other ways?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of men and
women with moderate to very severe COPD. The participants in this study were
40 to 80 years of age when they enrolled in the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are
done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can
affect the results of the study.
When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
took. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so
that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2