The table below shows the different methods the researchers used to find out if
dapagliflozin was helping the participants.
KCCQ-TSS KCCQ-PLS 6MWD
What does it Kansas City Kansas City 6 Minute Walk Distance
stand for? Cardiomyopathy Cardiomyopathy
Questionnaire – Total Questionnaire – Physical
Symptom Score Limitation Score
What does it Overall heart failure Physical symptoms How far a person can walk in
measure? symptoms caused by heart failure 6 minutes
What does the Answering 7 questions Answering 6 questions The participant walks for 6
test involve? about overall heart about physical minutes and the study doctor
failure symptoms symptoms measures how far they walked
What do the The questionnaires are scored from 0 to 100. A The distance the participant
scores mean? higher score means fewer heart failure symptoms walked is measured in meters,
or less severe physical symptoms also called m. A longer
distance means less impact
of severe symptoms on the
participant’s ability to walk
When were At study site visits or a phone call if a site visit was At study site visits
these tests not possible due to the COVID-19 pandemic
done during the
study?
Which The participants’ results were only included if they: The participant’s results were
participants’ • had completed the tests at the start and end of only included if they:
results were the study, and before the COVID-19 pandemic • had completed the
included? started, or 6MWD at the start and
end of the study, or
• died during the study
• died during the study
How did the For all 3 tests, the study doctors compared the participants’ scores at the start
researchers of the study with their scores 16 weeks after starting study treatment. Then, they
use these test compared the results between the participants who took dapagliflozin and those
results in the who took a placebo. To do this, they used a type of average called a median. In a
study? set of numbers, the median is the middle number between the lowest and highest
numbers.
10 | Clinical Study Results