What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study
results.
What signs and symptoms did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the study doctors did tests and measurements before and
after the participants took AZD4635. The doctors did physical exams and tested
the participants’ blood and urine samples to check their overall health. They also
checked the participants’ heart health using certain tests and scans. These were
ECGs and echocardiograms, which are ultrasound scans of the heart. The doctors
also did a MUGA scan, which is a different type of scan that can measure how well
the heart is pumping out blood.
Overall, the researchers found that from the start of the study, there were some
small changes in the results of these tests and measurements. But, the researchers
did not consider these to be meaningful.
The study doctors also kept track of the “adverse events” that the participants
had. An adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a
study. Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even if
they do not think the adverse events might be related to the study treatment.
Later in this document, there will be a summary of the adverse events that the
study doctors thought might be related to the study treatment. This section
is a summary of all the adverse events, whether they might be related to the
study treatment or not. An adverse event is considered “serious” when it is life-
threatening, causes lasting problems, or the participant needs hospital care.
Adverse events may or may not be caused by the treatments in the study. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse event.
5 | Clinical Study Results