What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed
at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it
can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
How many participants’ tumors disappeared or shrank after receiving
AZD4635 with durvalumab or with oleclumab?
Overall, the researchers found that after receiving AZD4635 with durvalumab:
X 1 out of 20 participants had their tumors disappear. This was 5.0% of participants.
X None of the other participants’ tumors shrank.
Overall, the researchers found that after receiving AZD4635 with oleclumab:
X None of the participants’ tumors disappeared.
X None of the participants’ tumors shrank.
To answer this question, the study doctors took pictures of the participants’ tumors
using different types of scans. Then, the study doctors measured the size of the
participants’ tumors before they received study treatment and throughout the
study. To do this, they used a set of rules commonly used in cancer clinical studies
called Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, also called “RECIST”.
The researchers calculated the percentage of participants whose tumors
disappeared or shrank. This percentage of participants needed to be at least
25.0% for the researchers to decide that AZD4635 with durvalumab or with
oleclumab worked in a meaningful way.
Only some of the participants from each group met the RECIST rules and were
able to be included in this calculation. There were 20 out of 29 participants
who received AZD4635 with durvalumab that were included, and 21 out of 30
participants who received AZD4635 with oleclumab that were included.
8 | Clinical Study Results