Clinical Study Results
What medical problems happened during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the
study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drugs. These medical
problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious”
when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drugs. A lot of research
is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. These adverse reactions
have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of the available data for the
study drugs.
There was 1 participant who left the study before completing all parts. So, some of the
below results are for 15 out of the 16 participants.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
Did any adverse reactions happen during this study?
There were 13.3% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study that the
study doctors thought might be related to itraconazole. This was 2 out of 15 participants.
None of the participants had adverse reactions during the study that the study doctors
thought might be related to savolitinib.
None of the participants left the study due to adverse reactions.
What serious adverse reactions happened during this study?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during this study.
None of the participants died due to serious adverse reactions during this study.
What adverse reactions happened during this study?
There were 2 adverse reactions that happened during this study. The study doctors
thought that both adverse reactions might be related to itraconazole:
• Cough happened in 6.7% of participants. This was 1 out of 15 participants.
• Swelling and sores inside the mouth happened in 6.7% of participants. This was 1
out of 15 participants.
6