Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat COPD. COPD is a disease that can cause
inflammation in the lungs, which can make it difficult to breathe. Before a treatment can be
approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it works and how
safe it is.
At the time of this study, budesonide was available as a treatment for COPD when taken with
formoterol fumarate through an inhaler. Formoterol fumarate was available as a treatment for
COPD by itself through an inhaler.
The researchers compared 3 treatments:
• an inhaler that contained budesonide at a higher dose and formoterol fumarate together
• an inhaler that contained budesonide at a lower dose and formoterol fumarate together
• an inhaler that contained formoterol fumarate by itself
The main questions researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did the treatments affect how much air participants can exhale from the lungs in
1 second, also called lung function?
• Did the different treatments affect the participants in other ways?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of men and women with
moderate to very severe COPD. The participants in this study were 40 to 80 years of age when
they enrolled in the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other study staff
knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done this way because knowing
what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results of the study.
When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment participants took so they
could create a report of the study results.
The participants in the study took either 2 different doses of budesonide and formoterol fumarate
together or formoterol fumarate by itself. Both treatments were taken through an inhaler.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant took. This
helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results
of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2