Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Asthma is a disease that can cause swelling in the lungs. This swelling can lead to
several symptoms, such as chest pain, coughing, and difficulty breathing. Currently, there
is no cure for this disease.
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have asthma. Before a drug
can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it
works and how safe it is.
The researchers in this study wanted to learn if the study drug, AZD1419, could help
control the participants’ asthma and decrease their symptoms. The researchers also
wanted to know if AZD1419 could help decrease how often the participants needed to
take their asthma treatments, and if they had any medical problems during the study.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Can AZD1419 help control asthma?
• Can AZD1419 help decrease asthma symptoms?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women who have asthma. The participants in this study were 24 to 76 years old when
they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other
study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done this way
because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results of
the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
In this study, the participants took either AZD1419 or a placebo treatment through an
inhaler. A placebo treatment looks like a drug treatment but does not have any medicine
in it. Researchers use placebo treatments to help make sure that any of the effects they
see in the participants who take the study drug treatment are caused by the study drug.
The doses of AZD1419 were measured in milligrams, also called mg.
2