Clinical Study Results
Participants took part in all 4 parts of the study, but in a different order. In total, the participants
stayed at the study center 4 times, and visited the study center 28 times for blood tests. A total
of 53 participants took part in the study and got at least 1 injection. Some participants left the
study before they got all 4 forms of epoetin alfa. A total of 47 participants completed the study
and 6 participants left the study early.
After all 4 parts, the participants visited their study center 1 more time. The doctors asked how
they were feeling and took blood samples.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
Was the amount of the US and European forms of epoetin alfa in the blood
similar over time?
Yes. Although there was a small difference between the European and US forms, the difference
was so small that researchers considered them to be the same.
To answer this question, the doctors measured the amount of epoetin alfa in the blood at different
times during the 48 hours after each injection. They then calculated the average amount of each
form of epoetin alfa in the blood.
Once the researchers found the averages, they calculated the ratio as a percentage. In this
study, the researchers compared the following forms of epoetin alfa:
• The European forms (Form A and Form B) to the first US form (Form C)
• The European forms (Form A and Form B) to the second US form (Form D)
When comparing the different forms, percentages between 80% and 125% were considered to
mean that a similar amount of epoetin alfa was in the blood over time. A percentage higher than
100% meant that there was more of the US form than the European form. A percentage lower
than 100% meant that there was more of the European form than the US form.
When comparing Forms A and B to Form C, the researchers found that the ratio of the other
forms of epoetin alfa in the participants’ blood was:
• 88.8% for Form A
• 100.6% for Form B
3