Clinical Study Results
The answers to these questions are important to know to understand if the different forms of
epoetin alfa that are available in different countries work in the same way.
The researchers asked for the help of healthy men with normal amounts of red blood cells.
Everyone in the study was 23 to 50 years old when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew what the
participant was getting.
All of the participants in this study got an injection of epoetin alfa through a needle into their
blood. There were 4 different forms of epoetin alfa:
• Form A, also known as Binocrit, available in Europe
• Form B, also known as Eprex, available in Europe
• Form C, also known as Epogen batch 1, available in the US
• Form D, also known as Epogen batch 2, available in the US
The participants got 1 injection of each of the forms, but in a different order. A computer program
was used to randomly choose the order that each participant got the treatments. This helps make
sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each
treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before taking epoetin alfa, the doctors checked the overall health of the participants to make
sure that they could join the study. This included:
• blood and urine tests
• physical examinations, blood pressure, and pulse rate measurements
• heart health tests using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
There were 4 parts to this study. Each part lasted 4 weeks. Each participant took a different form
of epoetin alfa during each part.
In each part, the participants visited their study center and stayed overnight. Each participant
got an injection of epoetin alfa, had blood tests, and had their blood pressure and pulse rate
measured. They visited their study center 24 hours before the injection and stayed until 48 hours
after the injection.
The participants visited their study center 7 more times for blood tests. They did not need to stay
overnight for these blood tests.
2