Clinical Trial Results
Percentage of participants who had an increase of at least 320 antibodies at Week 12
Researchers measured the percentage of participants who had at least 320 antibodies in Week 12.
They found that the percentage of participants who had at least 320 antibodies was higher when
participants got Strains 1 and 2 compared to Strains 3 and 4 for both treatment groups.
Did benralizumab reduce participants’ asthma symptoms?
Researchers also wanted to learn if benralizumab reduced asthma symptoms. To do this, researchers
gave participants a survey about their asthma symptoms at different times throughout the study. They
compared these survey scores with the scores that participants reported at the beginning of the study.
Overall, participants who got benralizumab and participants who got the placebo both reported
reduced asthma symptoms at Week 4. This reduction was still consistent at Week 8 and Week 12 for
both treatment groups. At Week 12, participants who got benralizumab reported a slightly higher
reduction in asthma symptoms compared to the placebo group.
What medical problems did participants have during the
study?
A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes a medical problem. Researchers keep track
of all medical problems that participants had have during the study. These medical problems are called
“adverse events”. They may or may not be caused by the study drug.
How many participants had medical problems during the study?
A similar number of participants in each treatment group had medical problems. No participants
stopped study treatment because of medical problems. The table below shows how many participants
in the study had medical problems.
How many participants had medical problems?
30 mg Benralizumab Placebo Total
(Out of 51 (Out of 52 (Out of 103
participants) participants) participants)
How many participants had
43.1% (22) 44.2% (23) 43.7% (45)
medical problems?
How many participants had
0.0% (0) 3.8% (2) 1.9% (2)
serious medical problems?
How many participants had serious medical problems?
A medical problem is considered serious when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or needs
hospital care. In this study, no participants died. A total of 2 of the 103 participants (1.9%) in this study
had a serious medical problem. Both of these participants got the placebo:
• Suicidal thoughts in 1 participant who got the placebo
• Severe asthma in 1 participant who got the placebo
Both serious medical problems happened after treatment was over. Study doctors did not think either
of the serious medical problems were related to treatment.
6