Clinical Trial Results
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to 24 weeks and visited your study site up
to 7 times.
Visits 1 and 2 (2 to 4 weeks)
To see if you could join the study, study doctors did a physical examination and checked your
height, weight, and temperature. Study doctors took blood and urine samples and checked your
heart health using an electrocardiogram, or ECG. Study doctors also checked your lung function
and asked about your medical history, how you were feeling, and what medicines you were taking.
If you are female, you had a blood test to make sure you were not pregnant.
Visits 3, 4, and 5 (8 weeks)
Each participant got 1 of 2 treatments in this study:
• 51 participants got a 30 milligram, or mg, injection of benralizumab during Visits 3, 4, and 5
• 52 participants got the placebo during Visits 3, 4, and 5
During Visit 5, you and all other participants got a flu vaccine injection. Researchers gave
participants the vaccine because they wanted to learn how the immune system responded to
benralizumab compared to the placebo, and if benralizumab lowered the effectiveness of the flu
vaccine. Vaccines work by giving you a weak form of a virus that can make you sick. When your body
fights this weak form of the virus, it makes cells called antibodies to protect you against it. If you get
a stronger form of the virus later, your body will be ready to fight it.
During the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking your height, weight, and
temperature. Study doctors also tested blood and urine samples to make sure that participants
were still healthy, and asked participants how they were feeling. Finally, study doctors also checked
your heart health and lung function.
At the end of the study, you and the other participants visited your study site 2 more times so that
the study doctors could check your health again.
Visits 6 and 7 (12 weeks)
During Visit 6, which was the first follow-up visit, study doctors measured the amount of antibodies
that your immune system made to protect you from the flu in the vaccine. During Visit 6, study
doctors checked to see if you had any changes with your immune system or asthma symptoms.
During Visit 7, which was the second follow-up visit, study doctors checked your health again for the
last time in the study.
3