Clinical Trial Results
What has happened since my study ended?
Your study started in July 2016 and ended in January 2017. The study included 103 participants
at 30 study sites in the United States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and
created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be approved, research must be done to show that it is safe and effective.
The study drug, benralizumab, is being developed to treat asthma. Asthma can cause swelling in
the lungs. This swelling can sometimes make breathing difficult. Benralizumab can reduce swelling
in the lungs and make it easier to breathe.
In this study, researchers wanted to learn if benralizumab affects how the lungs and the immune
system react to a flu vaccine in young adults. The vaccine used in this study was created to defend the
body against 4 different types of the flu virus, also known as strains. All participants got the vaccine.
Researchers compared the results on how benralizumab affected all 4 strains of the flu vaccine.
They also compared the results of participants who got a placebo. A placebo looks like the study
drug but contains no real medicine. Researchers use a placebo so that they can compare the results
of participants who get study drugs with the results of participants who get no medicine at all.
Researchers wanted to know:
• Did benralizumab affect how the immune system reacted to the flu vaccine?
• Did benralizumab reduce participants’ asthma symptoms?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was a “double-blind” study. This means that none of the participants, researchers, or
staff knew what treatment each participant got. Some studies are done this way because knowing
what treatment each participant is taking can affect the results of the study. This way, the results are
looked at fairly.
You and other participants got benralizumab or placebo. Which treatment participants got was
decided by chance. For every participant who got benralizumab, 1 participant got a placebo.
Your study included 103 males and females with asthma who were between the ages of 12 and
21 years.
2