Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat lupus and to give the study drug. Before
a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how
safe it is and if it works.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how anifrolumab works in the body of a
small number of participants with lupus. They also wanted to find out if the participants
had any medical problems that occurred during the study.
Lupus is an immune system disease. This means that the body’s natural defense system
attacks healthy tissues. This causes inflammation in the joints, and in the skin and in
other organs.
Researchers think that specific proteins in the body called “type 1 interferons” are
involved in the inflammation that causes lupus. Interferons are also called IFN and are
made by the immune system. In people with immune system diseases like lupus, the
body can make too much IFN. There is also high activity of IFN genes in their blood.
Anifrolumab is an antibody that works by stopping the type 1 IFN from sending signals
through the body. Researchers think that this could reduce inflammation in patients with
lupus and reduce disease symptoms.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about how different doses of
anifrolumab act in the blood.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• What was the highest amount of anifrolumab in the participants’ blood after they got the
first dose?
• What was the amount of anifrolumab in the participants’ blood before the dose at week 12?
• Did the participants have less activity of IFN genes in their blood at week 12 of getting
anifrolumab?
• What medical problems did the participants have that occurred during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women diagnosed with lupus. The participants in this study were aged between 24 and
65. They had high activity of IFN genes in their blood and were already getting treatment
for their lupus.
2