Clinical Trial RESULTS
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in January 2016 and ended in June 2016. It included 30 participants at
1 study site in the United States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and
created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be given to patients, the company developing the drug must do
research studies to show that it is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug
is to test it in healthy people, or people without any serious health problems.
The study drug, AZD7594, is being developed to treat asthma and COPD . Inhalers that
contain steroids are used in patients with asthma and COPD to reduce inflammation, or the
swelling that can occur in tissues in the lungs. This swelling can sometimes make breathing
difficult. AZD7594 does not contain steroids but it works in a similar way to inhalers that do
contain steroids.
Researchers in your study compared different forms of AZD7594. One form was a
pressurized metered dose inhaler, also called a pMDI. The other 2 forms were dry powder
inhalers, called DPI 1 and DPI 2. In all three forms, AZD7594 was put into a sealed chamber.
A dose of the study drug was released every time you pressed the inhaler and breathed in.
Researchers wanted to see how much AZD7594 entered each participant’s blood after
taking it with these different inhalers. They also wanted to compare doses given through
an inhaler with doses given through intravenous therapy, also called an IV. An IV is when
doctors use a needle to inject a treatment into a participant’s vein. Researchers compared
these doses with doses given in liquid form through the mouth as well.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How much AZD7594 entered the blood when participants took it using
DPI 1 compared to DPI 2?
• How did AZD7594 act in the body when participants took it using DPI 1
compared with DPI 2 or a pMDI?
• What medical problems did participants have after they took AZD7594?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was an “open-label” study. This means that the participants and study staff knew
what study drug each participant took.
In this study, everyone took the study drug, but may have taken it using a different inhaler.
Your study included healthy men who were 21 to 45 years old.
2