Clinical Trial RESULTS
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in January 2016 and ended in April 2016. It included 27 participants at
1 study site in the United States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and
created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be given to patients, the company developing the drug must do
research studies to show that it is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug
is to test it in healthy people, or people without any serious health problems.
The study drug, AZD7594, is being developed to treat asthma and COPD. Asthma is a lung
disease that causes chest wheezing and difficulty breathing. COPD is a lung disease that
lessens the flow of air to the lungs.
Inhalers that contain steroids are used by patients with asthma and COPD to reduce
inflammation, or the swelling that can occur in lung tissue. This swelling can sometimes
make breathing difficult. AZD7594 does not contain steroids but it works in a similar way
to inhalers that do contain steroids.
Researchers compared 3 different doses of AZD7594 to a placebo. A placebo looks like
the study drug but contains no real medicine. The study drugs were taken through a dry
powder inhaler, also called a DPI. Researchers wanted to know:
• How did AZD7594 act in the body?
• How was the body affected by AZD7594?
• What medical problems did participants have after they took AZD7594?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was “single-blind”. In this study, this means that some study staff knew what
study drug each participant took, but the participants did not. In this study, participants
took either AZD7594 or a placebo.
Your study included healthy men who were 26 to 44 years old.
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to 59 days. Participants stayed at
the study site for 2 days before receiving the study drug and for 20 days after receiving
the study drug.
2