Clinical Study Results
The study doctors also counted the number of dose-limiting toxicities the participants had during
the study. A dose-limiting toxicity is an adverse event that is severe enough to stop the study
doctor from increasing the participant’s dose of study treatment. A dose-limiting toxicity is also
known as a DLT.
• 2.0% of participants had a DLT during Part A of the study. This was 2 out of 102 participants.
• None of the participants had DLTs during Part B of the study.
Did MEDI4736 with tremelimumab slow the growth of the participants’ tumors?
To answer this question, the study doctors took pictures of the participants’ tumors using MRI
scans. They measured the size of the participants’ tumors before they got study treatment and
throughout the study. To do this, they used a set of rules called Response Evaluation Criteria in
Solid Tumors, also called RECIST.
The researchers looked at these results only for the participants in Part B. This is because the
main purpose of Part A was to learn about different doses. In Part B, the researchers compared
groups of participants who had received different types of treatment before the study.
The results below include information for Groups 2 and 3 in Part B:
• Group 2: Participants who had earlier treatments that were a different kind of treatment than
the study drugs. The results in this section do not include information from 19 participants who
got their MEDI4736 and tremelimumab infusions at the same time.
• Group 3: Participants who had earlier treatments that were the same kind of treatment as the
study drugs. In this group, there were some participants whose cancer had not got better after
earlier treatments. There were also some participants whose cancer had got better but had
come back again.
The researchers found that tumor growth slowed in:
• 16.9% of participants in Group 2. This was 36 out of 213 participants.
• 5.3% of the participants in Group 3 whose cancer had not gotten better after earlier
treatments. This was 2 out of 38 participants.
• None of the 40 participants in Group 3 whose cancer had gotten better after earlier treatments
but had come back again.
7