Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before the study started, the participants visited their study site. At this visit, the study
doctors checked to make sure they could join the study. The doctors:
• did a physical examination
• took blood and urine samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• measured the size of the participants’ tumors using computerized tomography scans, also
called CT scans, or using magnetic resonance imaging scans, also called MRI scans
• took new tumor samples or asked participants for tumor samples that had already been taken
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what medicines
they were taking
During the study, the participants got study treatment in 4-week periods called “cycles”. The
participants could take part in as many cycles as they wanted unless their cancer got worse or
if they had medical problems that caused them to stop taking study treatment. If their cancer
got worse, the participants stopped the treatment cycles. If the study treatment was helping the
participants’ cancer at the end of the study, the participants could choose to continue treatment.
Throughout the study, the researchers continued checking the participants’ overall health and
tumors. The researchers also gave the participants surveys throughout the study that asked
them how they were feeling.
There were 3 treatment groups in the study: Group 1, Group 2, and Group 3.
The participants in Group 1 got durvalumab and tremelimumab. The participants in Group 2 got
durvalumab alone. The participants in Group 3 got an SOC treatment that was chosen by the
study doctors from a specific list of treatments for managing the participants’ cancer.
Durvalumab and tremelimumab were given through a needle into a vein. This is known as
intravenous treatment, also called IV treatment. The SOC treatment was given as IV treatment or
taken as a tablet or capsule.
There were 13 of the 736 participants who left the study before getting any treatment. These
participants left the study either because they did not meet the study requirements or because
they chose to leave the study for personal reasons.
3