Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew
what treatment the participant got.
The participants in Group 1 had not gotten any treatment for their metastatic pancreatic
cancer before the study started. They got 2 cancer drugs during the study, called
nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine, as well as durvalumab.
The participants in Group 2 had tried 1 treatment for their metastatic pancreatic cancer
before the study started, but it did not help them. They got durvalumab and another
drug called AZD5069, which is being developed to treat cancer.
What happened during the study?
Before treatment, the study doctors used a computed tomography scan, also called
a CT scan, and magnetic resonance imaging, also called an MRI, to scan participants’
tumors. They also:
• did physical examinations and checked participants’ vital signs
• took blood and urine samples
• checked participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• measured the size of participants’ tumors
• took tissue samples from the tumors
During treatment, the participants got study treatment in 4-week periods called
“cycles”. The participants could take part in as many treatment cycles as they wanted,
unless their cancer got worse. If their cancer got worse, the participants stopped the
treatment cycles. If the study treatment was helping the participants’ cancer at the end
of the study, the participants could choose to continue treatment.
There were 3 participants in Group 1. They got nab-paclitaxel, gemcitabine, and
durvalumab. Nab-paclitaxel and gemcitabine were given through a needle under the
skin. This is known as intravenous treatment, also called IV treatment. Durvalumab
was given as an infusion through a needle under the skin, also called an IV infusion.
An IV infusion is similar to an IV treatment, but an infusion gets medicine into the body
more slowly and more steadily, and can be done at home.
There were 20 participants in Group 2. They got durvalumab and AZD5069.
Durvalumab was given through an IV infusion. AZD5069 was taken as a pill by mouth.
3