Clinical Study Results
Hazard ratio
For the hazard ratio, the researchers found that the participants who got durvalumab and
tremelimumab together were 5.0% more likely to have their cancer get worse during the study
compared to the participants who got SOC treatment. But, the researchers did not consider this
5.0% difference between the 2 groups to be statistically significant.
How long participants lived before their cancer got worse
To find out how long the participants lived before their cancer got worse, the doctors measured
the change in tumor size throughout the study by using MRI and CT scans and taking pictures of
the tumors. The doctors measured the change in tumor size using a set of rules called Response
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, also called RECIST. They also used these and other tests
and measurements to determine how long the participants lived before their cancer got worse.
Then, they compared these results from the participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab
together with the results from the participants who got SOC treatment using a median.
The researchers found that:
• The participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together lived a median of about
3.9 months before their cancer got worse.
• The participants who got SOC treatment lived a median of about 5.4 months before their
cancer got worse.
Percentage of participants likely to be alive without their cancer getting worse
1 year after starting treatment
The researchers found that the participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together
were more likely to be alive 1 year after starting treatment compared to the participants who got
SOC treatment. But, the difference between the 2 groups was too small for the researchers to
think that durvalumab and tremelimumab given together increased the chance of participants
being alive 1 year after starting treatment without their cancer getting worse.
The researchers found that:
• 25.8% of the participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together were likely to be
alive 1 year after starting treatment without their cancer getting worse.
• 14.3% of the participants who got SOC treatment were likely to be alive 1 year after starting
treatment without their cancer getting worse.
10