Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients who have advanced or metastatic non-
small-cell lung cancer. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical
studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
Cancer is a disease that happens when the body cannot control the growth of cells. Many of
these extra cells can form tumors, which can start in any part of the body. “Advanced” means that
the tumor is unlikely to be removed completely by surgery. “Metastatic” means that the cancer
has spread to other parts of the body to form new tumors, called metastases. “Non-small cell
cancer”, the most common type of lung cancer, means that the cancer cells are large compared
to another common type of lung cancer.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if durvalumab and tremelimumab work as
treatments for a large number of participants who have advanced or metastatic non-small-cell
lung cancer. They also wanted to find out if the participants had any medical problems with these
treatments during the study.
There are treatments for advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. But these
treatments may not stop cancer cells from growing or spreading. They may also cause other
medical problems. This is because these treatments sometimes attack healthy cells in addition
to cancer cells. Researchers think that durvalumab and tremelimumab may be able to help the
body’s immune system attack only the cancer cells.
In this study, researchers compared durvalumab and tremelimumab to a non-small-cell lung
cancer treatment known as a “standard of care” treatment, or SOC treatment. A treatment is
considered an SOC treatment if the medical community thinks it is an appropriate and widely
used treatment for a disease.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants who got durvalumab alone live longer compared to the participants who
got SOC treatment?
• Did the participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together live longer compared to
the participants who got SOC treatment?
• Did the participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together live longer without their
cancer getting worse compared to the participants who got SOC treatment?
• Did the participants’ cancer symptoms and overall health change after getting durvalumab
alone or durvalumab and tremelimumab together compared to SOC treatment?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and women who
had advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer. The participants in this study were 28 to
87 years old.
2