Clinical Study Results
Did the participants’ cancer symptoms and overall health change after getting
durvalumab alone or durvalumab and tremelimumab together compared to SOC
treatment?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that the participants who got durvalumab alone or
durvalumab and tremelimumab together had a change in their symptoms or overall health
compared to the participants who got SOC treatment.
To answer this question, the doctors gave the participants surveys before they got any study
treatment and throughout the study. These surveys asked the participants about their cancer
symptoms and how they were feeling. The researchers compared the results from before the first
study treatment with the results from the study treatment visits to see if there were changes.
The researchers found that compared to the participants who got SOC treatment:
• The participants who got durvalumab alone had fewer overall cancer symptoms over time.
• The participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together had fewer overall cancer
symptoms over time.
• The participants who got durvalumab alone had a longer time until their cancer symptoms
got worse.
• The participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together had a longer time until their
cancer symptoms got worse.
• The participants who got durvalumab alone were more likely to have an increase in appetite
and a decrease in nausea, vomiting, diarrhea, and feeling tired. They showed an improved
ability to engage in social activities and create or maintain relationships with other people.
• The participants who got durvalumab and tremelimumab together were less likely to feel tired.
They showed an improved ability to perform everyday tasks, engage in social activities, and
create or maintain relationships with other people.
What medical problems did the participants have
during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments. These medical problems are
called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life threatening,
causes lasting problems, requires hospital care, or leads to death.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatments. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
Out of the 1,118 participants in the study, 1,092 participants got at least 1 dose of study
treatment. So, the results below include information for only 1,092 of the 1,118 participants.
11