Clinical Study Results
During the study, the participants could take part in as many cycles as they wanted unless
their cancer got worse. If their cancer got worse, the participants stopped the treatment cycles. If
the study treatment was helping the participants’ cancer at the end of the study, the participants
could choose to continue treatment.
All of the participants visited their study site 1 time during each cycle and got their treatment 1
time at each visit.
At the end of the study, the participants visited their study site 1 time each month for 4
months. Then, they visited their study site 1 time every 2 months until the study ended. At these
visits, the study doctors gave the participants surveys and did tests and measurements to check
their overall health.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted
to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the
study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
At the time this summary was written, the study was still ongoing. The results presented below
were collected from August 2015 to October 2018.
Some tumors have features that allow the immune system to strongly attack cancer cells when
patients are given treatments like durvalumab and tremelimumab. So, the researchers in this
study first focused on the results for the 488 participants whose tumors had these features. The
results for these 488 participants are summarized below.
Did the participants who got durvalumab alone live longer compared to the
participants who got SOC treatment?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that the participants who got durvalumab alone lived longer
after getting treatment than the participants who got SOC treatment.
To answer this question, the researchers compared:
• the “hazard ratio” between the 2 groups
• how likely it was that the participants would be alive 2 years after starting the study
• how long the participants lived after starting the study
To compare some of the study results, the researchers determined if the differences between
the results were “statistically significant”. If the difference between 2 numbers is considered to
be statistically significant, it means the researchers believe that the difference is caused by the
study drug. Researchers define what a statistically significant difference between numbers will be
before the study starts. They choose this difference based on previous research and studies.
5