The EORTC QLQ-C30 questionnaire showed that the participants who got
durvalumab with tremelimumab had less nausea than those who got standard
treatment. There were no differences in the other symptoms, ability to do daily
tasks, or quality of life as measured by this questionnaire in the participants who
got durvalumab alone, durvalumab with tremelimumab, or standard treatment.
The EORTC QLQ-H&N35 questionnaire showed that:
X The participants who got durvalumab with tremelimumab had less mouth
pain than those who got standard treatment.
X The participants who got durvalumab with or without tremelimumab had
fewer problems with their sense of smell and taste than those who got
standard treatment.
X There were no differences in the other symptoms measured by this
questionnaire in the participants who got durvalumab alone, durvalumab with
tremelimumab or standard therapy.
What medical problems happened during this
study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the
study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments.
These medical problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction
is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or
requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatments. A lot
of research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
These adverse reactions have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together
with all of the available data for durvalumab and tremelimumab.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information
about adverse reactions or “adverse events” that happened during this study.
An adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a study.
Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even if they
do not think the adverse events might be related to the study treatment. Adverse
events may or may not be caused by the treatments in the study.
11 | Clinical Study Results