The researchers used several methods to answer this question. First the
researchers used a statistical test called a “hazard ratio”. The hazard ratio shows
how long the participants who got durvalumab survived compared with the
participants who got standard treatment. A hazard ratio of 1.0 means that there is
no difference between the groups in how long the participants survived.
In this study, the hazard ratio was 0.96. This means that the participants who got
durvalumab survived for a similar amount of time as the participants who got
standard treatment.
The researchers also counted how many months the participants lived with their
cancer after getting study treatment. They calculated the median number of
months for each group. A median is the middle number in a set of numbers. It
is between the lowest and highest numbers. In this study, the median shows the
point in time when 50% of participants were still alive in the study.
The median number of months that the participants with PD-L1 high cancer lived
for after starting study treatment was:
X 10.9 months for the participants who got durvalumab alone
X 10.9 months for the participants who got the standard treatment
Did the participants getting durvalumab with or without tremelimumab
have less severe symptoms and improved health-related quality of life?
To answer this question, the study doctors asked the participants to complete 2
different questionnaires. These were:
X The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of
Life Questionnaire – Core 30, also known as EORTC QLQ-C30
X The European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of
Life Questionnaire – Head and Neck 35, also known as EORTC QLQ-H&N35
The researchers gave the participants a “score” based on their answers to
each questionnaire about the severity of their symptoms or quality of life. The
researchers measured how much the participants’ scores changed during the
study. They then compared the scores of the participants who got durvalumab
with or without tremelimumab to those who got standard treatment.
10 | Clinical Study Results