Who took part in the study?
The researchers asked for the help of men and women with ES-SCLC who had
received chemotherapy that was no longer helping their cancer. The participants
in Group 1 of this study were 40 to 76 years old when they joined.
Group 1 included 41 participants in Germany, Hungary, Poland, Spain, and Ukraine.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have ES-SCLC.
Before a drug can be approved for people to get, researchers do clinical studies
to find out how it works and how safe it is.
For Group 1 of this study, the researchers wanted to find out how durvalumab
with tremelimumab worked in a small number of participants with ES-SCLC. If
the drugs worked well, the researchers planned to do a similar study in a larger
number of participants. The participants in this study had already received
chemotherapy that was no longer helping their cancer. The researchers also
wanted to find out what medical problems the participants had during the study.
In people with cancer, the body is not able to control the growth of cells. The extra
cells can form tumors. When cancer reaches the “extensive stage”, tumors can
spread to other parts of the body or grow beyond the organ where they started.
Sometimes there are too many tumors, or they are too difficult to remove by
surgery. This is also called “advanced” cancer.
Normally, the immune system can help stop tumors from growing by recognizing
cancer cells as different from normal cells and then attacking and killing the cancer
cells. But, in people with ES-SCLC, tumor cells can interfere with immune cells.
This may stop the immune cells from recognizing the tumor cells and being able
to attack them.
The study drugs, durvalumab and tremelimumab, were each designed to stop the
tumor cells from interacting with some parts of the immune cells.
For Group 1 of this study, the researchers wanted to find out how well durvalumab
and tremelimumab worked together in these participants.
3 | Clinical Study Results