Why was this research needed?
COVID-19 is an infectious disease caused by a type of coronavirus called
“SARS-CoV-2”, also called severe acute respiratory syndrome coronavirus 2. The
global COVID-19 pandemic is having a widespread effect on people’s health.
COVID-19 has been shown to cause more severe illness in older people than in
younger people and more severe illness in those with certain medical problems
such as obesity, heart disease, and severe lung disease.
The body’s natural defenses are known as the immune system. There are a number
of ways in which the immune system fights infections. It makes antibodies and cells
called “T cells”, which are specific to a germ that causes an infection. A germ might
be bacteria, a virus, a parasite, or another microorganism. Most vaccines work by
exposing the immune system to a part of a germ or a weakened or dead version of
a germ. This teaches the immune system to recognize that germ and to produce the
specific antibodies and T cells against it without causing illness. In this way, vaccines
stimulate the immune system to produce its own protection against infections. This
means the immune system can quickly stop future infections before illness is caused.
AZD1222 was created by the University of Oxford as a vaccine against the
SARS-CoV-2 virus that causes COVID-19.
Before a vaccine can be approved for use, researchers do clinical trials in humans
to find out how effective and how safe it is. Clinical trials for vaccines need to
have a certain minimum number of infections among the trial participants before
researchers can review the data and then measure how effective the vaccine is at
preventing infection. Trials that are designed this way are known as “event-driven”
trials. The effectiveness of a vaccine or treatment at preventing infection during a
clinical trial is known as “efficacy”.
The World Health Organization (WHO) and the US Food & Drug Administration (FDA)
both set out requirements for COVID-19 vaccines before research began. They stated
that these vaccines would need to be at least 50.0% effective at stopping infections in the
clinical trials. You can find out more about these requirements at the links below:
WHO: https://www.who.int/publications/m/item/who-target-product-profiles-for-covid-
19-vaccines
FDA: https://www.fda.gov/regulatory-information/search-fda-guidance-documents/
development-and-licensure-vaccines-prevent-covid-19
3