Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew
what the participant was taking. All participants in this study got tremelimumab through
a needle into their vein, also called an intravenous infusion.
The study had 2 parts. All participants were in Part 1 of the study for up to 12 months. If
a participant’s cancer got worse during Part 1, they had the option to be in Part 2 for up
to 12 months. This decision was made by the doctor, in discussion with the participant.
It also depended on if certain criteria were met. These options were all discussed with
the participants before they got any treatment.
During Part 1, all 64 participants got up to 9 doses of 750 milligrams, known as “mg”,
of tremelimumab for up to 12 months. The first 7 doses were given once every 4 weeks.
The next 2 doses were given once every 12 weeks.
If a participant’s cancer got worse during or after Part 1, they stopped treatment with
tremelimumab. If eligible, they had the option to go on to Part 2.
During Part 2, eligible participants got either an infusion of 1.5 g durvalumab, or
75 mg tremelimumab and 1.5 g durvalumab, for up to 12 months.
In Part 2:
• 5 participants got durvalumab once every 4 weeks, for up to a total of 13 doses.
• 16 participants got durvalumab and tremelimumab once every 4 weeks, for a total of
4 doses. Then, they got durvalumab once every 4 weeks, for up to a total of 9 doses.
What happened during the study?
Before the participants got any treatment, they visited their study site once. The
doctors or study site staff checked the overall health of the participants to make sure
that they could join the study. The doctors:
• asked questions about the participants’ health
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• reviewed the results of a tumor sample, known as a biopsy, taken before or at the start of
the study
The doctors also took pictures of the participants’ tumors using computed tomography
or magnetic resonance imaging. Computed tomography is also known as “CT”.
Magnetic resonance imaging is also known as “MRI”.
3