Clinical Study Results
The main question the researchers wanted to answer in this study was:
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answer to this question is important to know before other studies can be done that
help find out if MEDI4920 improves the health of people who have RA.
The researchers asked for the help of men and women who have RA. The participants in
the study were 31 to 70 years old when they joined the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double blind” study. This means none of the participants or researchers knew
which treatment the participants got. Some studies are done this way because knowing
what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of the study. When the
study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment each participant got so
they could create a report of the study results.
The participants in this study got MEDI4920 or a placebo. A placebo looks like a drug but
does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of
the effects they see in the participants who take the drug are actually caused by the drug.
MEDI4920 and the placebo were given through a needle into the blood. This is known as
intravenous treatment, also called IV treatment.
The doses of MEDI4920 were measured in milligrams, also called mg.
This was also a “dose escalation” study. This means that the participants who got
MEDI4920 started out getting a low dose. The study doctors carefully looked at the
results for these participants. Then, the researchers decided whether to increase the
dose in the next group of participants. Each participant who got MEDI4920 got only 1
dose amount during the study. Researchers use dose escalation studies to learn about
the safety of a specific dose before participants are given a higher dose.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the group that each participant
was in. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2