Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before getting study treatment, the participants visited their study site 1 time. At this
visit, the study doctors checked the participants’ RA symptoms and did tests to make
sure they could join the study. This visit happened within about 1 month of the treatment
groups being chosen.
During the treatment period, the participants visited their study site 9 times over the
course of about 3 months. There were 5 different treatment groups.
The table below shows the treatments the participants got.
Group 1 75 mg of MEDI4920
(8 participants)
All 57 participants got their study
Group 2 500 mg of MEDI4920
treatment:
(10 participants)
• through an IV
Group 3 1,000 mg of MEDI4920
(12 participants) • once every 2 weeks for up to
about 3 months
Group 4 1,500 mg of MEDI4920
(12 participants)
Group 5 Placebo
(15 participants)
Throughout the treatment period, the study doctors checked the participants’ RA
symptoms and overall health and asked them how they were feeling.
At the end of the study, the participants visited their study site 5 more times over the
course of about 3 months. During these visits, the study doctors checked the participants’
RA symptoms and overall health and asked them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant
had might be different and are not in this summary.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the researchers recorded any medical problems the participants
had during the study. These medical problems are called “adverse events”. An adverse
event is any medical problem that happens during the study. An adverse event is
considered “serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires
hospital care. Adverse events may or may not be caused by the study drug.
3