Clinical Trial RESULTS
In your study, researchers wanted to know:
• Did participants who took ticagrelor have fewer days with pain than
participants who took the placebo?
• Did participants who took ticagrelor have milder pain than participants
who took the placebo?
• Did participants who took ticagrelor use pain-relieving medicine less often
than participants who took the placebo?
• What medical problems did participants have after taking ticagrelor?
In your study, participants were 18 to 30 years old. Out of the 87 participants,
47 (54.0%) were women and 40 (46.0%) were men. For more information about which
participants could join this study, please refer to the website listed on the last page of
this summary.
What kind of study was this?
Your study was a “double-blind” study. This means that none of the participants,
researchers, doctors, or staff knew what treatment each participant took until after
the study ended. Some studies are done this way because knowing what treatment
each participant is taking can affect the results of the study. This way, the results are
looked at fairly.
You and the other participants took either ticagrelor or the placebo. The treatment
that each participant took was decided by chance, like rolling dice. Participants had
an equal chance of taking either 10 milligrams ticagrelor or 45 milligrams ticagrelor
or the placebo.
What happened during the study?
To see if you could join the study, the doctors did a full physical exam, took blood
and urine samples, and checked your heart health. During this time, the doctors also
gave you a diary to write down the times when you had pain. They checked these
diaries during the study.
Treatment lasted 16 weeks. Once you entered the study, you took placebo for the
first four weeks. If you had pain for at least four days during these four weeks, you
were then randomly assigned to take either ticagrelor or continue the placebo for
12 weeks. Each participant took study tablets twice a day, no matter what the dose
or medicine was.
Two weeks after your last study visit, the doctors called you to ask how you were
feeling and if you took any new medicines.
3