What medical problems happened during
this study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the
study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. These
medical problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
Because osimertinib is already available for people with certain types of NSCLC,
the researchers in this study did not require information on all adverse reactions to
be collected. For the adverse reactions that were not serious, the researchers only
wanted to learn if the participants had specific adverse reactions. In this summary,
these are called “adverse reactions of special interest”.
This section is a summary of these adverse reactions of special interest, as well as
any serious adverse reactions that the study doctors thought might be related to
the study drug.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. These
adverse reactions have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of
the available data for osimertinib.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about
adverse reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had adverse reactions of special interest?
X There were 3.0% of participants who had an adverse reaction of special
interest. This was 89 out of 3,014 participants.
How many participants had any serious adverse reaction?
X There were 3.2% of participants who had any serious adverse reaction. This
was 95 out of 3,014 participants.
How many participants stopped taking study treatment due to adverse reactions
of special interest?
X There were 0.6% of participants who stopped taking treatment due to adverse
reactions of special interest. This was 18 out of 3,014 participants.
8 | Clinical Study Results