Clinical Trial Results
What has happened since my study ended?
Your study started in August 2015 and ended in July 2016. It included 113 participants
at 26 study sites in Australia, Canada, Germany, Hungary, New Zealand, and the United
States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report of
the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be approved, research must be done to show that it is safe and
effective. The study drug, MEDI9929, is being developed to treat atopic dermatitis,
or AD. AD, also known as eczema, is a skin disease that can cause itchy, red, swollen,
and cracked skin. Currently, there is no cure for AD. Prescription drugs can relieve the
symptoms of AD but cannot cure AD.
Another treatment for AD is skin creams that contains steroids. But, these creams do not
always treat the symptoms of AD in patients. These creams can also cause side effects
like blotchy skin, increased risk of skin infections, and weaker bones.
Researchers have found that people with AD have higher levels of a protein called
thymic stromal lymphopoietin, or TSLP. The study drug, MEDI9929, is a type of antibody
that blocks TSLP. In the body, antibodies are normally made by the immune system to
fight off infection.
Researchers can use antibodies as medications to treat different diseases, including AD.
In this study, researchers compared MEDI9929 to a placebo. A placebo looks like the
study drug but contains no real medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo in some studies
so that they can compare the results of participants who take study drugs to the results
of participants who take no medicine at all.
Researchers wanted to know:
• Did participants who got MEDI9929 have less severe AD after 12 weeks
of treatment than participants who got a placebo?
• How did MEDI9929 act in the body?
• Did the immune system of participants make antibodies against MEDI9929
in the blood?
• What medical problems did participants have after getting MEDI9929?
2