Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to prevent serious lung infections caused by
RSV in infants who are born prematurely. Before a drug can be approved for patients to
take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
A virus called respiratory syncytial virus causes respiratory infections in children. In older
children and adults, RSV usually causes symptoms similar to the common cold. But
in infants and young children, it can cause serious lung infections. These illnesses are
called lower respiratory tract infections, also known as LRTIs. Infants born prematurely
have a high risk of getting RSV, but all infants can get RSV. The highest risk is during the
fall and winter months.
Children at high risk of these lung infections caused by RSV include infants born
prematurely, children with chronic lung disease of prematurity, or congenital heart
disease. There is a medicine currently used to prevent the lung infections caused by RSV
in high risk children. This medicine must be given to infants monthly through the fall and
winter months, known as the RSV season. The study drug, MEDI8897, would only need
to be given 1 time a year for the entire RSV season. It would also be available for all
infants, including those born at full term.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how MEDI8897 worked in a large number
of prematurely born infants. They also wanted to find out if the infants developed any
medical problems during the study.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the infants who got MEDI8897 have a lower risk for getting a LRTI caused by RSV?
• What medical problems did the infants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked parents and caregivers for
the help of healthy infants who were born prematurely. The infants in this study were
between a few weeks of age to almost 1 year old and had not been given any other
treatment related to RSV.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the caregivers, doctors or other
study staff knew what study drug each infant received. Some studies are done this way
because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of the
study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment infants got
so they could create a report of the study results.
2