Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people with advanced breast or stomach cancers
who have a protein called “human epidermal growth factor receptor 2” on their tumor. This protein
is also called HER2 receptor.
HER2 is found on the surface of a cancer cell and causes the cancer to grow quickly. There are
some treatments for this type of cancer, but they do not help all patients.
MEDI4276 is thought to attach to the HER2 receptor, causing the cells in the tumor to die.
Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how
safe it is and how it works. In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about the safety of
MEDI4276 and if it worked in participants with the HER2 receptor.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did MEDI4276 affect the participants’ overall health?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and women with
breast or stomach cancer who had a HER2 receptor. The participants were 39 to 76 years old
when they joined. All the participants had advanced breast or stomach cancer that could not be
surgically removed.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew what the
participant was taking. All of the participants in this study got MEDI4276 through a needle into
their vein, also called intravenous infusion. The researchers wanted to learn how different doses
of MEDI4276 affected the participants. They originally planned that the study would have 2 parts.
But, the researchers ended the study early because MEDI4276 was not shrinking the participants’
tumors and the results of the first part were not as expected.
There were 9 different groups of participants in this study. The dose of MEDI4276 was different
in each group. It was measured in milligrams per kilogram of body weight, also known as
mg/kg. The study doctors studied how the dose affected the participants in each group, before
giving MEDI4276 to the next group of participants.
2