Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study. The individual results each participant had
might be different and are not presented in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
Did MEDI4276 affect the participants’ overall health?
To answer this question, the researchers compared the results of the tests and measurements
that the study doctors took before, during, and after the study. The researchers also collected
information about how many “adverse events” the participants had. An adverse event is any
medical problem that happens during the study. Adverse events are considered “serious” when
they are life-threatening, cause lasting problems, or require hospital care. Adverse events may
or may not be caused by the study drug.
The study doctors also counted the number of dose-limiting toxicities the participants had
during the study. A dose-limiting toxicity is a medical problem that is severe enough to stop the
study doctor from increasing the participant’s dose of study treatment. A dose-limiting toxicity is
also known as a DLT.
In Group 5, 16.7% of participants had a dose-limiting toxicity reaction. This was 1 out of 6
participants who received the 0.4 mg/kg dose of MEDI4276.
In Group 7, 9.1% of participants had a dose-limiting toxicity reaction. This was 1 out of 11
participants who received the 0.6 mg/kg dose of MEDI4276.
In Group 9, 66.7% of participants had a dose-limiting toxicity reaction. This was 2 out of 3
participants who received the 0.9 mg/kg dose of MEDI4276.
Overall, the researchers found that the health of the participants during the study was the
same in each group. There were small differences in the safety results of each group. But, the
differences were too small for the researchers to know if MEDI4276 affected these results.
How many participants had adverse events?
There were 97.9% of participants who had at least 1 adverse event during the study. This was
46 out of 47 participants.
There were 29.8% of participants with at least 1 serious adverse event during the study. This was
14 out of 47 participants.
5