Clinical Trial Results
You and the other participants got MEDI6012 or a placebo. Which treatment participants
got was decided by chance, like rolling dice. For every 3 participants who got MEDI6012,
1 participant got a placebo.
Your study included 48 men and women with CAD who were 48 to 74 years old.
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to about 2 months or longer
if needed.
To see if you could join the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking
your height, weight, and temperature. Study doctors took blood and urine samples and
checked your heart health using an electrocardiogram, or ECG. Study doctors also asked
about your medical history, how you were feeling, and what medicines you were taking.
If you are female, you had a blood test to make sure you were not pregnant.
All of the participants visited their study site at least 3 or 4 times.
The first visit was a screening visit to see if the participants could join the study.
The second visit was the treatment visit, in which participants got MEDI6012 or a
placebo. During the second visit, researchers checked to see if the immune systems
of participants made antibodies against MEDI6012 in the blood.
Antibodies are normally made by the immune system of the body to fight off infection.
If antibodies against MEDI6012 form, the drug may not work as well, or it may cause an
allergic reaction to the drug. One or both of these reactions could happen, or neither of
these reactions could happen.
At the end of the study, all participants returned to their study site for a fifth visit.
This was a follow-up visit about 1 month after the treatment visit. Study doctors
again checked to see if the immune systems of participants made antibodies against
MEDI6012 in the blood.
If the immune systems of participants made antibodies against MEDI6012, then these
participants returned to the study site about 1 month after the follow-up visit for another
visit. This visit was so that study doctors could check if these antibodies had affected the
health of these participants.
There were 7 treatments in this study, but all of the participants got only 1 of these 7
treatments. They got an IV treatment of MEDI6012, an injection treatment of MEDI6012
under the skin, or a placebo. An IV treatment is a treatment given in a vein through a
needle. The 7 treatments in this study are listed on the next page.
3