Clinical Study Results
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women with cardiovascular disease caused by atherosclerosis. The participants had a
history of heart and blood vessel problems because of their atherosclerosis. Participants
could join the study if their cardiovascular disease had been considered stable for at
least 3 months. This means that during that time, participants had not experienced major
medical problems caused by their cardiovascular disease such as a heart attack or
stroke. The participants in this study were 61 to 76 years old. All of the participants were
already taking a drug to lower their cholesterol.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means that none of the participants, doctors, or other
study staff who worked with the participants knew what treatment each participant received.
The participants got either MEDI6012 or a placebo. A placebo looks like a drug but
does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any
effects they see in the participants who take the study drug are actually caused by the
study drug.
All the participants got MEDI6012 or a placebo through a needle placed in their vein. This
is a process known as an intravenous infusion, also known as an IV.
A computer program was used to randomly choose whether the participants got MEDI6012
or a placebo. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so
that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before the study started, all the participants agreed to join. Then the doctors checked
to make sure the participants were healthy enough to join the study. The doctors:
• did a physical examination
• took blood and urine samples
• checked their blood pressure, pulse, and temperature
• checked the heart health of the participants using an electrocardiogram, also known
as an ECG
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what
medicines they were taking
3