Clinical Study Results
The chart below shows how the study was done.
Before getting During the After the last After the
treatment study dose of AZD1775 study
The doctors: The participants: • The participants visited the • Participants who were
• checked to make sure the • took AZD1775 and a study site 30 days later benefitting from AZD1775
participants could join the chemotherapy treatment • Doctors checked their health could keep taking it
study • had 3 study visits in each and did CT or MRI scans • They are being treated by
• took blood and urine samples cycle • If the participants’ cancer had their usual doctor
• did CT or MRI scans The doctors: not gotten worse, but they
stopped taking AZD1775 for
• took blood and urine another reason, they visited
samples their study site every 8 weeks
• did CT or MRI scans for CT or MRI scans
• If the participants’ cancer got
worse, the doctor called
Up to 19 months them every 12 weeks to
check their health
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted to
answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study
results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
How many participants had their tumors shrink or disappear?
The researchers wanted to know how many participants had their tumors shrink significantly or
disappear completely after getting AZD1775 and chemotherapy. To answer this question, they
measured the size of the participants’ tumors throughout the study. They did this using CT or
MRI scans, and a measurement called Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, also called
RECIST.
The researchers found that overall, 31.9% of patients had their tumors shrink significantly or
disappear after getting AZD1775 and chemotherapy. This was 30 out of 94 participants. The number
of participants whose tumors shrank significantly or disappeared was:
• 11.1% in Group 1. This was 1 out of 9 participants.
• 28.9% in Group 2. This was 11 out of 38 participants.
• 30.4% in Group 3. This was 7 out of 23 participants.
• 66.7% in Group 4. This was 8 out of 12 participants.
• 33.3% in Group 5. This was 2 out of 6 participants.
• 16.7% in Group 6. This was 1 out of 6 participants.
5