Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before the participants got any study treatment, the doctors checked the overall health
of the participants to make sure that they could join the study. The doctors took blood and urine
samples and took pictures of the participants’ tumors using computerized tomography, also
called CT scans, or magnetic resonance imaging, also called MRI scans.
During the study, the participants in all groups visited their study site 3 times in each treatment
cycle. At every visit, the doctors took blood samples and asked the participants what medical
problems they had.
At the start of each new cycle, the doctors checked the participants’ overall health and took blood
and urine samples. After every 2 cycles, the doctors took a picture of the participants’ tumors
using CT or MRI scans.
The main reasons that participants stopped taking AZD1775 and chemotherapy were if:
• their cancer got worse
• they had a medical problem that the doctors thought might be caused by AZD1775 and it
would be dangerous for them to stay on treatment
• they wanted to leave the study or their doctor thought they should stop getting AZD1775
30 days after taking the last dose of AZ1775, the participants visited their study site. At this
visit, the doctors checked their health and did CT or MRI scans. If a participant’s cancer had not
gotten worse during the study but they stopped taking AZD1775 for another reason, they visited
the study site every 8 weeks. At these visits, the doctors did CT or MRI scans. The participants
continued these visits until their cancer got worse or until the study ended.
If a participant’s cancer got worse while they were taking study treatment or after their last
dose, the doctors contacted the participant every 3 months to check their health. This could
either be in person at a clinic or by phone. If the participant died, the doctor recorded when and
how they died.
If a participant benefitted from AZD1775, they could keep taking it after the study ended and are
being monitored by their doctor.
4