Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for better ways to treat patients with advanced solid tumors.
Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to
find out if it works and how safe it is.
A solid tumor is a type of cancer that can form in different organs in the body.
“Advanced” means that the cancer is unlikely to be cured, and the cancer cells may
have spread to other parts of the body.
Many cancer treatments are designed to directly stop cancer cells from growing. The
study drug, AZD1775, is being developed to stop an enzyme in the body from working.
An enzyme is a substance produced by the body that helps control bodily functions and
activities. AZD1775 is being developed to target an enzyme that helps with the growth
of both normal and cancer cells. Researchers think that stopping this enzyme from
working may also help stop cancer cells from growing.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how AZD1775 works in patients with
advanced solid tumors. They also wanted to find out if the participants had any medical
problems during the study.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did AZD1775 affect participants’ tumors?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women who had advanced solid tumors and had received cancer treatment. The
participants in the study were 28 to 83 years old when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew
what the participant was taking.
All of the participants took AZD1775 in pill form by mouth. The treatment doses were
measured in milligrams, also called mg.
The participants took AZD1775 during treatment periods called “cycles”. Each
participant could take part in as many treatment cycles as they wanted as long as
their cancer did not get worse. If their cancer got worse, the participant stopped the
treatment cycles. Each cycle lasted 3 weeks.
2