Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always
talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
A full list of the questions researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites
listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can
also be found on these websites.
At the beginning of the study, the researchers determined that they could not accurately
measure the tumors for 2 of the participants. So, some of the results below are for 90 of
the 92 participants.
How did AZD1775 affect participants’ tumors?
In this study, some of the participants had their tumors shrink or stay the same. But, the
researchers could not determine if AZD1775 helped stop the tumors from growing. This
was because the number of participants in the study was too small for the researchers
to determine if AZD1775 helped control the participants’ tumors.
To answer this question, the researchers measured:
• the number of participants who had their tumors shrink or stay the same
• the number of participants who had their tumors shrink by a large amount
• how long it took for participants’ tumors to grow after taking their first AZD1775 dose
The researchers considered a tumor to have shrunk by a large amount if it shrank by
at least 30.0%. The researchers considered a tumor to have grown if it grew by at
least 20.0%.
Overall, the researchers found that:
• 65.2% of participants had their tumors shrink or stay the same during the study. This
was 60 out of 92 participants.
• 4.4% of participants had their tumors shrink by at least 30.0% during the study. This
was 4 out of 90 participants.
• It took from 2.6 months to 4.1 months for participants’ tumors to grow by at least
20.0% after taking their first AZD1775 dose.
4