Clinical Study Results
A solid tumor is a type of cancer that can form in different organs in the body.
Many cancer treatments are designed to directly stop cancer cells from growing.
The study drug, AZD1775, is being developed to stop an enzyme in the body
from working. An enzyme is a substance produced by the body that helps control
bodily functions and activities. AZD1775 is being developed to target an enzyme
that helps with the growth of both normal and cancer cells. Researchers think
that stopping this enzyme from working may help stop cancer cells from growing.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find the “maximum tolerated dose”
for AZD1775. The maximum tolerated dose is the highest dose of a drug that
doesn’t cause “dose-limiting toxicities”, also called DLTs, in patients. A DLT is a
medical problem that is severe enough to stop the researcher from increasing
a participant’s study drug dose. The researchers also wanted to find out how
often participants could take the maximum tolerated dose for AZD1775 without
developing DLTs.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• What was the maximum tolerated dose of AZD1775 for the participants?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women who had solid tumors and had received cancer treatment. The participants in
the study were 26 to 91 years old when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant
knew what the participant was taking.
All of the participants took AZD1775 in pill form by mouth. The AZD1775 doses
were measured in milligrams, also called mg.
This was also a “dose-escalation” study. This means that each group got only
1 dose amount of AZD1775 during the study. Different groups of participants
were given different doses of AZD1775. The researchers carefully studied the
results from each group before deciding whether or not to give the next higher
dose to the next group of participants.
2