Clinical Study Results
The answer to this question is important to know before other studies can be done
that help find out if MEDI7734 improves the health of people with immune system
diseases. The researchers asked for the help of men and women with certain types
of immune system diseases. Everyone in the study was between 31 and 63 years
of age when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew what treatment each participant got. Some studies are done
this way because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect the
results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which
treatment participants got so they could create a report of the study results.
The participants in this study got either MEDI7734 or a placebo by an injection
under the skin. A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it.
Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the
participants who get the drug are actually caused by the drug.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
got. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before the study started, the doctors:
• did a physical examination
• checked the heart health of the participants using an electrocardiogram, also
known as an ECG
• took blood and urine samples
• asked about the medical history of the participants, how they were feeling, and
what medicines they were taking
At the start of the study, the participants visited their study site once to get the
study drug. During this visit, the participants got 1 injection of either:
• MEDI7734, in 1 of 5 different doses
• a placebo
During the study, the participants visited their study site up to 7 more times for
follow-up examinations. During these visits, the doctors checked the health of the
participants again and asked how they were feeling and what medications they
were taking.
2