Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients with type 2 diabetes and high
amounts of bad cholesterol. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers
do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if the participants had any medical problems
during the study that might be related to MEDI4166. They also wanted to find out how
MEDI4166 affected the blood sugar levels and the amount of bad cholesterol in participants.
The study drug, MEDI4166, is being developed to treat type 2 diabetes and high amounts
of bad cholesterol. Type 2 diabetes is a disease in which the body does not make enough
insulin or can’t use insulin normally. Insulin is produced by the body and normally keeps
the amount of sugar, or glucose, in the blood at healthy levels. When insulin doesn’t work
correctly or if there isn’t enough, blood sugar in the body becomes too high. People with
type 2 diabetes also often have a high amount of bad cholesterol. MEDI4166 is a new drug
that helps the body to reduce the blood sugar levels and the amount of bad cholesterol.
The main questions researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did MEDI4166 affect the amount of bad cholesterol in participants?
• How did MEDI4166 affect the blood sugar levels in participants?
• What medical problems did participants have after getting MEDI4166?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was a “double-blind” study. This means that none of the participants, researchers,
or staff knew what treatment each participant got. Some studies are done this way because
knowing what treatment each participant is getting can affect the results of the study. This
way, the results are looked at fairly.
In both Part A and Part B of the study, you and the other participants got MEDI4166 or a
placebo. A placebo looks like the study drug but contains no real medicine. Researchers use
a placebo so that they can compare the results of participants who get study drugs with the
results of participants who get no medicine at all. MEDI4166 and the placebo in this study
were given in the form of an injection. Which treatment participants got was decided by
chance, like rolling dice.
For every 1 participant who got the placebo in Part A, 3 participants got MEDI4166.
For every 1 participant who got the placebo in Part B, about 4 participants got MEDI4166.
Your study included 103 men and women with type 2 diabetes who were 42 to 65 years old.
What happened during the study?
This study had 2 parts: Part A and Part B. If you were in 1 part of the study, you could not be
in the other part of the study.
To see if you could join the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking
your height, weight, blood pressure, pulse, and temperature. Study doctors took blood
and urine samples and checked your heart health using an electrocardiogram, or ECG.
Study doctors also asked about your medical history, how you were feeling, and what
medicines you were taking.
2