Clinical Study Results
What is important to know about these results?
In this study, researchers learned how MEDI4166 affected the blood sugar and bad
cholesterol levels in participants. Further clinical studies with MEDI4166 are not planned.
Where can I learn more about the study?
You can find more information about this study on the website listed below.
• www.clinicaltrials.gov. Once you are on the website, type NCT02524782 into the search
box called “Other Terms”. Then, click “Search all studies”.
If you have questions about the results, please speak with the doctor, research nurse, or
other team member at your clinic or hospital. Please also refer to the informed consent form
you signed before joining this study for more details about your study.
The full title of your study is: A Phase 1, Combined Single- and Multiple-ascending Dose
Study to Evaluate the Safety, Tolerability, Pharmacokinetics, and Pharmacodynamics of
MEDI4166 in Subjects with Type 2 Diabetes Mellitus
The protocol number of your study is: D6240C00001
MedImmune, LLC is a member of the AstraZeneca Group of companies. MedImmune, LLC
sponsored this study and has its headquarters at 1800 Concord Pike, Wilmington, DE 19850.
The phone number for the AstraZeneca Information Center is 1-877-240-9479.
Thank you
Clinical trial participants belong to a large community of people who take part in clinical
research around the world. They help researchers answer important health questions
and find medical treatments for patients. It takes participants in many studies all around
the world to advance medical science.
The Center for Information & Study on Clinical Research Participation (CISCRP) is
a non-profit organization focused on educating and informing the public about
clinical research participation. CISCRP is not involved in recruiting participants for
clinical trials, nor is it involved in conducting clinical trials.
CISCRP
One Liberty Square, Suite 510 • Boston, MA 02109
1-877-MED-HERO • www.ciscrp.org
8