Clinical Trial RESULTS
WHAT’S HAPPENED SINCE MY STUDY ENDED?
This study started in September 2015 and ended in November 2015. It included 23
participants at 1 study site in the United Kingdom. When the study ended, the sponsor
reviewed the data and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
WHY WAS THE RESEARCH NEEDED?
Before a new medicine can be approved, research studies must be done to show that
it is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new medicine is to test it in healthy
volunteers, before testing it in people with the disease the medicine will treat.
Researchers in this study tested a drug called AZD9977 as a possible treatment for
chronic kidney disease. Chronic kidney disease can cause an imbalance in the amount
of sodium and potassium in urine, which can make people very sick. Researchers
wanted to know how AZD9977 affected the amount of sodium and potassium
in urine.
To study how AZD9977 works, researchers compared it to another drug called
eplerenone. Eplerenone is used to treat heart failure. Researchers wanted to know
if AZD9977 affects the kidneys in the same way as eplerenone. They also compared
AZD9977 and eplerenone to a placebo. A placebo looks like a real drug but doesn’t
have any medicine in it.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did AZD9977 alone affect the amount of sodium and potassium in the
urine compared to AZD9977 and eplerenone together?
• How did AZD9977 alone affect the passing of sodium and potassium in
the urine and the amount of urine produced compared to AZD9977 and
eplerenone together or to a placebo?
• How did AZD9977 and eplerenone act in the body?
• What medical problems did participants have?
This study had 23 healthy men between the ages of 22 and 50 years.
WHAT KIND OF STUDY WAS THIS?
This was a “single-blind” study. “Single-blind” means that researchers knew what
participants were taking but the participants did not know. All participants took
AZD9977, eplerenone, a placebo, and a drug called fludrocortisone. Fludrocortisone
affects how sodium and potassium are passed out of the body through urine.
Researchers used this drug to make sure all participants passed the same amount
of sodium and potassium in their urine before they took AZD9977, eplerenone, and/
or a placebo.
2