Clinical Trial RESULTS
WHAT HAPPENED DURING THE STUDY?
Before starting this study, study doctors asked about each participant’s medical
history, did a physical exam and other tests, and took blood and urine samples to make
sure each participant could participate.
During the study, the study doctors and staff did an exam and other tests, and took
blood and urine samples.
There were 4 different treatments in the study:
• Fludrocortisone and a placebo
• Fludrocortisone and AZD9977
• Fludrocortisone, eplerenone, and a placebo
• Fludrocortisone, eplerenone, and AZD9977
In each treatment, participants got 5 doses of fludrocortisone and a single dose each
of placebo, AZD9977, or eplerenone.
During each treatment, the participants took 200 milligrams (mg) of AZD9977, 100 mg
of eplerenone, and up to 1.0 mg of fludrocortisone.
All of the participants got all 4 treatments. The order of the treatments was assigned
by chance, like the tossing of a coin. Each treatment lasted 3 or 4 days. Each participant
stopped taking a treatment for at least 7 days before starting the next treatment.
After the last treatment, participants had a final visit 5 to 7 days later so researchers
could check their health. Each participant was in the study for about 2 months.
WHAT WERE THE STUDY RESULTS?
Below is a summary of the results of some of the questions researchers asked during
this study. It is important to know that researchers look at the results of many studies
to decide which medicines work best and are safest for patients. Further clinical studies
with AZD9977 are not currently planned.
How did AZD9977 alone affect the amount of sodium and potassium in the
urine compared to AZD9977 and eplerenone together?
To see how eplerenone and AZD9977 affected sodium and potassium in the urine,
researchers measured the amount of sodium and potassium in the participant’s urine
before and after treatment.
In order to find the difference between sodium and potassium, researchers used a
mathematical formula called a logarithm to measure the difference between sodium
and potassium in the urine. A difference larger than zero means there was more sodium
than potassium in the urine. A difference smaller than zero means there was more
potassium than sodium in the urine.
3