Clinical Trial RESULTS
What has happened since my study ended?
Your study started in November 2015 and ended in September 2016. It included 72
participants at 1 study site in Germany. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed
the data and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be approved, research must be done to show that it is safe and
effective. The first step in studying a new drug is to test it in healthy people, or in people
without any serious health problems.
The study drug, AZD9567, is being developed to treat inflammatory diseases like RA. RA can
affect the joints, causing swelling, pain, and stiffness.
Researchers wanted to see how AZD9567 acted in the body and if it caused any medical
problems. In the study, researchers compared AZD9567 to a placebo and a steroid. A placebo
looks like the study drug but contains no real medicine in it. The type of steroid used in this
study is a medicine that is commonly used to treat inflammatory diseases like RA. Steroids,
however, can have negative effects on the body’s sugar levels and cause them to increase.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did AZD9567 act in the body?
• How did AZD9567 and the steroid each affect participants’ blood sugar levels?
• What medical problems did participants have after getting AZD9567?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was a “single-blind” study. In this study, this means that some study staff knew
what study drug each participant took, but the participants did not. Some studies are done
this way because knowing what treatment each participant is getting can affect the results
of the study. This way, the results are looked at fairly.
In this study, all participants got AZD9567, a steroid, or a placebo. The researchers randomly
separated participants into different treatment groups.
Your study included healthy men who were 19 to 55 years old.
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to 16 weeks.
First, to see if you could join the study, researchers did a physical exam, which included
checking your height, weight, and temperature. They also tested samples of your urine and
blood to check your overall health, and did an electrocardiogram, or ECG, to check your
heart health. Researchers also asked about your medical history, how you were feeling, and
what medicines you were taking.
2