Clinical Study Results
There are treatments available for RA, such as prednisolone, but these treatments
can cause medical problems. So, researchers are looking for new ways to treat RA.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the safety results change in participants who took AZD9567?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be
done that help find out if AZD9567 improves the health of people with RA.
The researchers asked for the help of healthy men and women, as well as
pre-diabetic men and women. Pre-diabetic means that the person has high blood
sugar levels, but the levels are not high enough for that person to be considered
diabetic. The researchers included pre-diabetic participants because they wanted
to learn if the study treatments affected blood sugar levels in the body. Everyone
in the study was 18 to 60 years old when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “single-blind” study. This means the researchers knew what the
participants were taking but the participants did not.
In this study, there were 2 different treatments: the study drug AZD9567 and a
drug called prednisolone. The participants in this study took either prednisolone
and a placebo that looked like AZD9567 or AZD9567 and a placebo that looked
like prednisolone. A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in
it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the
participants who take the drug are actually caused by the drug.
Prednisolone and the placebo that looked like it were taken in pill form by mouth.
AZD9567 and the placebo that looked like it were taken in liquid form by mouth.
Each treatment dose was measured in milligrams, also called mg.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
took. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so
that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2