Clinical trial results
Researchers found that the increase in the amount of air that participants
could exhale was largest after they got the 2.5 μg treatments in both types
of inhaler. This increase was similar between these 2 inhalers.
How did abediterol act in the body?
Researchers wanted to know how the study drug acted in the body. They also
wanted to compare the results between the 2 inhalers. So for both inhalers,
they measured:
• The average amount of abediterol in the blood
• The highest amount of abediterol in the blood
• How long it took for abediterol to reach its highest amount in the blood
Researchers found that the 0.05 μg and 0.156 μg treatments were too low
to be measured in the blood for both types of inhalers.
Researchers found that the average amount of abediterol in the blood was
largest when participants got the 2.5 μg inhaler treatments in both types
of inhaler. These average amounts were similar between these 2 inhalers.
Researchers found that the highest amount of abediterol in the blood was
largest when participants got the 2.5 μg inhaler treatments in both types
of inhaler. These highest amounts were similar between these 2 inhalers.
It took a similar amount of time for abediterol to reach its highest amount in the
blood when participants got the 2.5 μg treatments in both types of inhaler. It
took about 30 minutes for this to happen for both of these inhaler treatments.
How much of abediterol reached the blood?
Researchers found that there was no significant difference in how much
of the study drug reached the blood in participants who got the 2.5 μg
treatments in both types of inhaler.
What medical problems did participants have during
the study?
A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes a medical
problem. So, when new drugs are studied, researchers keep track of all the
medical problems that participants have during the study. These medical
problems are called “adverse events”. They may or may not be caused by the
study drug.
5