Clinical Trial Results
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in June 2016 and ended in December 2016. The study included 132 participants
at 21 study sites in the United States. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and
created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be approved, research must be done to show that it is safe and effective.
The study drug, formoterol, has been approved to treat chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, also
known as COPD, and asthma. These illnesses can cause inflammation, or swelling, in the lungs. This
swelling can sometimes make breathing difficult. Formoterol is used to reduce swelling in the lungs,
making it easier to breathe.
In this study, researchers compared different doses of formoterol given in an inhaler to different
doses of formoterol given in a different type of device, and to a placebo. A placebo looks like the
study drug but contains no real medicine. Researchers use a placebo so that they can compare
the results of participants who take study drugs to the results of participants who take no
medicine at all.
Although the inhaler is approved for use in Europe and the US, formoterol in this type of inhaler
isn’t approved yet for use. The other device, called a nebulizer, is already approved for use in the
United States. The researchers wanted to learn how formoterol affects lung function. They looked at
different doses of formoterol given through an inhaler and a nebulizer. The researchers also wanted
to learn if the different doses were safe to use.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did formoterol in the inhaler affect lung function compared to formoterol in the
nebulizer and to a placebo?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was a “crossover” study. In a crossover study, participants get similar or the same
treatments and tests, but the treatments are given in a random order.
Inhaler doses were taken as “double-blind” treatments. This means that none of the participants,
researchers, or study staff knew when participants took formoterol in the inhaler. Some studies are
done this way because knowing what treatment each participant is taking can affect the results of
the study. This way, the results are looked at fairly.
Nebulizer doses were taken as “open-label” treatments. This means that participants, researchers,
and study staff knew when participants took formoterol in the nebulizer.
Your study included 132 men and women with COPD who were between the ages of 46 and
82 years.
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for up to 14 weeks.
To see if you could join the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking your height,
weight, and blood pressure. Study doctors took blood samples and checked your heart health using
an electrocardiogram, or ECG. Study doctors also checked your lung function and asked about your
medical history, how you were feeling, and what medicines you were taking.
2