Clinical Trial Results
If you are female, you had a blood test to make sure you were not pregnant.
During the study, you visited the study site up to 7 times. You took 1 of 6 treatments during 5 of the
study visits. This meant that you took 5 total treatments during the study. At each treatment visit,
you stayed at the study site for 1 or 2 days.
You and all of the other participants were randomly assigned to take some of the 6 treatments. No
participants took all of the treatments.
In this study:
• 107 participants took 6 micrograms, or µg, of formoterol in the inhaler
• 121 participants took 12 µg of formoterol in the inhaler
• 105 participants took 24 µg of formoterol in the inhaler
• 118 participants took 20 µg of formoterol in the nebulizer
• 108 participants took 40 µg of formoterol in the nebulizer
• 38 participants took a placebo in the inhaler
You and all of the other participants took 1 of the 6 treatments every day during each treatment
visit. Most treatment visits lasted 7 days. If participants took the 40 µg formoterol treatment in the
nebulizer during a treatment visit, then they only stayed at the study site for 1 day.
The figure below shows how the study was done.
Double-blind, crossover study: 132 participants
5 treatment visits
Visits 3 through 7
132 participants
Screening visit Follow-up
Visits 1 and 2 All participants took some phone call
of the below treatments:
• 6 µg of formoterol in Inhaler
• 12 µg of formoterol in Inhaler
• 24 µg of formoterol in Inhaler
• 20 µg of formoterol in nebulizer
• 40 µg of formoterol in nebulizer
• a placebo in Inhaler
There was a “washout period” of 7 to 9 days between treatments. During a washout period,
participants are not allowed to take certain drugs. This means that when participants take the next
study treatment, all drugs have been processed and “washed out” of their bodies.
During the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking your height, weight, and
blood pressure. Study doctors also checked your heart health by using an ECG, and tested your
blood to make sure that you were still healthy. Study doctors asked how you were feeling, and also
checked your lung function.
At the end of the study, the study staff called you 14 to 17 days after your last treatment to ask
about your health and how you were feeling.
3