Clinical Trial Results
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in June 2016 and ended in October 2016. The study included 40 participants at
1 study site in Germany. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report
of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before patients can take a new drug, the company developing it must do research studies to show
that the drug is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug is to test it in healthy people.
This means people without any serious health problems.
The study drug, AZD4831, is being developed to treat heart disease. Heart disease includes
many problems that can affect the heart, like blocked or clogged arteries, heart rhythm problems,
and heart problems that you are born with. These problems could cause chest pain, stroke, or
heart attacks.
In Part A of this study, researchers compared different doses of AZD4831 to a placebo. A placebo
looks like the study drug but contains no real medicine. Researchers use a placebo so that they can
compare the results of participants who take study drugs with the results of participants who take
no medicine at all.
In Part B of this study, researchers studied the effects of food on taking 1 dose of AZD4831 alone.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did AZD4831 act in the body?
• What medical problems did participants have after they took AZD4831?
What kind of study was this?
Part A of your study was “single-blind”. This means that the study staff knew which drug the
participants took, but the participants did not. Study staff found out which drug each participant
took after the participants’ last visit.
You and the other participants took AZD4831 or a placebo. Which treatment participants took was
decided by chance, like rolling dice. For every 6 participants who took AZD4831, 2 participants took
a placebo.
Part B of your study was “open-label”. This means that the participants and study staff knew what
study drug each participant took. All of the participants in Part B of your study took AZD4831.
Your study included healthy men who were 19 to 50 years old.
What happened during the study?
This study had 2 parts: Part A and Part B. Participants began the study in Part A and could choose
to join Part B after completing Part A. Participants who were in Part A were in the study for up to
5 weeks. Participants who were in both Part A and Part B were in the study for up to 6 weeks.
2