Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from the study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The website listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
How much mucus did AZD5634 help remove from the lungs?
The researchers found that 1 hour after taking AZD5634, it did not remove any more mucus from
the lungs than the placebo.
To learn how much mucus was removed, the doctors asked the participants to inhale particles
after each treatment. Then the doctors scanned the lungs to measure the level of particles. They
did this about 11 times after the participants inhaled the particles. By measuring how much the
level of particles in the lungs went down, the researchers were also able to measure how much
mucus was removed after 1 hour.
What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study. The medical problems participants have
during clinical studies that the doctors think might be related to the study drug are called “adverse
reactions”.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study treatment.
A lot of research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
The website listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
There were participants who had adverse reactions during the study.
None of the participants stopped taking the study treatment because of adverse reactions they
had during the study.
Because there was a very small number of participants in this study, the number of participants
who had these adverse reactions is not in this summary. This helps protect their identities.
What adverse reactions did participants have?
The adverse reactions that happened in this study were cough, lesser amount of air breathed
out, diarrhea, and dry skin.
3