Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants nor the researchers knew
which treatment the participants took.
Some studies are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking
can affect the results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which
treatment each participant took so they could create a report of the study results.
All of the participants in the study took 1 dose of AZD5634 and 1 dose of a placebo. A placebo
looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make
sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take the treatment are actually caused by
the treatment.
The participants took AZD5634 and the placebo 2 to 3 weeks apart. They took both treatments
using an inhaler. The dose of AZD5634 was 612 micrograms, also called µg.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the order of the treatment each participant
took. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing
the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
The figure below shows how the study was done.
Before treatment During treatment After treatment
The doctors The participants The doctors
• checked the overall health of the • visited their study site 2 times • checked the overall health
participants of the participants
• took AZD5634 at one visit and a
• checked participants’ heart health placebo at the other visit • checked participants' heart
using an electrocardiogram, also health using an ECG
The doctors
called an ECG
• tested how well the
• checked the health of participants
• tested how well the participants’
participants’ lungs worked
lungs worked • checked the participants’ heart
• took blood and urine samples
health using an ECG
• took blood and urine samples
• tested how well the participants’
lungs worked
• took blood and urine samples
• measured how much mucus was
in participants’ lungs
2 to 3 weeks after the
up to 4 weeks 2 to 3 weeks
last treatment
2