Clinical trial results
What’s happened since my study ended?
This study had 2 parts, Part A and Part B. You could only join 1 of the 2 parts.
Part A
Part A of the study started in October 2015 and ended in March 2016. This part of the study
happened at 1 study site in the United Kingdom.
Part A included 16 male participants with asthma.
Part B
Part B of the study started in April 2016 and ended in August 2016. This part of the study
happened at 1 study site in the United Kingdom.
Part B included 38 male and female participants with COPD.
When both parts of the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report of the
results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before patients can take a new drug, the company developing it must do research studies to
show that the drug is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug is to test it in
healthy people. This means people without any serious health problems. The next step is to test
it in people with health problems. The participants in this study had either COPD or asthma.
The study drug, AZD8871, is being developed to treat COPD and possibly other lung diseases
like asthma. COPD is a lung disease that causes a chronic inflammation of the lungs that creates
a blockage of the airways and makes it difficult to breathe. Asthma is a lung disease that can
cause coughing, wheezing, chest tightness, and difficulty breathing. COPD and asthma are both
diseases that make it hard to breathe.
In this study, researchers wanted to see if AZD8871 causes any medical problems, how AZD8871
affects the body, and how AZD8871 acts in the body.
Researchers compared several different doses of AZD8871 to each other, to 2 drugs that are
similar to AZD8871, and to a placebo. The first similar drug is called indacaterol, and the second
similar drug is called tiotropium. A placebo looks like the study drug but contains no real
medicine. Researchers use placebos in studies to compare the results for participants who take
study drugs with the results for participants who take no medicine at all. Researchers wanted
to know:
• What medical problems did participants have after they got AZD8871?
• How did AZD8871 affect the body?
• How did AZD8871 act in the body?
What kind of study was this?
This study had 2 parts: Part A and Part B.
Part A
Part A of the study included 16 male participants with asthma who were 21 to 65 years old.
Part A of the study was “single-blind”. This means that none of the participants knew what
treatment each participant took but the study staff did. In Part A, participants took either
AZD8871 or the placebo.
2