Clinical trial results
In Part A of the study and during the follow-up visit, study doctors did tests to make sure the
participants were still healthy and checked participants’ hearts using an electrocardiogram, or ECG.
Part B
Participants in Part B were in the study for up to about 3 months.
In Part B, 10 of the 38 participants didn’t complete the study. The participants who did complete
the study visited the study site 7 times. These participants then had a follow-up phone call after
the 7th visit to check on the participants’ health.
The first visit was a screening visit to make sure you and all the other participants were healthy
enough to take part in the study.
A total of 28 participants got 400 and 1800 µg of AZD8871, 150 µg of indacaterol, 18 µg of
tiotropium, and the placebo. These 28 participants in Part B took all 5 treatments.
There was a “washout period” of 7 to 21 days between treatments. The figure below shows how
Part B of the study was done.
Part B: Double-Blind
28 participants got
Participants 5 Part B treatments
• 400 μg of AZD8871
• 1800 μg of AZD8871
• 150 μg of indacaterol
• 18 μg of tiotropium
• placebo
Washout period of 7 to 21 days between treatments
In Part B of the study and during the follow-up visit, study doctors did tests to make sure the
participants were still healthy and checked participants’ hearts using an electrocardiogram, or ECG.
What were the study results?
Below is a summary of the results of some of the questions the researchers asked during this
study. It is important to know that researchers look at the results of many studies to decide
which medicines work best and are safest for patients. Further clinical studies with AZD8871
are ongoing.
What medical problems did participants have during the study?
A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes a medical problem, so researchers
keep track of all medical problems that participants had during the study. These medical
problems are called “adverse events”. They may or may not be caused by the study drug.
4