Clinical Trial Results
What’s happened since my study ended?
Your study started in November 2016 and ended in April 2017. The study included 32 participants at
1 study site in Germany. When the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report
of the results. This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be given to patients, the company developing it must do research studies to
show that the drug is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug is to test it in healthy
people. This means people without any serious health problems.
The study drug, AZD7594, is being developed to treat asthma and COPD. These illnesses can cause
inflammation, or swelling in tissues, in the lungs. This swelling can sometimes make breathing
difficult. Inhalers that contain steroids are used in patients with COPD and asthma to reduce
inflammation. AZD7594 does not contain steroids, but it works in a similar way to steroids taken
by an inhaler.
In this study, researchers compared taking AZD7594 alone and together with another drug called
abediterol. AZD7594 works by relaxing and expanding your airways after being inhaled. Both study
drugs were in the form of a dry powder inhaler, also called DPI. The study drugs were put into a
sealed chamber inside the inhaler. A dose of the study drug was released every time you pressed
the inhaler and breathed in. Researchers wanted to see how much of the study drugs entered the
blood of each participant after using the inhalers.
Researchers wanted to know:
• How did AZD7594 and abediterol act in the body when they were taken alone
and taken together?
• What medical problems did participants have after taking the study drugs?
What kind of study was this?
Your study was an “open-label” study. This means that the participants and study staff knew what
study drug each participant took.
Your study was also a “crossover” study. In a crossover study, all participants get the same treatments
and tests, but the treatments are given in a random order, like rolling dice. In this study, all
participants took AZD7594 and abediterol, but in a different order.
Your study included healthy men who were 21 to 55 years old.
What happened during the study?
You and other participants were in the study for about 16 weeks.
To see if you could join the study, study doctors did a physical examination by checking your
height, weight, blood pressure, pulse, and temperature. Study doctors also took blood and urine
samples, checked your lung health, and checked your heart health using an electrocardiogram,
or ECG. Study doctors also asked about your medical history, how you were feeling, and what
medicines you were taking.
2