Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is an overall summary of the main results from this study. The results each participant had
might be different and may not be in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers
wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full
report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
How did rosuvastatin act in the body when taken alone compared to when taken
with AZD5718?
The researchers wanted to learn how rosuvastatin acted in the bodies of participants when
taken alone compared to when taken with AZD5718. Since only Dose 1 and Dose 2 had
rosuvastatin in them, only the results for those doses are discussed below.
The researchers measured the average amount of rosuvastatin in the blood, the highest
amount of rosuvastatin in the blood, and how long it took for rosuvastatin to reach its highest
amount in the blood.
The researchers found that:
• The average amount of rosuvastatin in the blood of participants was similar when
participants took Dose 1 or Dose 2.
• The participants had higher amounts of rosuvastatin in their blood when they took the
drugs together in Dose 2 compared to when they took rosuvastatin alone in Dose 1.
• It took less time for rosuvastatin to reach its highest amount in the blood when
participants took both drugs together in Dose 2 compared to than when they took
rosuvastatin alone in Dose 1.
What medical problems did participants have?
The medical problems participants have during clinical studies that the doctors think might be
related to the study drug are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study drug.
A lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
The adverse reactions that happened in this study are not in this summary. Because there was
a very small number of participants, leaving this information out helps protect their identities.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about medical
problems that happened in this study.
3