Clinical Study Results
Part 2
Participants in Part 2 were in the study for up to 8 weeks. They visited their study site 3 times.
Participants in Part 2 took 3 doses of either AZD0284 or a placebo without food.
About 1 week after their treatment, participants had a follow-up examination.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and may not be in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted
to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the
study results is available, it also can be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
What medical problems did participants have after taking AZD0284?
The medical problems participants have during clinical studies that the doctors think might be
related to the study drug are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot
of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
The adverse reactions that happened in this study are not in this summary. Because there was
a very small number of participants, leaving this information out helps protect their identities. The
websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about medical problems
that happened in this study.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers learn about the safety of AZD0284 and its ability to help
participants with psoriasis.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. This summary shows only the main results from this 1 study. Other studies may provide
new information or different results.
Further clinical studies with AZD0284 are planned.
3