Clinical Study Results
A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a
placebo to help make sue that any of the effects they see in the participants who got
the drug are actually caused by the drug.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant got.
Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate
as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before the study started, the doctors did a physical examination and asked
participants about their medical history and what medicines they were taking to make
sure the participants could join the study. They also took blood and urine samples and
checked the heart health of participants using an electrocardiogram, also known as
an ECG.
During Part A, the participants visited their study site and stayed at the site for up to
9 days. During this visit, the participants got 6 injections that had either AZD8601 and
a placebo, or a placebo only.
After the first visit, the participants in Part A visited their study site 8 more times
for follow-up visits. At each follow-up visit, the doctors checked the health of the
participants again. These visits happened about once a month for 6 months.
During Part B, the participants visited their study site and stayed at the site for up
to 3 days. During this visit, the participants got 2 injections that had AZD8601 and
2 injections that had a placebo.
After the first visit, the participants in Part B visited their study site 7 more times
for follow- up visits. At each follow-up visit, the doctors checked the health of the
participants again. These visits happened about once a month for 6 months.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant
had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers
wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full
report of the study results is available, it also can be found on these websites.
2