Clinical Study Results
The researchers had planned to include more participants, but the study was stopped early. It
was stopped because participants were having medical problems, their disease was getting
worse, or both.
What happened during the study?
The study started in January 2017 and ended in September 2019.
Before the participants got study treatment, they visited their study site 1 time. This
happened about 4 weeks before the participants got study treatment. At this visit, the study
doctors made sure that the participants could join the study. They also:
• did a physical exam and asked about the participants’ medications and any medical problems
they were having
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG, and an
echocardiogram
• took pictures of each participant’s tumors using CT or MRI scans
• did a procedure called a biopsy to take a sample of the tumors of some of the participants
• took blood and urine samples
The study doctors also did these tests and measurements throughout the study.
While the participants were getting study treatment, they visited their study site 7 times
over 6 weeks. Then, they visited every 3 weeks until they stopped study treatment. At these
visits, the participants got their IV infusions of MEDI3726 and the study doctors checked their
health.
After the participants got study treatment, they visited their study site 3 times over 3
months. At these visits, the study doctors checked the health of the participants.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
3