Clinical Study Results
What signs and symptoms did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the study doctors did tests and measurements before and after the
participants got MEDI3726. The doctors did physical exams and tested the participants’ blood
and urine samples to check their overall health. They also did ECGs to check the participants’
heart health.
Overall, the researchers found that the participants did have some changes in their blood tests
after getting treatment. Some measurements were too high, and some were too low.
The measurements that were too high were:
• liver proteins called ALT, AST, GGT, and ALP
• digestive system proteins called lipase and amylase
• blood sugar
• urine crystals in blood, also called urate
The measurements that were too low were:
• blood cells that help form clots, also called platelets
• a blood protein that carries oxygen, also called hemoglobin
• overall white blood cells
• one of the types of white blood cells called neutrophils
• blood potassium and sodium
The researchers found that there were some small changes in the results of the other tests and
measurements. But, the researchers did not consider these to be significant.
The study doctors also kept track of the “adverse events” that the participants had. An adverse
event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a study. Doctors keep track of all the
adverse events that happen in studies, even if they do not think the adverse events might be
related to the study treatment.
Later in this document, there will be a summary of the adverse events that the study doctors
thought might be related to the study treatment. This section is a summary of all the adverse
events, whether they might be related to the study treatment or not. An adverse event is
considered “serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or the participant needs
hospital care.
Adverse events may or may not be caused by the treatments in the study. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse event.
4