Clinical Study Results
Potassium is found in many foods. It helps the body control blood pressure, heart rhythm,
and do other important tasks. When potassium levels in the blood become too high, the
body may not be able to do these tasks well. This can lead to several medical problems.
People can develop high potassium levels if their diet has too much potassium, or if their
body cannot get rid of enough potassium through stool.
There are treatments for high potassium, but these treatments can cause constipation
and other medical problems. So, researchers are looking for new ways to treat high
potassium levels. ZS may be able to lower potassium levels by helping the body get rid of
potassium through urine or stool.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did ZS help keep potassium levels normal?
• Did ZS affect the participants’ overall health?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and
women with high potassium levels. The participants in this study were 31 to 90 years old.
What kind of study was this?
Part 1 of the study was “open-label”. This means the researchers and the
participants knew that the participants took ZS during this part.
In Part 1, all of the participants took ZS by mouth.
Part 2 of the study was “double-blind”. This means none of the participants,
doctors, or other study staff knew which treatment each participant took during this part.
Some studies are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are
taking can affect the results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor
found out which treatment the participants took so they could create a report of the study
results.
In Part 2, the participants took either ZS or a placebo by mouth. A placebo looks like a drug
but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to make sure any of the
effects they see in the participants who take a drug are actually caused by that drug.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant took
in Part 2. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2