Clinical Trial RESULTS
When participants in Group 2 ate a high-calorie, high-fat meal and then took the
10 mg capsules, they had about 16% more RDEA3170 in their bodies than when
they took them after fasting.
Did RDEA3170 help the body get rid of uric acid?
Yes. Participants in both groups had less uric acid in the blood after taking
RDEA3170 capsules than after taking RDEA3170 tablets. Participants who took
RDEA3170 capsules had between 29% and 52% less uric acid in their blood after
taking RDEA3170 than before taking it. The amount of uric acid decreased most
in participants in Group 1 after taking the 10 mg capsules after a high-calorie,
high-fat meal and least in participants in Group 1 after taking the 5 mg capsules
after fasting overnight.
WHAT MEDICAL PROBLEMS DID PARTICIPANTS HAVE
DURING THE STUDY?
A lot of research is needed to know if a drug causes a medical problem. So when
researchers study new drugs, they keep track of all the medical problems that
participants have during the study. These problems are called “adverse events”.
They may or may not be caused by the study drug.
Five participants (30%) had at least 1 medical problem during the study:
Two participants in Group 1 (10%) had medical problems during the study.
• 1 participant had a virus after taking the 5 mg capsule after fasting overnight.
• 1 participant had a headache after taking the 5 mg capsule after eating
a high-fat, high-calorie meal.
Three participants in Group 2 (20%) had medical problems during the study.
• 2 participants had diarrhea after taking the 10 mg capsule after fasting
overnight. One of them also had diarrhea after taking the 10 mg capsule
after eating a high-fat, high-calorie meal.
• 1 participant had muscle and joint stiffness after taking the 10 mg capsule
after eating a high-fat, high-calorie meal.
What serious medical problems did participants have?
A medical problem is considered serious when it is life-threatening, causes lasting
problems, or a participant needs hospital care.
During this study, no participants had serious medical problems, and no participants died.
6