Clinical Trial RESULTS
What’s happened since my study ended?
The study started in November 2015 and ended in January 2016. The entire study took about 3 months
to complete and included 40 men at 1 study site. The study site was located in the United States. When
the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report of the results. This is a summary
of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Before a new drug can be given to patients, the company developing the drug must do research studies to
show that it is safe and effective. The first step in studying a new drug is to test it in people without any
serious health problems. This study included 40 healthy men between the ages of 18 and 65 years.
The study drug, RDEA3170, may help treat gout by helping the kidneys process a substance called uric
acid. Uric acid is made when the body breaks down a substance in the body called purine. Purine is also
found in some foods. Most uric acid leaves the body through urine. Gout can be caused by uric acid not
leaving the body properly and instead, building up in the blood and joints.
In this study, researchers wanted know:
• Did RDEA3170 help the body get rid of uric acid?
• How much RDEA3170 was in participants’ blood after each dose?
• How did RDEA3170 act in the body when taken with and without food?
• Did participants have medical problems during the study?
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means that the participants and the study staff knew what study drug
each participant took.
What happened during the study?
Participants stayed at the clinical research unit for up to 14 days. Before starting this study, study doctors
did a physical examination, checked participants’ blood pressure, heart rate, and body temperature, took
blood and urine samples, ran tests, and asked about each man’s medical history to make sure they could
participate in the study.
During the study, study doctors continued to check participants’ blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature. Doctors also took blood and urine samples to measure the amount of RDEA3170 and uric
acid in participants’ blood. They asked participants how they were feeling and did an electrocardiogram or
ECG. An ECG is a test to check the heart’s rhythm. At different times of the study, all participants had to
fast before taking RDEA3170. Fasting means that participants cannot eat or drink for a specific time. In
this study, participants could not eat or drink anything for at least 10 hours before they took RDEA3170
and for 4 hours after taking RDEA3170.
This study had 3 parts:
Part 1 had 16 participants who stayed in the clinical research unit for 14 days. Participants took a single
4.5, 6, or 12 milligram (mg) dose of RDEA3170. Each participant took all 3 doses of RDEA3170 but in a
different order. They took the first dose of RDEA3170 on Day 1, another dose on Day 5, and the last dose
on Day 9.
Part 2 had 8 participants who stayed in the clinical research unit for 10 days. Each participant took one
12 mg dose of RDEA3170 every day for 7 days.
2