Clinical Trial RESULTS
What’s happened since my study ended?
The study started in October 2015 and ended in July 2016. The entire study took almost
10 months to complete. It included 119 participants at 1 site in the United States. When
the study ended, the sponsor reviewed the data and created a report of the results. This is
a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Gout is a type of arthritis, or inflammation of the joints, that can cause pain and stiffness.
Even though you and the other participants in this study didn’t have gout and were
considered healthy, researchers believe that the results of this study will help patients who
do have gout. Gout is caused by too much uric acid in your blood. Uric acid is made
when your body breaks down certain substances. It usually leaves your body through
urine. Gout can happen when uric acid does not leave your body properly and instead
builds up in the blood and joints. The study drugs lesinurad and allopurinol treat gout by
helping reduce uric acid in your body. The sponsor wanted to find out if, in the future, it
would be effective to combine the 2 drugs into one tablet.
In this study, researchers wanted to know:
• How much lesinurad and allopurinol stayed in participants’ blood when
taken as one combined tablet compared to separate tablets?
• How much lesinurad and allopurinol stayed in participants’ blood when
taken with food compared to without food?
• Did participants have medical problems during the study?
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the participants and study staff knew what
study drug each participant took.
What happened during the study?
There were 119 participants in this study. All participants were healthy adults between the
ages of 18 and 65 years.
Participants stayed at the study site up to 12 days. Study doctors did a physical exam,
took urine samples, and asked about participants’ medical history to make sure they could
participate in the study. They checked participants’ blood pressure, heart rate, and body
temperature. Study doctors also took blood samples and did an electrocardiogram, or ECG,
to check participants’ heart health. Study doctors also took blood samples to measure the
amount of lesinurad and allopurinol in the blood.
2