Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have advanced cancer or
cancer that has spread, and whose cancer is caused by a gene called KRAS. Before a
drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how
safe it is and how it works.
A solid tumor is a type of cancer that starts in an organ of the body. An “advanced” solid
tumor usually means that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body. When there
are changes in the KRAS gene, tumor cells can grow out of control. AZD4785 is designed
to work by reducing the amount of protein made by the KRAS gene, and to slow the
growth of tumor cells.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn about the safety of different doses of
AZD4785. They also wanted to learn what medical problems the participants had.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Which dose of AZD4785 was safest?
• Which dose of AZD4785 would be best to test in future research?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer these questions, the researchers asked for the help of men and women with
advanced cancer or cancer that had spread. Everyone in the study was 48 to 82 years
old when they joined. All participants had cancer that was caused by a change in the
KRAS gene. They had received treatment for their cancer, but their cancer had come
back or had worsened after treatment.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew
what the participant was taking. All of the participants in this study got AZD4785 through
a needle into their vein, also called intravenous infusion. Doses were measured in
milligrams, also called mg.
This was also a “dose escalation” study. This means that the first group of participants
started out on a low dose of AZD4785. The doctors carefully looked at the results for
these participants. Then, the researchers decided whether to increase the dose in the
next group of participants. Researchers use dose escalation studies to learn about the
safety of a specific dose before participants are given a higher dose.
2