Clinical Study Results
Which dose of AZD4785 was safest?
To answer this question, the study doctors counted the number of dose-limiting toxicities
the participants had during the study. A dose-limiting toxicity is a medical problem that is
severe enough to stop the study doctor from continuing to treat the participant on a dose
of study treatment. A dose-limiting toxicity is also known as a DLT.
Overall, the researchers found that the results of the participants’ tests and
measurements did not change during the study. There were small differences in the
results of these tests and measurements before and after getting AZD4785. But the
differences were too small for the researchers to know if AZD4785 was the cause.
The researchers found that 1 out of 5 participants in Group 6 had a DLT. This was 20.0%
of the participants in Group 6. None of the other participants in the study had a DLT.
The researchers had planned to have a second part of the study, where additional
participants were to be given a dose that had been well-tolerated in part 1 of the study.
However, the study was stopped because the sponsor decided not to do any more
research into this drug. So, no dose of AZD4785 was chosen.
Which dose of AZD4785 would be best to test in future research?
To answer this question, the researchers compared the results of the tests and
measurements that the doctors did before and after the participants got AZD4785.
The researchers also collected information about how many “adverse events” the
participants had.
An adverse event is any medical problem that happens during the study. Adverse events
are considered “serious” when they are life-threatening, cause lasting problems, or
require hospital care. Adverse events may or may not be caused by the study drug. This
section includes information about the adverse events that the study doctors did not think
were related to the study drug.
How many participants had adverse events not thought to be related?
• 21.4% of participants had at least 1 adverse event that was not related to the study
drug. This was 6 out of 28 participants.
• 10.7% of participants had at least 1 serious adverse event that was not related to the
study drug. This was 3 out of 28 participants.
• There were 10.7% of participants who stopped taking the study drug because of
adverse events. This was 3 out of 28 participants. 1 participant stopped taking the
study drug because of adverse events that were not related to the study drug.
5