Clinical Study Results
After this, the participants visited the study site every 12 weeks for as long as
they stayed in the study. At these visits, the doctors took pictures of the participants’
tumors using CT or MRI scans.
Before the
After the
participants During the Until the end
last dose
took the study of the study
study treatment
The doctors: The participants: 7 days after the last dose: • The participants
visited the study site
• checked to make • took savolitinib or • The participants
every 12 weeks
sure the sunitinib visited the study site
participants could • The doctors checked
• visited the study site The doctors:
join the study if the participants’
5 times during the
• checked the
tumor had grown
• took blood and first 2 treatment
participants’ health
urine samples cycles
• took blood and urine
• did CT or MRI scans • visited the study site
samples
1 time at the start of
• took tumor samples
• did CT or MRI scans
each cycle after that
to test for MET gene
30 days after the last
mutations The doctors:
dose:
• took blood and urine
• The doctors checked
samples
the participants’
• did CT or MRI scans
health
Up to 1 month Up to 22 months 30 days
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the
end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be
found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results.
Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did savolitinib slow the participants’ tumor growth compared to
sunitinib?
Overall, the difference between the treatment groups was too small for the
researchers to know if savolitinib slowed the participants’ tumor growth compared
to sunitinib.
5