Clinical Study Results
What treatments did the participants get?
The participants in this study got MEDI3506 or a placebo. A placebo looks like
a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help
make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take the drug are
actually caused by the drug.
The participants got study treatment in 1 of 2 ways. They could get it through a
needle under the skin, also called an injection under the skin. They could also get it
through a needle into a vein. This is known as intravenous treatment, also called
IV treatment. Since IV treatment goes directly into a vein, it reaches the blood
faster and is transported faster throughout the body compared to an injection.
This was a “blinded” study. This means the participants, researchers, study
doctors, and other study staff did not know what treatment each participant was
getting within each part, but the research sponsor knew. Some studies are done
this way because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect
the results of the study. When the study ended, the researchers found out which
treatment the participants got so they could create a report of the study results.
Part 1
In Part 1, there were 8 groups of participants. Each group got MEDI3506 or the
placebo through an injection under the skin or through IV treatment. This part was
done as a “dose escalation” part. This means that for the participants who got
MEDI3506, the first group of participants started out taking a low dose. The study
doctors looked at the results for these participants. Then, the researchers decided
whether or not to increase the dose of MEDI3506 in the next group of participants.
After the researchers studied the safety results from Part 1, the participants in
Part 2 and Part 3 could start getting study treatment.
Part 2
In Part 2, there were 4 groups of participants. Each group got either MEDI3506 or
the placebo through injections under the skin.
Part 2 was also a “dose escalation” part. This means that for the participants who got
MEDI3506, the first group of participants started out taking a low dose. The study
doctors looked at the results for these participants. Then, the researchers decided
whether or not to increase the dose of MEDI3506 in the next group of participants.
3