This was an “open-label” study. This means the participants, study doctors, and
other study staff knew what each participant was getting. A computer program
was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant got. This helps make
sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results
of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
For the first 12 weeks of the study, the participants got their treatment once every
3 weeks. Each of the study treatments were given through a needle in a vein, also
known as an IV infusion.
After about 12 weeks:
> All of the participants who were getting durvalumab stopped getting
chemotherapy and continued getting durvalumab once every 4 weeks until
they left the study or the study doctors thought the treatments were no
longer helping them.
> The participants who were also getting tremelimumab got 1 more dose of
tremelimumab and then continued getting durvalumab once every 4 weeks
until they left the study or the study doctors thought the treatments were no
longer helping them.
> The participants who were getting chemotherapy alone could get an
additional 2 rounds of chemotherapy and also brain radiation therapy if the
study doctors thought they needed it. Doctors sometimes give brain radiation
therapy to people with lung cancer just in case the tumors have spread to the
brain but are still too small to see.
The chart below shows the treatments the researchers planned to study.
First 12 weeks of the study After 12 weeks of study treatment
Group 1
• Durvalumab with chemotherapy • Durvalumab by IV infusion
(268 participants)
by IV infusions once every once every 4 weeks
3 weeks
Group 2
• Durvalumab and tremelimumab • Durvalumab by IV infusion once
(268 participants)
with chemotherapy by IV every 4 weeks and
infusions once every 3 weeks
• 1 more dose of tremelimumab
Group 3 • Chemotherapy alone by IV • 2 more rounds of chemotherapy
(269 participants) infusions once every 3 weeks and brain radiation therapy
if the study doctors thought the
participants needed it
6 | Clinical Study Results