Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients with high potassium
levels in their blood. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take,
researchers do clinical studies to find out if it works and how safe it is.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if ZS works in participants
with high potassium levels in their blood. They also wanted to find out if the
participants had any medical problems during the study.
Potassium is found in many foods. It helps the body perform several important
functions, like controlling blood pressure and heart rhythm. When potassium
levels in a person’s blood become too high, his or her body may not be able to
perform these functions well. This can lead to several medical problems.
People can develop high blood potassium levels if their diet has too much
potassium, or if their body cannot get rid of enough potassium through urine
or stool. There are treatments for high blood potassium levels, but these
treatments can cause constipation. So, researchers are looking for new ways
to treat high blood potassium levels. ZS may be able to lower blood potassium
levels by helping the body get rid of potassium through urine or stool.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did ZS affect the participants’ blood potassium levels?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men
and women with high blood potassium levels. The participants in this study were
50 to 89 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors,
or other study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies
are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking
can affect the results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor
found out which treatment the participants took so they could create a report of
the study results.
2