Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
What medical problems did participants have during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. These medical problems are called
“adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening,
causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
In this study, none of the 34 participants had a serious adverse reaction.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
There were 2.9% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 1 out of
34 participants.
None of the participants stopped taking AZD9898 because of adverse reactions during the study.
What adverse reactions did the participants have?
The adverse reactions that happened in this study were headache and nosebleed.
This happened in 1 out of 25 participants that took AZD9898. This was 4% of participants that
took AZD9898. This participant took the highest dose of AZD9898.
None of the 9 participants who took the placebo had an adverse reaction.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
The results shown in this summary are for this single study. These results helped researchers
learn how AZD9898 works in healthy participants.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one study. Other studies may provide
new information or different results. However, further clinical studies with AZD9898 in participants
with asthma are not currently planned.
3