What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions that the researchers
wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. When a full
report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Did dapagliflozin affect the amount of sodium removed in the urine?
To answer this question, the study doctors measured the amount of sodium in the participants’
urine throughout the study. The researchers compared the results from before the participants
took dapagliflozin to the results after they took dapagliflozin.
Overall, the researchers found that compared to before treatment with dapagliflozin:
> The participants who had T2D and healthy kidneys did not have a meaningful change in
the amount of sodium in their urine.
> The researchers could not determine if dapagliflozin affected the amount of sodium
removed in the urine for the participants who did not have T2D but had low functioning
kidneys. This was because too few of these participants joined this study.
What medical problems happened during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatment. These medical problems
are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life-
threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatment. A lot of research
is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction. These adverse reactions
have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of the available data for the study
treatment.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
Did any adverse reactions happen during this study?
There were 16.7% of participants who had adverse reactions during this study thought to be
related to study treatment. This was 4 out of 24 participants.
> 23.5% of participants who had T2D and healthy kidneys had adverse reactions thought to
be related to study treatment. This was 4 out of 17 participants.
> Of the participants who did not have T2D but had low functioning kidneys, none had
adverse reactions thought to be related to study treatment.
6 | Clinical Study Results