Overview of this study
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people with low functioning
kidneys. Before a treatment can be approved for people to take, researchers do
clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
Low functioning kidneys are kidneys that remove lower amounts of sodium in
the urine compared to healthy kidneys. This is a common condition in people
with type 2 diabetes, also known as T2D.
The study treatment, dapagliflozin, is already used to treat people with T2D.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out more about how dapagliflozin
affects the kidneys’ ability to remove sodium in the urine.
What treatments did the participants take?
The participants in this study took dapagliflozin. The participants who had T2D
also continued taking any treatments for T2D that they were on before the
study started.
What were the results of the study?
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
>
Did dapagliflozin affect the amount of sodium removed in the
urine?
Overall, the researchers found that the participants who had T2D and
healthy kidneys did not have a meaningful change in the amount of
sodium in their urine. The researchers could not determine if dapagliflozin
affected the amount of sodium removed in the urine for the participants
who did not have T2D but had low functioning kidneys. This was because
too few of these participants joined the study.
>
What medical problems happened during the study?
There were 16.7% of participants who had medical problems during
the study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study
treatment.
More details about the results of this study are included later in this summary.
Where can I learn more about this study?
You can find more information about this study on the websites listed on the
last page. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also be
found on those websites.
2 | Clinical Study Results