Who took part in the study?
The researchers asked for the help of people who had T2D and healthy kidneys. They also
asked for the help of people who did not have T2D but had low functioning kidneys. The
participants were 46 to 76 years old when they joined.
The researchers also planned to include participants who had both T2D and low functioning
kidneys. But, the researchers were not able to find enough of these participants to join this
study. So, this study did not include participants who had T2D and low functioning kidneys.
The study included 24 participants in the Netherlands and Sweden.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people with low functioning kidneys. Before a
treatment can be approved for people to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it
works and how safe it is.
The study treatment, dapagliflozin, is currently used to treat people with T2D. Researchers already
did studies with dapagliflozin in participants with T2D. In this study, the researchers wanted to find
out more about how dapagliflozin affects the kidneys in people with and without T2D.
People with T2D can have high blood sugar levels, which can lead to medical problems. In
serious cases, T2D can also lead to long lasting kidney disease and other kidney problems.
People can also have kidney disease without having T2D.
In healthy people, the kidneys help the body control and remove substances, such as sodium, in
the urine. In people with low functioning kidneys, sodium levels in the body may increase. Low
functioning kidneys may remove less sodium in the urine. Higher sodium levels in the body can
cause more kidney damage and increase blood pressure.
Dapagliflozin is an available treatment to control the blood sugar levels in people with T2D.
Dapagliflozin works by helping the body remove sugar in the urine. Researchers think that
dapagliflozin may also help the body remove excess sodium in the urine.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn how dapagliflozin affects kidneys in people with
and without T2D. To do this, they measured the amount of sodium in the participants’ urine
throughout the study. The researchers also took blood samples, measured body fluids and
blood pressure, and performed other tests to check the participants’ health.
What was the purpose of this study?
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
> Did dapagliflozin affect the amount of sodium removed in the urine?
> What medical problems happened during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to learn more about how dapagliflozin works.
3 | Clinical Study Results