Clinical Study Results
The chart below shows what happened during the study.
Before the About 7 days
participants after taking
took treatment Part 1 Part 2 the last dose
The doctors: • The participants • The participants • The participants
• checked to make visited the study site visited the study site visited the study site
sure the participants up to 4 times. up to 18 times. 1 more time.
• At the end of Part 1
could join the study • The doctors checked The doctors: The doctors:
all participants had
• checked the the participants’ normal blood • checked the • checked the
participants’ blood blood potassium potassium levels and participants’ blood participants’ blood
potassium levels levels and did ECGs. joined Part 2 of the potassium levels and potassium levels and
• took blood and study. overall health overall health
urine samples and • took blood and urine • took blood and urine
did ECGs samples at some samples
visits • did an ECG
• did ECGs at some
visits
Up to 1 day Up to 3 days Up to 1 year Up to 7 days
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant
had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers
wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full
report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk
to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did the participants’ safety results change during the study?
No. Overall, the participants’ safety results did not change during the study.
To answer this question, the doctors did tests and measurements before and after
the participants took ZS. The doctors did physical exams and tested the participants’
blood and urine samples to check their overall health. They also did ECGs to check the
participants’ heart health. Overall, the researchers found that there were some small
changes in the results of these tests and measurements. But, the researchers did not
consider these to be significant.
5