Clinical Study Results
How much air the participants could breathe out 2 hours after taking treatment
After 24 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that there were not meaningful differences
between the GFF and UV treatments in how much air the participants could breathe out in
1 second 2 hours after taking the drug.
At the beginning of the study, researchers measured the amount of air participants breathed out
in 1 second in the morning before taking their first dose of treatment. At each visit, they measured
the maximum amount of air participants breathed out in 1 second in the morning up to 2 hours
after taking treatment. Researchers then compared these measurements to the measurements
they took before the first dose of treatment. The amount of air breathed out was measured in mL.
Over the 24 weeks of the study:
• The participants taking GFF breathed out an average of 293.5 mL more air after taking treatment.
• The participants taking UV breathed out an average of 296.9 mL more air after taking treatment.
The graph below shows these results
Change in amount of air the participants could
breathe out 2 hours after treatment
350
293.5 mL 296.9 mL 300 eht ehtaerb
ria )Lm(
250
fo
tnuoma dluoc dnoces
200
150 stnapicitrap
1
ni ni
100 egnahC tuo
50
0
GFF UV
Compared with participants taking UV, how breathless were participants taking
GFF during common daily activities?
After 24 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that there were not meaningful differences in
how breathless participants were between those taking GFF and those taking UV.
Throughout the study, on average, participants taking either GFF or UV treatment reported
having improved COPD symptoms and were able to breathe more easily during daily activities.
The doctors used a questionnaire to ask the participants about how breathless they were during
common daily activities. Over the 24 weeks of the study, the scores from the questionnaire
had increased by an average of 1.2 units for the GFF participants and 1.6 units for the UV
participants. An increase in the scores of this questionnaire meant their symptoms had improved.
5