Clinical Study Results
Did GFF affect the early morning symptoms of COPD at least as much as UV did?
After 24 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that there were not meaningful differences in
the early morning symptoms of COPD between the participants taking GFF and the participants
taking UV in this questionnaire.
Over the study, on average, all participants taking either GFF or UV treatment reported having
less severe early morning symptoms of COPD.
The participants filled out a questionnaire about their early morning COPD symptoms. They
repeated this questionnaire during the morning of each study visit. The researchers compared
the questionnaire scores to the questionnaire scores at the start of the study. Over the 24 weeks
of the study, the scores from the questionnaire had decreased by an average of 0.14 units for
the GFF participants and 0.18 units for the UV participants. A decrease in the scores from this
questionnaire meant their symptoms had improved.
What medical problems did participants have during
the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments. These medical problems are
called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening,
causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not have been caused by the study treatments. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during the study.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
• There were 0.9% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 10 out
of 1,104 participants whose safety data was available during the study.
- There were 1.3% of participants taking GFF who had adverse reactions during the study.
This was 7 out of 552 participants.
- There were 0.5% of participants taking UV who had adverse reactions related to the
treatment during the study. This was 3 out of 552 participants.
• There were 0.5% of participants who stopped taking GFF because of adverse reactions. This
was 3 out of 552 participants.
• There were 0.2% of participants who stopped taking UV because of adverse reactions. This
was 1 out of 552 participants.
6