Clinical Study Results
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant received. This
helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results
of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
At the beginning of the study, participants visited the study site 2 times. At these visits, the
doctors checked participants’ overall health and lungs to make sure they could stay in the study.
If participants were able to join the study, the doctors may have asked them to stop taking certain
medicines. This helped make sure any effects the researchers saw in the participants were due
to the treatments in the study.
While taking the treatments, the participants visited the study site 5 times. At each visit, the
doctors or study staff measured how much air the participants could breathe out. The participants
also completed questionnaires about how the treatments were affecting them.
Two weeks after stopping the treatments, the doctors called the participants to see how
they were feeling.
The figure below shows how the study was done.
At the beginning While taking Two weeks after
of the study the treatments stopping the treatments
• Doctors checked the health Participants took two treatments, Doctors called participants to
of participants either: see how they were feeling
• ECG of the heart • GFF and a placebo that looked
• Chest X-ray or CT scan of like UV, or
lungs • UV and a placebo that looked
• Blood samples taken like GFF
The participants took GFF or its
placebo twice a day. They took
UV or its placebo once a day.
1-4 weeks 24 weeks 2 weeks later
Up to 30 weeks
1,119 participants in total
1,014 participants completed the study
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted to
answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of the summary. If a full report of the study
results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
3