Clinical Study Results
GFF is used to treat COPD. It works by relaxing muscles in the airways to allow more air into the
lungs. This makes it easier to breathe. GFF is taken through an inhaler that delivers a specific
amount of GFF to the lungs. The inhaler is known as a metered dose inhaler, also called MDI.
UV is also used to treat COPD. But, UV is taken through a different type of inhaler called a dry
powder inhaler, also called DPI.
The main questions researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did GFF affect the amount of air participants could breathe out at least as much as UV did?
• Compared with participants taking UV, how breathless were participants taking GFF during
common daily activities?
• Did GFF affect the early morning symptoms of COPD at least as much as UV did?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of men and women with
moderate to very severe COPD. The participants in this study:
• were between 40 and 86 years old
• did not have any other lung condition or infection
• had COPD symptoms for more than one year before the study
• had smoked at least 10 pack-years, which means they had smoked an average of at least one
pack of cigarettes a day for 10 years
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors or other study
staff knew what treatment each participant received. Some studies are done this way because
knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results of the study. When the
study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment participants took so they could
create a report of the study results.
The participants in this study took either an active GFF inhaler or an active UV inhaler.
• GFF inhaler: this was made up of 7.2 micrograms, also called µg, of a drug called
glycopyrronium combined with 4.8 µg of a drug called formoterol fumarate. The participants
took two puffs twice a day of this inhaler.
• UV inhaler: this was made up of 62.5 µg of a drug called umeclidinium combined with 25 µg of
a drug called vilanterol. The participants took one puff once a day of this inhaler.
All participants also used a placebo inhaler for the alternative treatment, which did not have any
medicine in it. The placebo inhaler was designed to look like either the GFF or the UV inhaler,
so participants could not tell which one had the medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to
help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take a treatment are actually
caused by the treatment.
2