What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have more information about
the study results.
What signs and symptoms did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the study doctors recorded the results of the participants’
tests and measurements that were done throughout the study. Overall, they found
that there were some changes in the results of these tests and measurements. The
researchers thought that:
> The changes in the participants’ blood test results were significant. These
changes were a decrease in the number of blood cells and possible liver
damage. A decrease in the number of blood cells is a common change in
people who have cancer.
> The changes in the participants’ heart health, measured using an
electrocardiogram, or ECG, in their urine test results, and in their physical
exam results were not significant.
The study doctors also kept track of the “adverse events” that the participants
had. An adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a
study. Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even if
they do not think the adverse events might be related to the study treatment.
Later in this document, there will be a summary of the adverse events that the
study doctors thought might be related to the study treatment. This particular
section is a summary of all the adverse events, whether or not they might be
related to the study treatment. An adverse event is considered “serious” when it is
life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or the participant needs hospital care.
6 | Clinical Study Results