Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment decisions.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
Did AZD1390 enter the brain of healthy participants?
Yes. The researchers found that AZD1390 crossed the BBB and entered the participants’ brains.
To answer this question, the researchers studied the participants’ PET scans, which showed that
AZD1390 had entered the brain.
Did the participants have any medical problems during the study?
The medical problems participants have during clinical studies that the researchers think might
be related to the study drug are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot
of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
None of the participants in this study had adverse reactions related to the small dose of drug that
was given or to the PET scans. The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other
information about medical problems that happened in this study.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers learn more about AZD1390 and that it enters the brains of healthy
participants.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. This summary shows only the main results from this 1 study. Other studies may provide
new information or different results.
Another study is now taking place in patients with brain tumors to see if bigger doses of AZD1390
are safe and can help treat the disease. Further clinical studies with AZD1390 may be planned.
3