Clinical Study Results
During treatment, the participants were put into 1 of 5 treatment groups based on their
kidney health:
• Group 1, 2, 3, and 4 participants had different levels of kidney damage.
• Group 1 participants had the most kidney damage, and Group 4 participants had the
least kidney damage.
• Group 5 participants were healthy.
All of the participants were given 1 dose of 100 micrograms, also called μg, of MEDI0382
through a needle under the skin.
Throughout the treatment period, the researchers continued checking the blood sugar levels,
kidney health, and overall health of the participants and asking them how they were feeling.
After treatment, all of the participants visited their study site 2 more times. During these
visits, the researchers checked the blood sugar levels, kidney health, and overall health of
the participants and asked them how they were feeling.
The chart below shows how the study was done.
Before treatment During treatment After treatment
1 visit 1 visit 2 visits
Doctors checked the health Participants got Doctors checked the
of participants 1 MEDI0382 dose health of participants
over the course of 4 weeks over the course of 4 days over the course of 4 weeks
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results that each of the
participants had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the
researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary.
If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and
are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a
doctor before making any treatment changes.
In this study, fewer Group 1 participants got treatment than the researchers had originally
planned for. This happened because not enough of the participants who were scheduled to
take part in Group 1 in the study actually completed the study. Because of this, the researchers
decided there wasn’t enough information from Group 1 to be included with the main results.
So, some of the results in this summary are only for participants from Groups 2, 3, 4, and 5.
3