Clinical Study Results
About 4 weeks after their last treatment, the participants visited their study site 1 time. At
this visit, the study doctors checked the participants’ blood sugar and overall health, and asked
them how they were feeling.
The chart below shows how the study was done.
Before treatment During the study After last treatment
• The participants visited • The participants visited • The participants visited
their study site 2 times. their study site up to their study site 1 time.
16 times.
• The study doctors checked • The study doctors checked
to make sure the • The participants took the participants’ blood
participants could join the metformin and got sugar and overall health,
study. MEDI0382, liraglutide, or and asked them how they
the placebo. were feeling.
• After 2 weeks, the
participants stopped • The participants who got
taking certain medicines. MEDI0382 started out
getting 100 μg. Their dose
could be increased to
200 μg or 300 μg.
About 4 weeks after the
4 weeks About 12 months
last treatment
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted
to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the
study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Did MEDI0382 help lower the participants’ blood sugar levels?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that the participants who got MEDI0382 had a greater
decrease in their blood sugar levels compared to the participants who got the placebo.
To answer this question, the researchers did a hemoglobin A1c test, also called an HbA1c test,
of each participant’s blood before treatment and throughout the study. The HbA1c test measures
how much blood sugar is attached to a protein called hemoglobin, which is found in red blood
cells. Since red blood cells live for about 3 months, the HbA1c test measures the average levels
of sugar in the blood over the past 3 months.
5