Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have type 2 diabetes and are
overweight or have obesity. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers
need to do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
In people who have type 2 diabetes, the body does not use insulin as well as it should. Insulin
is a hormone made by the pancreas that controls the levels of sugar in the blood. If a person’s
blood sugar levels become too high, he or she can have medical problems. High blood sugar can
also increase food cravings and decrease energy levels. This can lead to weight gain.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn how MEDI0382 affects the blood sugar levels and
weight in participants who have type 2 diabetes and are overweight or have obesity. They also
wanted to find out if the participants had any medical problems during the study.
The participants in this study were already taking a drug called metformin to help control their
blood sugar levels. Metformin works by decreasing the amount of blood sugar that the body
creates and helps the body better respond to insulin. But metformin was not developed to control
food cravings or energy levels. Also, metformin may not control the blood sugar levels or weight
in some people who have diabetes.
The study drug, MEDI0382, is being developed to help people who have type 2 diabetes control
their blood sugar levels. It was designed to help the body make insulin, control food cravings,
and increase energy levels.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did MEDI0382 help lower the participants’ blood sugar levels?
• Did MEDI0382 affect the participants’ weight?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and women
who had type 2 diabetes and were overweight or had obesity. All of the participants were already
taking metformin. They were 19 to 82 years old when they joined.
2