Clinical Study Results
Research Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB
Treatment studied: Abediterol
Study title: A study to learn how abediterol acts in the blood of people with
asthma who are already taking a steroid inhaler treatment, and
if abediterol is safe to take
Thank you!
Thank you to the participants who took part in the clinical trial for the study treatment abediterol.
AstraZeneca AB sponsored this study and thinks it is important to share the results. An independent,
non-profit organization called CISCRP helped prepare this summary of the study results for you.
If you participated in this study and have questions about the results, please speak with the doctor or
staff at your study site.
What is happening with the study now?
The study started in September 2017 and ended in October 2017.
The sponsor reviewed the data collected when the study ended and created a report of the results.
This is a summary of that report.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat asthma. Before a treatment can be approved for
patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did abediterol act in the blood of the participants?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be done that help
find out if abediterol improves the health of people with asthma.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how an inhaler treatment of abediterol acts in the
blood of participants with asthma. Asthma is a disease that can cause swelling in the lungs, which
can make it difficult to breathe.
The participants in this study were already taking a steroid inhaler treatment. A steroid inhaler
treatment can help reduce swelling in the body. Abediterol is an inhaler treatment that may help
relax muscles in the lungs. The researchers in this study wanted to learn if an abediterol treatment
taken with a steroid treatment could help improve breathing by relaxing the muscles in the lungs and
reducing swelling.
1