Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. Researchers look at the results of many studies
to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information
or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
How did abediterol act in the blood of the participants?
In general, the researchers found that more abediterol reached the blood of the participants on
Day 9 compared to Day 1.
To answer this question, the researchers measured:
• the average amount of abediterol in the blood
• the highest amount of abediterol in the blood
• how long it took for abediterol to reach its highest amount in the blood
In general, the researchers found that on Day 9:
• The average amount of abediterol in the blood was 90.2 picogram hours per milliliter, also
known as h*pg/mL. This amount was 26.5 h*pg/mL on Day 1.
• The highest amount of abediterol in the blood was 8.1 picograms per milliliter, also known
as pg/mL. This amount was 3.8 pg/mL on Day 1.
It took 15 to 30 minutes for abediterol to reach its highest amount in the blood.
What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The medical problems that the participants had in this study are not in this summary. Because
there was a very small number of participants, leaving this information out helps protect their
identities.
The medical problems that participants have during clinical studies that the doctors think might be
related to the study treatment are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study treatment.
A lot of research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers learn how abediterol acts in the blood of participants with
asthma who are already taking a steroid inhaler treatment. It also helped researchers learn if
abediterol is safe to take.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one study. Other studies may provide
new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Further clinical studies with abediterol are planned.
3