Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat overweight and obese patients with type
2 diabetes. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical
studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if MEDI0382 works in a small number of
overweight and obese participants with type 2 diabetes. They also wanted to find out if
the participants had any medical problems during the study.
In patients with type 2 diabetes who are obese or overweight, a hormone known as
insulin does not work as well as it should. The body creates insulin to help control the
levels of sugar in the blood. The study drug MEDI0382 might help keep the body’s blood
sugar levels normal. MEDI0382 might also help reduce a person’s appetite and increase
the number of calories he or she burns, which could help with weight loss.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did MEDI0382 affect the blood sugar levels and weight of the participants?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of overweight and
obese men and women with type 2 diabetes. The participants in this study were 43 to
74 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other
study staff knew what treatment each participant received. Some studies are done this
way because knowing what treatment the participants are given can affect the results of
the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
The participants in this study were given either MEDI0382 or a placebo. A placebo looks
like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make
sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take a drug are actually caused by
the drug.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant was
given. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
2