Clinical Study Results
This period lasted up to 28 days. The study doctors may have asked the participants to stop taking
certain medicines. This was done to make sure that any effects seen during the study were due to
the treatment taken in the study.
During each treatment, the participants stayed at the study site between 3 and 5 days. The
study doctors:
• checked the participants’ overall health and took blood and urine samples
• asked the participants about any medicines they were taking, how their cancer affected their
ability to do daily activities, and how they were feeling
• checked the participants’ heart health using an ECG
Before the participants took AZD1775, the study doctors gave them anti-nausea medicine to help
prevent vomiting. This medicine was given through a needle into the participant’s vein, also called
an IV infusion. The participants did not eat or drink anything except water for at least 10 hours
before they got this medicine.
When the participants took AZD1775 with food, they ate a high-fat breakfast right after getting the
anti-nausea medicine. They took AZD1775 30 minutes after eating. They did not eat again for at
least 4 hours after taking AZD1775.
When the participants took AZD1775 without food, they took it on an empty stomach. They took
AZD1775 about 30 to 40 minutes after they got the anti-nausea medicine. They did not eat for at
least 4 hours after taking AZD1775.
There were 5 to 14 days between Part 1 and Part 2. During this time, the participants did not take
AZD1775 and certain other medicines. This was done to make sure that any effects seen during
each part of the study were due to the treatment taken in that part.
After treatment, the participants visited the study site 4 to 7 days after their last dose of
AZD1775 in Part 2. During this visit, some participants joined another study to continue taking
AZD1775. Those who did not join the other study returned to the study site again for a final visit.
This happened about 30 days after their last dose of AZD1775.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest for patients. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to
a doctor before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
3