Clinical Study Results
Research Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB
Drug Studied: AZD1775
Study Title: A study to learn if food affects the amount of AZD1775 in the blood of
patients with advanced solid tumors
Thank you!
Thank you to the participants who took part in this clinical trial for the study drug AZD1775.
AstraZeneca AB sponsored this study and thinks it is important to share the results. An independent
non-profit organization called CISCRP helped prepare this summary of the study results.
If you participated in this study and have questions about the results, please speak with the doctor
or staff at your study site.
What is happening with the study now?
This study started in September 2017 and ended in April 2018. The sponsor reviewed the data
collected when the study ended and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that
report. The study included 31 participants in France, the Netherlands, and the United Kingdom.
A total of 28 participants completed the study.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients with advanced solid tumors. Before a
drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it
is and how it works.
A solid tumor is a type of cancer that starts in an organ of the body, such as the brain or the
breast. “Advanced” usually means that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body or has
grown beyond the organ where it started. In advanced solid tumors, a protein called WEE1
helps the tumor to grow. AZD1775 stops WEE1 from working. This may cause the tumor to stop
growing and lead to tumor cells dying.
Researchers think that AZD1775 can help patients with advanced solid tumors by itself, or by
working with other cancer drugs to help stop tumors from growing. Other studies have shown
that giving AZD1775 with other cancer drugs can be more effective in killing tumor cells. This is
because AZD1775 makes tumor cells easier to target by other cancer drugs.
Food can change the way that a drug is taken up in the blood. Taking a drug with food can lead
to a higher or lower amount of a drug that gets into the blood. This could affect how well the drug
works in the body.
1