Clinical Study Results
The main questions that the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did taking AZD1775 with food affect the amount of AZD1775 in the blood?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be done that
help find out if AZD1775 improves the health of people with advanced solid tumors. The effect
of food on AZD1775 will be used to support future studies about the correct dose of AZD1775.
The researchers asked for the help of men and women with advanced solid tumors. For these
participants, previous treatments were no longer working, and no other standard treatments were
available. Participants were between 42 and 77 years old when they joined the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means that both the researchers and the participant knew
what treatment the participant was taking.
The study was done in 2 parts. For each part of the study, it was planned for all of the
participants to take each of the treatments below, but in a different order:
• AZD1775 with food
• AZD1775 without food
The participants took the same dose of AZD1775 capsules for each treatment.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the order that participants took each
treatment. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of the treatment is as accurate
as possible.
What happened during the study?
All 31 participants finished taking AZD1775 during Part 1 of the study. There were 3 participants
who stopped taking AZD1775 before starting Part 2 of the study. Their reasons for stopping were
not related to AZD1775. This means that only 28 participants finished both parts of the study.
Overall, among those who took at least 1 treatment, 30 participants took AZD1775 with food and
29 participants took AZD1775 without food.
Before the study started, the study doctors:
• checked the participants’ overall health and took blood and urine samples
• asked about the participants’ medical history, any medicines they were taking, and how their
cancer affected their ability to do daily activities
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
2