Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat solid tumors in patients with certain
types of cancer. Before a drug can be approved for people to take, researchers do
clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
Patients with solid tumors have a type of cancer in their bones, muscles, or organs that
does not contain any liquid areas. Researchers think the study drug AZD6094 can help
treat these tumors in the lungs and kidneys by stopping them from growing.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn how AZD6094 affects the electrical activity
of the heart. The electrical activity of the heart controls how fast or slow the heart beats.
Changes to the electrical activity of the heart can cause heartbeats to either speed up or
slow down. These changes can be dangerous, or even life-threatening.
Researchers compared AZD6094 to a placebo and to another drug called moxifloxacin.
A placebo looks like the study drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers
use a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take
a treatment are actually caused by that treatment.
Moxifloxacin is an antibiotic that is already approved for use. But, it affects the electrical
activity of the heart. In this study, participants took moxifloxacin so that the electrical
activity of the heart could be looked at by using a medicine that is known to affect it.
The effects of moxifloxacin were looked at but are not included as part of the study
results.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did AZD6094 affect the electrical activity of the heart?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be
done that help find out if AZD6094 improves the health of people with solid tumors.
The researchers asked for the help of healthy male volunteers. Everyone in the study
was 33 to 64 years old when they joined.
2