Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other
study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done this
way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results
of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
In this study, some of the participants took SZC by mouth as a powder mixed with water.
The other participants took a placebo by mouth as a powder mixed with water. A placebo
looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help
make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take the drug are actually
caused by the drug. The SZC doses were measured in grams, also called g.
During the study, the participants were also allowed to take a treatment chosen by the
doctors for their kidney failure. This treatment was called a “rescue treatment”. Doctors
use rescue treatments in studies if they think it can help participants manage their
disease without affecting the study results.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
took. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before the study started, the participants visited their study site 3 times. At these
visits, the doctors checked to make sure the participants could join the study. The doctors:
• did a physical examination
• took blood samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• checked the participants’ blood potassium levels
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what
medicines they were taking
During the study, the participants visited their study site 19 times over the course of
about 8 weeks. Each week, the participants:
• received hemodialysis treatment for 3 days
• took SZC or the placebo once a day on the other 4 days
• took rescue treatment if needed
3