Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if sodium zirconium cyclosilicate, also
called SZC, works in many participants who have kidney failure and high levels of
potassium in their blood. They also wanted to find out if the participants had any medical
problems during the study.
Potassium is found in many foods, such as bananas and potatoes. It helps the body
perform several important functions, including maintaining a normal blood pressure and
heart rhythm. When levels of potassium in the blood become too high, the body may not
be able to perform these functions well. This can lead to medical problems.
A common cause of high potassium levels is kidney failure. Healthy kidneys remove
toxins and potassium from the body through urine, which keeps potassium at normal
levels in the blood. In people who have kidney failure, the kidneys may not be able to
remove these substances. This can lead to high blood potassium levels. Researchers
think that SZC may be able to help lower blood potassium levels by helping the body get
rid of potassium through stool.
In earlier studies, researchers found that SZC lowered potassium levels in a large
number of participants who had kidney failure and high blood potassium levels. In this
study, the researchers wanted to find out how SZC works in participants with high blood
potassium levels and kidney failure who need hemodialysis treatment. In this treatment, a
patient is attached to a machine that acts like healthy kidneys to remove substances from
his or her body.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants’ blood potassium levels become normal after taking SZC?
• What new medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of people with
high potassium levels and kidney failure who had been getting hemodialysis for at least 3
months before joining the study. The men and women in this study were 20 to 86 years old.
2