Clinical Study Results
After treatment, the participants visited the study center 1 more time. The doctors
asked how they were feeling and took blood and urine samples.
There were 36 participants in this study, but only 35 participants completed the study.
The figure below shows how the study was done.
Participants took both treatments during the study
Part 1 Part 2
After study
Once a day, 36 Participants did Once a day, 35
Before treatment
participants took not take any participants took
treatment RDEA3170 and study treatment RDEA3170 and The participants
Doctors checked febuxostat plus: for febuxostat plus: visited their trial site
the health of 1 final time so that
Dapagliflozin 1 to 3 weeks Dapagliflozin
participants the doctors could
OR between Part 1 OR
check their health
Placebo and Part 2 Placebo
Up to 4 weeks 1 week 1 week Up to 1 week
Up to 5 weeks
Up to 10 weeks
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant
had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the
researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of the
summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these
websites.
Researchers usually need the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results.
Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did the study treatments change the amount of uric acid in blood and urine?
Overall, both of the treatments decreased the amount of uric acid in blood after 1 week.
Because the amount of uric acid was so much lower in the blood, the amount of uric
acid that left the body in urine was also lower after 1 week of treatment. However,
the differences between the treatments were too small to know if taking RDEA3170,
febuxostat, and dapagliflozin decreased the amount of uric acid in urine more than taking
RDEA3170, febuxostat, and a placebo.
4