Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients with advanced solid tumors.
Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to find
out how safe it is and how it works.
A solid tumor is a type of cancer that starts in an organ of the body. “Advanced” usually
means that the cancer has spread to other parts of the body or has grown beyond the
organ where it started. In people with advanced solid tumors, certain proteins cause the
tumor to grow. Adavosertib was designed to stop one of these proteins from letting the
tumor grow and to cause tumor cells to die.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out about the safety of adavosertib in
participants with advanced solid tumors.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants’ safety results change after taking adavosertib?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be done
that help find out if adavosertib improves the health of people with advanced solid tumors.
The researchers asked for the help of men and women with advanced solid tumors who
had already completed another study with adavosertib. The participants were 42 to 83
years old when they joined the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participants knew
what the participants were taking. In this study, all of the participants took adavosertib as
a tablet by mouth. The dose of adavosertib was 300 milligrams, also called mg.
Treatment in this study happened in 21-day periods called “cycles”. The participants took
1 dose of adavosertib on Days 1 through 5 of each cycle, and Days 8 through 12 of each
cycle.
Day 1 2 3 4 5 6 7 8 9 10 11 12 13 14 15 16 17 18 19 20 21
300 mg
         
adavosertib
The participants also took a medication to help them if they felt sick on these days.
2