Clinical Study Results
In people with type 2 diabetes, a hormone known as insulin does not work as well
as it should. Insulin is made by the pancreas and controls the levels of sugar in the
blood. If someone’s blood sugar levels are too high or too low, he or she can have
medical problems. MEDI0382 was developed to help control blood sugar levels in
people with type 2 diabetes, which could help reduce their medical problems.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the 2 forms of MEDI0382 act in a similar way in the participants’ blood?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study from the 2 forms
of MEDI0382?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can
be done that help find out if the 2 forms of MEDI0382 improve the health of people
with type 2 diabetes.
The researchers asked for the help of healthy men and women. Everyone in the
study was between 20 and 41 years old when they joined the study.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means that the researchers and the
participants knew what drug the participants got during the study.
All of the participants got both forms of MEDI0382, but in a different order. The
participants got both forms in an injection. The forms that were given in this study
were called Form 2 and Form 3. Researchers have developed another form of
MEDI0382, called Form 1, but that form was not used in this study.
Form 2 had been given to healthy participants and participants with type 2 diabetes
in earlier studies with MEDI0382. This form was developed to be given in a single
injection.
Form 3 had never been given to any participants. This form was developed to be
given in multiple injections.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the order in which the
participants got the 2 study treatments. This helps make sure the groups are
chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each treatment
is as accurate as possible.
2