Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before getting MEDI0382, the participants visited their study site 1 time. At this
visit, the study doctors did certain tests to make sure the participants could join
the study.
Then, the participants got MEDI0382. During treatment, the participants
visited their study site 2 times. They got a different form of MEDI0382 at each of
these visits.
After the first treatment visit, the participants waited 1 week before taking the next
form. During this week, the study doctors asked the participants not to take certain
medicines. This was done so that all of the MEDI0382 and any other medicines
could leave the participants’ bodies before they got their second injection.
After the 1 week, the participants visited their study site 1 more time and got the
other form of MEDI0382.
Throughout the study, the study doctors checked the participants’ overall health
and blood sugar levels and asked them how they were feeling.
At the end of the study, the participants visited their study site 1 more time.
During this visit, the study doctors checked the participants’ overall health and
blood sugar levels again and asked them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each of
the participants had might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are the safest to take. Other studies may provide new information or
different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study
results.
There was 1 participant who left the study before taking a second treatment.
Because of this, some of the results below include only 23 of the 24 participants.
The participant left the study because of a medical problem that the researchers
did not think was related to MEDI0382.
3