Clinical Study Results
Many patients with type 2 diabetes are given blood thinners to decrease blood clot
formation and heart medicine to control blood pressure and heart rate. So, in this study, the
researchers wanted to learn if MEDI0382 affected the body’s ability to control blood clotting
and heart rate in healthy people who were given blood thinners and heart medicine.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• What effect did MEDI0382 have on the body’s ability to clot blood?
• What effect did MEDI0382 have on participants’ heart rates while they used a treadmill?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies
to find out how the drug works in the body and to ensure it is safe. Researchers are
looking for a better way to treat people with type 2 diabetes who are taking blood
thinners and heart medicine.
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of healthy men and
women. The participants in this study were 18 to 43 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and participants knew the
medicine the participants were taking.
All of the participants in the study got MEDI0382, a blood thinner called warfarin, and a
heart medicine called esmolol to control blood pressure.
MEDI0382 was given in a subcutaneous injection. A subcutaneous injection means that the
injection is given under the skin. Warfarin was taken as a pill by mouth. Esmolol was given
through a needle in the vein, also called an intravenous infusion or an IV.
What happened during the study?
In order for researchers to understand how warfarin and esmolol work in the body, both
with MEDI0382 and without, participants took each medicine alone and in combination
with MEDI0382.
Before treatment, the study doctors checked the participants’ health to make sure they
could join the study. They asked the participants to give blood and urine samples and run
on a treadmill.
During treatment, the participants visited their study site up to 13 times over the course
of 32 days. At different times during this period, the participants were given MEDI0382,
warfarin, and esmolol.
2