Clinical Study Results
Throughout the study, the doctors checked the participants’ heart rates, how well their
blood was clotting, how much MEDI0382 was in their blood, and recorded new medical
conditions.
After treatment, all of the participants visited their study site once. During this visit, the
study doctors checked the participants’ heart rates, how well their blood was clotting,
and how much MEDI0382 was still in their blood. The study doctors also checked the
participants’ overall health and asked them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and
are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a
doctor before making any treatment changes.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
What effect did MEDI0382 have on the body’s ability to clot blood?
Overall, MEDI0382 did not affect the body’s ability to clot blood. There was little difference
in how well participants’ bodies clotted blood when they got only warfarin compared to
when they got warfarin and MEDI0382 together.
To answer this question, the researchers used a widely accepted test called the
international normalized ratio, also called the INR. The INR is a scientific formula that
combines several different measurements to track how well a person’s body clots blood.
The researchers measured:
• the average of the highest INR scores that participants had during the study
• the total combined INR score that participants had over the course of 144 hours
A higher INR score means that the body takes longer to clot blood. A healthy person who
does not take blood thinners should have an INR score of about 1.0. A person who takes
blood thinners, such as warfarin, may have an INR score between 1.0 and 3.0.
There were 3 participants who left the study before it was finished. There were 2
participants who left the study for personal reasons, and 1 participant who left the study
because of a medical problem. So, the researchers could only study the INR results for
19 of the 22 participants.
3