Clinical Study Results
Did adavosertib affect the length of time of the participants’ heartbeats?
No, adavosertib did not affect the length time of the participants’ heartbeats.
To answer this question, the researchers measured the length of time between
heartbeats using an ECG during Part B of the study. This was done before and after
the participants took adavosertib. The difference before and after taking adavosertib was
small enough for the researchers to conclude that adavosertib did not affect the length of
time of the participants’ heartbeats.
What medical problems did participants have during
the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study
that the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments. These medical
problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious”
when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatments. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
The results below only include information for the 30 participants who took at least one
dose of adavosertib.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
There were 3.3% of participants who had serious adverse reactions during the study. This
was 1 out of 30 participants.
The serious adverse reactions that happened in this participant during the study were a
kidney injury and inflammation of the pancreas.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
Overall, there were 83.3% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study.
This was 25 out of 30 participants who took adavosertib.
• There were 63.3% of participants who had adverse reactions in Part A. This was
19 out of 30 participants.
• There were 52.4% of participants who had adverse reactions in Part B. This was
11 out of 21 participants.
9