Clinical Study Results
Albuterol sulfate, also known as albuterol, is a standard treatment for asthma. It works by relaxing
muscles in the breathing tubes to allow more air into the lungs. This makes it easier to breathe.
Albuterol is given to asthma patients in an inhaler that delivers a specific amount of medication to
the lungs. The inhaler is known as a metered dose inhaler. One of the current asthma treatments is
called Proventil HFA, also known as Proventil. This treatment also contains albuterol. In this study,
AS MDI contains a different formulation of albuterol compared to the current treatment.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how different doses of AS MDI work in people
with asthma.
The main questions researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How much air could the participants breathe out after taking AS MDI?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, researchers asked for the help of males and females
who had asthma for at least 6 months and did not have any other lung condition or infection.
The participants in this study were 13 to 64 years old.
What kind of study was this?
There were 2 parts in this study; both parts happened at the same time:
One part of this study was “double-blind”. This means none of the participants, doctors
or other study staff knew what treatment each participant took in this part. Some studies are
done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the
results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
In this part of the study the participants took AS MDI or placebo. A placebo looks like a drug
but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help make sure any of the
effects they see in the participants who take a treatment are actually caused by the treatment.
The other part of the study was “open-label”. This means that the participants, doctors
or other study staff knew what the participants were taking. In this part of the study the
participants took the standard Proventil asthma treatment.
All of the participants took AS MDI, Proventil, and the placebo during the study. Doses were
measured in micrograms, also called µg. At each visit, participants took 1 of the 5 treatments,
then at the next study visit, switched treatment:
• Placebo
• AS MDI 90 µg
• AS MDI 180 µg
• Proventil 90 µg
• Proventil 180 µg
2