Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participant knew
what the participant was taking.
The participants in this study took both AS MDI and Proventil. The researchers wanted
to learn how AS MDI affected participants’ lungs compared with Proventil.
The doses of the treatments the participants received was measured in micrograms,
also called µg. All the participants received:
• AS MDI in doses of 90 µg, then 180 µg, then 360 µg, then 720 µg, and finally 1440 µg.
• Proventil in doses of 90 µg, then 180 µg, then 360 µg, then 720 µg, and finally 1440 µg.
Each puff of both inhalers was a 90 µg dose. So, taking more puffs gave higher doses.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the order that participants received
each treatment. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this
so that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before study treatment, the doctors checked your overall health to make sure you
could join the study. They asked about your medical history, how you were feeling,
and what medications you were taking. They took blood and urine samples from you.
If the doctors found that you were able to join the study, they asked you to stop any
treatments you were taking for asthma. This helped the doctors make sure any effects
they saw during treatment were due to the treatments in this study.
During study treatment, you and the other participants visited your study site 2
times. At one of the visits you took AS MDI. At the other visit, you took Proventil. You
waited 3 to 7 days between taking treatments.
At each visit, the doctors or study staff measured the amount of air that you could
breathe out before and after you took the treatment. They also measured your blood
pressure, heart rhythm, blood glucose, and potassium levels. They asked how you
were feeling.
After study treatment, the doctors called you to see how you were feeling.
3