The researchers then compared the FACT-O TOI scores before the participants
took olaparib, which was at the start of the study, with the FACT-O TOI scores
during study treatment. Any increase in the FACT-O TOI score from the start of
the study meant that a participant’s health-related quality of life had improved
since they started olaparib. A decrease of 10 points or more from the start of the
study at any time during study treatment meant that their health-related quality
of life had gotten worse since they started olaparib. Participants could have had
both an improvement in their health-related quality of life as well as a worsening
while taking olaparib.
Not all of the participants completed the questionnaires. So, the results below are
for the 249 participants who completed the questionnaires.
Overall, the researchers found that:
X 64.3% of the participants had an improvement in their health-related quality
of life, which was an increase in their FACT-O TOI score, at some point while
they were taking olaparib. This was 160 of the 249 participants.
X 42.6% of the participants reported a worsening of their health-related quality
of life, which was a decrease of at least 10 points in their FACT-O TOI score,
at some point while they were taking olaparib. This was 106 of the 249
participants.
What medical problems happened during this
study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during
the study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug.
These medical problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction
is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or
requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. These
adverse reactions have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of
the available data for olaparib.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about
adverse reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
8 | Clinical Study Results