What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall as of October 2020.
The results each participant had might be different and are not in this summary.
A full list of the questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the
websites listed at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is
available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
When the participants took olaparib, how long did the participants live
with their cancer before it got worse?
To answer this question, the study doctors took pictures of the participants’ tumors
using MRI or CT scans. To measure tumor growth, they used a set of rules called
Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors, also known as RECIST. Then, the
researchers calculated the number of months between when the participants
started taking olaparib and when their cancer started spreading, growing, or
coming back, or the participants died. The researchers calculated the median
number of months that the participants lived with their cancer until it got worse.
The median number of months is when half of the participants are still alive and
their cancer hasn’t gotten worse.
Overall, the researchers found that when the participants took olaparib, the
median amount of time they lived before their cancer got worse was 9.2 months.
Did the participants have any change in their quality of life when they
took olaparib?
To answer this question, the participants completed a questionnaire asking them
how they were feeling throughout the study. This questionnaire was called the
Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy – Ovarian, also known as FACT-O. The
researchers used the participants’ answers from the FACT-O questionnaire to get a
score called FACT-O Trial Outcome Index, also known as FACT-O TOI.
7 | Clinical Study Results