Clinical Study Results
MEDI0382 is being developed to treat T2DM. It is designed to act like hormones in
the body that control blood sugar levels and appetite. There are treatments available
for T2DM that focus on lowering blood sugar levels, but most of these do not reduce
appetite. Researchers think that MEDI0382 might help treat T2DM by lowering blood
sugar levels and reducing appetite. Reducing appetite may help with weight loss,
which can be helpful for people with T2DM.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out about the safety of MEDI0382 in
participants who were overweight who did not have T2DM. The main questions the
researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did MEDI0382 affect the participants’ safety?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be
done that help find out if MEDI0382 improves the health of people with T2DM.
The researchers asked for the help of healthy men and women who were
overweight or obese and who were of Japanese or Chinese descent. Everyone in
the study was between 27 and 59 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means neither the participants nor the study
doctor knew which treatment the participants got.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
got. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that
comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
In this study, the participants got MEDI0382 or a placebo. A placebo looks like
a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help
make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who get the treatment are
actually caused by the treatment.
Both MEDI0382 and the placebo were given as injections under the skin.
The doses of MEDI0382 were measured in micrograms, also called μg. The
participants could get 1 of the following doses of MEDI0382: 50 µg, 100 μg, or
150 μg. Originally, the researchers planned for some participants to get a dose of
200 µg, but researchers decided not to continue with this part of the study and did
not recruit any participants to get this dose of MEDI0382.
2