Clinical Study Results
Who took part in the study?
The researchers asked for the help of men and women at increased risk of having a
stroke. The participants in this study were 40 to 100 years old when they joined.
The study included 11,016 participants in 28 countries or regions: Argentina, Australia,
Belgium, Brazil, Bulgaria, Canada, China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany,
Hungary, Hong Kong, India, Italy, Mexico, Peru, Poland, Romania, Russia, Saudi Arabia,
Slovakia, South Korea, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, Thailand, Ukraine, and Vietnam.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to prevent stroke in people at increased risk of
having a stroke. Before a drug can be approved for people to take, researchers do clinical
studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
The participants in this study all had “acute cerebral ischemia”. This means that an area
of their brain was damaged either from having a stroke or temporarily losing function from
a “transient ischemic attack”, also called a TIA. Stroke and TIAs happen when there is a
problem with the blood supply to the brain, such as a blood clot. This can cause sudden
stroke symptoms, such as slurred speech and muscle weakness in the face, arms,
and legs that can be long-lasting. A TIA happens when stroke-like symptoms disappear
in minutes or hours. People who have recently had acute cerebral ischemia are at
increased risk of having further strokes or TIAs.
People who may be at increased risk of having a stroke include those who:
• have had a recent stroke or TIA
• are older than 55 years old
• smoke
• have high blood pressure or high cholesterol
• have diabetes
• have other existing blood or heart problems
There are treatments for prevention of strokes, but these treatments may not always help
people at increased risk of having a stroke. The study drug, ticagrelor, was designed to
stop blood clots from forming. Researchers think this drug may help prevent strokes from
happening in people at increased risk of having a stroke.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if ticagrelor works in a large number of
participants who are at increased risk of having strokes. They also wanted to find out if
the participants had any serious medical problems during the study.
3