Clinical Study Results
What adverse events did participants have?
The most common adverse event was a red, itchy rash caused by direct contact with a
substance or surface. This happened in:
• 29.2% of participants taking AZD5718. This was 7 out of 24 participants.
• 50% of participants taking a placebo. This was 4 out of 8 participants.
The rest of this section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had
during the study that the doctors thought might be related to the study treatment. These
medical problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatment. A lot of
research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about
adverse reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
None of the participants had a serious adverse reaction during the study.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
There were 3.1% of the participants who had an adverse reaction during the study. This
was 1 out of 32 participants. The adverse reaction was constipation, and it happened in
a participant taking the placebo.
None of the participants who took AZD5718 had an adverse reaction.
How has this study helped participants and
researchers?
The results from this study helped the researchers learn more about the safety of AZD5718
in healthy Japanese participants. The results will help researchers make decisions about
using AZD5718 to treat patients with heart disease and the dose to use in future studies.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one study. Other
studies may provide new information or different results.
Further clinical studies with AZD5718 are ongoing and planned.
5