Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before treatment, the study doctors checked the participants’ health to make sure they
could join the study. Throughout the study, the doctors continued taking blood and urine
samples from the participants and checking the participants’ health.
In Part A, the participants stayed at their study site for 10 days. On different days, they
took 1 of the 4 different AZD9977 forms. The participants did not eat food for at least
10 hours before they took AZD9977.
After Part A, the participants left their study site for 2 days. During this time, the
participants were asked not to take certain medicines. This was done so that AZD9977
and any other medicines would completely leave their bodies before Part B.
In Part B, the participants stayed at their study site for 4 days. They took Pill 1 once after
eating a meal.
After Part B, the participants visited their study site once more so the doctors could check
their health and ask them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The individual results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions
the researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this
summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on these
websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk
to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about how different forms of AZD9977
act in the body. This information could help future researchers learn which forms of
AZD9977 might be most effective in treating patients with heart failure.
The following results are for 11 of the 13 participants. This is because 2 participants
chose to leave the study before the researchers could review all of the study results.
The 2 participants left the study for personal reasons and not because of any medical
problems.
3