Clinical Study Results
Heart failure is a condition in which the heart does not pump blood throughout the body
as well as it should. This can lead to several medical problems, such as changes in the
shape of the heart and how well it works, damage to the heart muscle, and fluid build-up
in the lungs and legs. AZD9977 is being developed to treat these medical problems, which
may help improve heart health.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about how different forms of AZD9977
act in the body. This information could help future researchers learn which forms of AZD9977
might be most effective in treating patients with heart failure. To do this, the researchers
compared 3 different AZD9977 pills to each other and to a liquid form of AZD9977.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Were the AZD9977 levels in the blood similar when the participants took the different
forms of the drug?
• Were the AZD9977 levels in the blood similar when the drug was taken with and
without food?
• What medical problems happened during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of healthy men.
The participants in this study were 22 to 47 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was an “open-label” study. This means the researchers and the participants knew
what the participants were taking. All of the participants took AZD9977.
In Part A, all of the participants took 4 different forms of AZD9977 by mouth without food.
There was 1 liquid form and 3 pill forms:
• A liquid form that released AZD9977 into the blood right away
• Pill 1, which released AZD9977 into the blood right away
• Pill 2, which released AZD9977 into the blood slowly over time
• Pill 3, which released AZD9977 into the blood very slowly over time
All of the participants took each form of AZD9977, but in different orders. A computer
program was used to randomly choose the order in which each participant took the
different forms of AZD9977. This helps make sure the order of treatments for each
participant is chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of each
treatment is as accurate as possible.
In Part B, all of the participants took Pill 1 once after eating a meal.
2