Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have type 2 diabetes and are
overweight or have obesity. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do
clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out how MEDI0382 affects the blood sugar levels in
participants who have type 2 diabetes and are overweight or have obesity.
These participants were also taking either metformin alone or metformin and dapagliflozin
together. Both of these treatments are commonly used by doctors to help people who have type
2 diabetes control their disease. In people who have type 2 diabetes, the body does not respond
to insulin as well as it should. Insulin is a hormone made by the pancreas that controls the levels
of sugar in the blood. If a person’s blood sugar levels become too high, he or she can have
medical problems.
Metformin works by decreasing the amount of blood sugar that the liver releases and makes the
body better respond to insulin. Dapagliflozin works by helping the body remove sugar through
the urine. But, these drugs taken together may not help some people who have type 2 diabetes.
They may also cause medical problems in some people.
The study drug, MEDI0382, is being developed to increase the body’s ability to make insulin.
Researchers think that MEDI0382 taken with metformin and dapagliflozin may help people who
have type 2 diabetes control their blood sugar levels.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did MEDI0382 help lower the participants’ blood sugar levels?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer these questions, the researchers asked for the help of men and women who had type
2 diabetes and were overweight or had obesity. These participants were already taking either
metformin or metformin and dapagliflozin together. The participants in this study were 41 to 74
years old when they joined.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or other study staff
knew what treatment each participant got. Some studies are done this way because knowing
what treatment the participants are getting can affect the results of the study. When the study
ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the participants got so they could create
a report of the study results.
In this study, the participants got either MEDI0382 or a placebo through a needle under the
skin, also called an injection. A placebo looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it.
Researchers use a placebo to help make sure that any of the effects they see in the participants
who get the study drug are caused by the study drug. The MEDI0382 doses were measured in
micrograms, also called μg.
2