What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed
at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it
can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
What signs and symptoms did the participants have during the study?
To answer this question, the study doctors did tests and measurements before
and after the participants got AZD8601. The doctors did physical exams and
tested the participants’ blood and urine samples to check their overall health.
They also checked the participants’ heart health using special tests and scans.
Some of these scans also measured how well the participants’ hearts were
pumping out blood.
Overall, the researchers found that from the start of the study there were
some small changes in the results of these tests and measurements. But, the
researchers did not consider these changes to be meaningful.
The study doctors also kept track of the “adverse events” that the participants
had. An adverse event is any sign or symptom that participants have during a
study. Doctors keep track of all the adverse events that happen in studies, even
if they do not think the adverse events might be related to the study treatment.
Adverse events may or may not be caused by the treatments in the study. A lot
of research is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse event.
The adverse events that the participants had during this study are not in this
summary. Because there was a very small number of participants, leaving this
information out helps protect their identities. None of the participants had any
adverse events that resulted in death.
6 | Clinical Study Results