Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before the participants started taking AZD5718, the doctors did a physical exam
and asked participants about their medical history. They checked participants’ heart
health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG.
In Part 1 of the study, the participants stayed at the study site for at least 15 days.
Each participant took the 5 different formulations of AZD5718. They waited at least 3
days after taking 1 formulation before they took the next formulation. The participants
fasted for at least 10 hours before they took each formulation. This meant that the
participants did not eat or drink anything except water for at least 10 hours before
taking each treatment. Participants were allowed to have water up until 1 hour before
taking each treatment. The researchers wanted to learn how much AZD5718 got into
the blood for each formulation of AZD5718. They compared the new formulations that
had not been tested in other studies with the formulation that had been tested before.
Based on what they learned, they chose 1 of the new formulations of AZD5718 and
used this formulation in Part 2.
In Part 2 of the study, the participants stayed at the study site for at least 4 days.
Each participant took the formulation of AZD5718 that was chosen from Part 1. But this
time they took it right after eating a meal. The researchers wanted to learn if there was
a change in how much AZD5718 got into the blood when the formulation they chose
from Part 1 was taken with food.
Throughout the study, the doctors took blood and urine samples. They also asked
participants about any medications they were taking and any medical problems they
were having.
The figure below shows how the study was done.
Open-label study: 14 participants
Before treatment Part 1 Part 2 After treatment
Doctors did a 14 participants 14 participants Participants
physical exam, All participants took All participants took returned to the
took blood and all 5 formulations of 1 formulation of study site about
urine samples, AZD5718 without food AZD5718 again 1 week
and checked with food later for a
3 days between
participants’ final visit
treatments Participants stayed at
heart health
the study site
Participants stayed
at the study site
15 days 4 days
3