Clinical Study Results
The researchers compared the participants’ heart strain percentage before they got any
treatment to their heart strain percentage at the end of the study. They then calculated the
average change in heart strain percentage. They compared the change in the participants
who took dapagliflozin and the change in those who took the placebo.
The researchers found that there was a small change in the heart strain percentage in
both groups. But, the differences between the groups were too small for the researchers
to conclude that dapagliflozin affected the function of the heart.
What medical problems did the participants have during
the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the
study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. These medical
problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious”
when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of research
is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during the study.
None of the participants died due to serious adverse reactions during the study.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
None of the participants had adverse reactions during the study.
None of the participants stopped treatment because of adverse reactions.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers learn more about how dapagliflozin affects the heart in
participants with T2DM.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and
are safest. This summary shows only the main results from this one study. Other results
from this study, as well as future studies may provide new information or different results.
Further clinical studies with this study drug are planned.
5