Clinical Study Results
A computer program was used to randomly choose the group each participant was in. This
helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the
results of each group is as accurate as possible.
In this study, 27 participants were in the dapagliflozin group and 26 participants were in the
placebo group.
Not every participant took study treatment or completed the study.
• There was 1 participant who did not take dapagliflozin and 1 participant who left the
study early and did not finish getting the study treatment.
• There were 2 participants who took placebo whose information was not included in
the study results because the study instructions were not followed properly.
So, their information is not included here and the results below include information for the
49 participants who completed the study.
What happened during the study?
Before the participants took study treatment, the participants visited their study site
1 time. At this visit, the doctors checked the overall health of the participants to make sure
they could join the study.
The doctors:
• did a physical exam
• took blood samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an echocardiogram, if not done recently
at the hospital, and an electrocardiogram
• asked about the participants’ health and medications
During the study, the participants visited their study site 2 times. At the first visit, the
participants got the dapagliflozin or placebo tablets to take home. The participants took
1 tablet each day at home for 6 weeks. The second visit was at the end of the 6 weeks.
At each visit, the doctors:
• did a physical exam
• did an MRI scan, also known as a magnetic resonance imaging scan, and a CT scan,
also known as computerized tomography scan, to check the heart
• took blood and urine samples
The participants also received a phone call from the doctors in week 2 of the study,
between the visits. This was done to check on the participants’ overall health.
3