Clinical Study Results
After the participants took the last study treatment, they received a phone call
1 week afterwards from the doctors to ask about their overall health.
Before the participants After the participants
During the study
took study treatment took study treatment
• The doctors checked to • The participants visited • The doctors called the
make sure the participants their study site at the participants to ask about
could join the study and beginning and end of the their overall health
checked their overall health study
• At home, the participants
took 1 tablet a day for 6
weeks
• At the visits, the doctors did
MRI and CT scans and blood
tests to check the
participants’ health
Up to 3 weeks Up to 6 weeks Up to 1 week
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results of each
participant might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions
researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this
summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also be found on
these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best
and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk
to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
How did dapagliflozin affect the function of the heart?
Overall, there were some changes in heart function in the participants who had taken
dapagliflozin. But, the differences between these participants and the participants who
had taken the placebo was too small for the researchers to know how dapagliflozin
affected the function of the heart.
The researchers took pictures of each participant’s heart using MRI and CT. To learn how
the heart was working, they used a measurement called the global longitudinal strain of
the left ventricle, also called GLSLV or heart strain.
Heart strain, is a measurement of the shape and length of the heart muscle and how well
it contracts. It is measured as a percentage. A change in heart strain percentage can
mean there is a change in heart function.
4