Overview of this study
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat advanced bladder cancer that can
no longer be removed by surgery. Before a treatment can be approved for people
to get, researchers do clinical studies to find out how well it works and how safe it is.
What treatments did the participants get?
The participants in this study got either durvalumab and olaparib, or durvalumab and a
placebo. A placebo looks like a treatment but does not have any medicine in it.
What were the results of this study?
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
X Did durvalumab and olaparib together help the participants live longer
with their cancer before it got worse?
No. The researchers compared the results for the participants who got
durvalumab and olaparib with the results for those who got durvalumab and
the placebo. Overall, the researchers found that the participants who got
durvalumab and olaparib did not live longer with their cancer before it got
worse, compared to the participants who got durvalumab and the placebo.
X Did the participants feel that getting durvalumab and olaparib together
helped with their symptoms and quality of life?
The researchers compared the results for the participants who got durvalumab
and olaparib with the results for those who got durvalumab and the placebo.
Overall, the researchers found that there were no meaningful differences in the
symptoms and quality of life between the participants who got durvalumab and
olaparib and the participants who got durvalumab and the placebo.
X What medical problems did the participants have during this study?
There were 66.4% of participants who had medical problems that the study
doctors thought might be related to the study treatments during the study. The
most common medical problem was having low levels of red blood cells, also
called anemia.
More details about the results of this study are included later in this summary.
Where can I learn more about this study?
You can find more information about this study on the websites listed on the last
page. When a full report of the study results is available, it also can be found on
these websites.
2 | Clinical Study Results