Who took part in this study?
The researchers asked for the help of men and women with advanced bladder
cancer that could no longer be removed by surgery. The participants in this study
were 45 to 89 years old when they joined. All of the participants were not able to
get a type of chemotherapy known as platinum-based chemotherapy because of
safety problems with the chemotherapy.
The study included 154 participants in Canada, Russia, South Korea, Spain,
Taiwan, the United States, and Vietnam.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people who have advanced
bladder cancer that can no longer be removed by surgery. Before a treatment can
be approved for people to get, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it
works and how safe it is.
Advanced bladder cancer that can no longer be removed by surgery is called
“unresectable stage 4 urothelial cancer”. This includes cancer in other parts of the
body near the bladder, such as the urinary tract. In people with cancer, the body
is not able to control the growth of some cells. The extra cells can form tumors.
When cancer progresses to an advanced stage, tumors spread to other parts of
the body or grow beyond the organ where they started. Sometimes, there are too
many tumors, or they are too difficult to remove by surgery.
Normally, the immune system can help stop tumors from growing. But, in some
cases, the proteins on the tumor cells can interact with certain proteins on the
immune cells. This may stop the immune cells from recognizing the tumor cells
and being able to attack them.
The study drug durvalumab was designed to stop the tumor cells from interacting
with some of these proteins on the immune cells. This lets the immune cells
recognize the tumor cells again so the immune system can attack them.
Durvalumab is available in some countries for other types of cancers. The study
drug olaparib was designed to help stop the tumor cells from being able to repair
3 | Clinical Study Results