What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed
at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it
can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did durvalumab and olaparib together help the participants live longer
with their cancer before it got worse?
No. The researchers compared the results for the participants who got durvalumab
and olaparib with the results for those who got durvalumab and the placebo.
Overall, the researchers found that the participants who got durvalumab and
olaparib did not live longer with their cancer before it got worse.
To answer this question, the study doctors took pictures of the participants’ tumors
using MRI or CT scans. MRI scans are also known as magnetic resonance imaging
scans, and CT scans are also known as computed tomography scans. To measure
tumor growth, they used a set of rules called Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid
Tumors, also known as RECIST. Then, the researchers counted the number of
months from when the participants started study treatment to when their cancer
started spreading or growing.
Overall, the researchers found that the average number of months until the
participants’ cancer got worse was:
X 4.2 months for the participants who got durvalumab and olaparib
X 3.5 months for the participants who got durvalumab and the placebo
Then, the researchers calculated the risk of the participants’ cancer getting worse
after starting study treatment. They compared the risk for the participants who got
durvalumab and olaparib to the risk for the participants who got durvalumab and
the placebo.
7 | Clinical Study Results