Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
All participants were healthy men and women between the ages of 19 and 48 years.
Before participants stayed at the study site, the doctors did a physical exam and took blood and urine
samples to make sure they could participate in the study.
Participants stayed at the study site up to 26 days. The doctors checked participants’ blood pressure,
heart rate, and body temperature. They also took more blood samples to measure the amount of lesinurad
and allopurinol in the blood.
Participants took study drugs on Day 1, Day 8, Day 15, and Day 22. On each of these days, they
took either Treatment A or Treatment B:
• Treatment A: One combined tablet of lesinurad and allopurinol taken on an empty stomach.
• Treatment B: One tablet of lesinurad and one tablet of allopurinol taken on an empty stomach.
All of the participants took each treatment twice. The order that the treatments were taken was different for
each group. The researchers used a computer program to randomly choose the order.
Participants stayed at the study site from Day 1 until Day 26. They went back to the study site for a follow
up visit around Day 29, about a week after their last dose of study drug. At this last visit, study doctors did
a physical exam, took blood and urine samples, and did an ECG to check the heart health of participants.
Study doctors also asked questions about any medical problems participants were having and other drugs
they were taking.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had might be
different and may not be in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted to answer can be
found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study results is available, it can
also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are safest. Other
studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor before making any
treatment changes.
2