Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat infants and toddlers who have
sickle cell disease, also called SCD. Before a drug can be approved for patients to
take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
SCD is a blood disease that starts at birth and affects red blood cells. Red blood
cells are round, disc-shaped cells that help move oxygen throughout the body.
In people who have SCD, the red blood cells are thin, curved, and shaped like a
farming tool known as a “sickle”. Researchers refer to these abnormally shaped
cells as “sickle cells”. Because of their shape, sickle cells can get stuck in blood
vessels throughout the body. This can cause pain and damage to parts of the body.
Current treatments for SCD are used to help the body make new red blood cells
and stop sickle cells from getting stuck in blood vessels. But in some people, these
treatments may not work as well as in other people. They may also cause medical
problems.
The study drug, ticagrelor, was designed to stop blood cells from sticking together,
which may help blood flow normally throughout the body. Ticagrelor has been
studied in older children and adults, but not in infants or toddlers. Researchers
think that ticagrelor may be able to help infants and toddlers who have SCD by
stopping their red blood cells from getting stuck in blood vessels.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about how ticagrelor acted in
the body. They also wanted to know if the participants had any medical problems
during the study.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How did ticagrelor act in the blood?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can
be done that help find out if ticagrelor improves the health of infants and toddlers
who have SCD.
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked caregivers for the
help of their infants and toddlers who have SCD. The infants and toddlers in the
study were 3 to 21 months old when they joined.
2