2. Who sponsored this study?
Who was the sponsor of the study?
Amgen Inc.
One Amgen Center Drive
Thousand Oaks, CA 91320-1799 USA
Phone (United States): +1 805-447-1000
Phone (Australia): 1800 803 638
Amgen Inc is the manufacturer of denosumab, which is one of the drugs included in the
study.
Amgen would like to thank everyone who participated in this study and feels that it is
important to share the study results.
3. General information about the clinical trial
What is osteoporosis? devorppA
 Osteoporosis is a disease that weakens your bones and makes them more likely to
fracture or break. Osteoporosis is common in older women who are postmenopausal
(i.e. the time in a woman’s life after her period stops). This type of osteoporosis is
called postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO).
How is osteoporosis treated?
 People with osteoporosis often take a medicine called a bisphosphonate in tablet
(oral) form. Because of the way these tablets have to be taken and the side effects
they can cause, people often stop taking them and need to start another medicine for
their osteoporosis.
 Zoledronic acid is another type of bisphosphonate and is administered as an infusion
into a vein once a year. Zoledronic acid is a common treatment for women with
postmenopausal osteoporosis who have stopped taking oral bisphosphonates.
 Denosumab is another treatment for women with postmenopausal osteoporosis and is
administered as an injection under the skin every six months.
Where and when was the study done?
 This study took place in Belgium, Denmark, Poland, Spain, Canada, the United States
and Australia.
 The study began on 07 November 2012 and ended on 09 January 2015.
 The study was completed as planned.
Why was the study done?
 This was a phase 4 clinical study, which is a study carried out after a medicine has
been approved by a government health authority for doctors to prescribe to patients.
 Previous clinical studies of denosumab in women with postmenopausal osteoporosis
showed it was better than receiving no medicine (placebo).