8. How has this study helped patients and researchers?
What is important to know about these results?
 In this clinical study, denosumab increased the density of bones in the lower spine, hip
and femoral neck (measured by a DXA scanner) more than zoledronic acid over 12
months. Increased bone density is associated with stronger bones.
 Side effects (which the study doctor thought could have been associated with the
study treatment, also known as ‘adverse reactions’) were also seen. For each of the
treatment groups (denosumab and placebo, or zoledronic acid and placebo), no
serious side effects occurred in more than 2 women. Calculated as a percentage, this
is the same as 0.6%. This means that if 1,000 women took the study medicine, about
6 would experience the event.
 These results are only for this clinical study, which looked at a sample of 643 women
with postmenopausal osteoporosis. The results for any woman taking part in this study
could have been better or worse than the average results for the treatment group they
were in. No single clinical study can give a complete picture of the benefits and risks of
a medicine and this single study does not give a complete picture of how denosumab
compares to zoledronic acid. Other studies may find different results.
9. Are there plans for further studies?
devorppA
Will there be more studies with denosumab?
If more clinical studies are done, they may be listed on public websites, such as those
below. These studies can be searched for using the following names:
AMG 162, denosumab, Prolia®.
 [after implementation: EU Clinical Trials database general URL]
 www.clinicaltrials.gov
 www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu
 amgentrials.com
10. Where can I find more information about this study?
Where can I learn more?
Amgen has committed to make research results available to the public. This summary has
been provided as part of that commitment and should not be used for any other purpose.
It should not be considered to make a claim for any product or to guide treatment
decisions.
Some information in this summary may be different from the approved labelling for
denosumab. Please refer only to the full prescribing information for proper use of
denosumab.