6. What were the side effects?
What are side effects (sometimes called adverse reactions)?
 All medicines can cause side effects (unwanted or unpleasant events that happen
when you take the medicine).
 In a clinical study, the study doctor records side effects which they think might be
associated with the study treatment a patient is receiving. These are also called
“adverse reactions”. Researchers analyse how many “adverse reactions” are recorded
for each medicine being studied.
What adverse reactions were seen in this study of denosumab and zoledronic acid?
 When recording side effects in this study, neither the study doctor nor his/her study
staff knew whether the patient was receiving denosumab (and placebo infusion) or
zoledronic acid (and placebo injection).
 Only side effects the study doctor or study staff thought may be related to the study
treatment a patient was receiving, also called “adverse reactions”, are reported here.
 Not all women in this study experienced adverse reactions. No women died due to an
adverse reaction.
 An adverse reaction was recorded as ‘serious’ if the event caused death, was life-
threatening, required a stay in hospital, resulted in persistent or significant disability,
devorppA
caused a birth defect or caused another medically important serious event.
 Researchers calculated the percentage of women experiencing adverse reactions in
each treatment group and compared these. Two women enrolled into the study but did
not receive any study medication. These women were not included in the analysis of
adverse reactions.
 The number and percentage of women in each treatment group with adverse reactions
are shown in Table 1.
Table 1. How many women experienced adverse reactions?
Denosumab Zoledronic acid (and
(and placebo infusion) placebo injection)
(N = 320) (N = 320)
Any adverse reaction (including serious 25 women (7.8%, or 39 women (12.2%, or
adverse reactions) about 78 out of 1,000) about 122 out of
1,000)
Serious adverse reactions 3 women (0.9%, or 4 women (1.3%, or
about 9 out of 1,000) about 13 out of 1,000)
Study treatment stopped early because of 1 woman (0.3%, or 6 women (1.9%, or
adverse reactions about 3 out of 1,000) about 19 out of 1,000)
 Adverse reactions that happened in at least 3 women in either treatment group are
shown in Table 2. Calculated as a percentage, 3 women in each treatment group is
the same as 0.9%. This means that if 1,000 women took the study medicine, about 9
would experience the event.