 The highest and average amount of omecamtiv mecarbil released into the blood
was similar for all 3 formulations.
 Researchers found that the differences from participant to participant in the
amount of omecamtiv mecarbil released into the blood was best controlled by
Formulation 1 and chose this formulation to test in Part 2.
During Part 2 of the study:
 Researchers tested Formulation 1 and measured the average amount of
omecamtiv mecarbil and the highest amount of omecamtiv mecarbil in the blood
after both 2 weeks and 12 weeks of treatment.
 They found that levels of omecamtiv mecarbil in participants’ blood reached the
amount researchers expected.
How did omecamtiv mecarbil affect participants’ heart function compared with the
placebo?
During Part 2 of the study, researchers looked at how taking omecamtiv mecarbil or
placebo affected participants’ heart function using the following measurements:
Systolic ejection time, or SET
The SET is the amount of time the heart spends contracting during 1 heartbeat.
After 20 weeks of treatment, researchers found that:
 SET stayed the same for participants taking the placebo, and increased for
participants taking omecamtiv mecarbil.
Stroke volume
The stroke volume is the amount of blood pumped by the heart with each
heartbeat. After 20 weeks of treatment, researchers found that:
 Stroke volume decreased for participants taking the placebo and increased
for participants taking omecamtiv mecarbil.
Left ventricular end systolic diameter, or LVESD
The LVESD is the diameter of the left side of the heart at the end of the heart’s
contraction. An increase in LVESD is one sign that heart function has become
worse. After 20 weeks of treatment, researchers found that:
 LVESD decreased for participants taking omecamtiv mecarbil and those
taking the placebo, with a greater decrease in participants taking
omecamtiv mecarbil.
Left ventricular end diastolic diameter, or LVEDD
The LVEDD is the diameter of the left side of the heart just before it begins to
contract. An increase in LVEDD is one sign that heart function has become
worse. After 20 weeks of treatment, researchers found that:
 LVEDD increased in participants taking the placebo and decreased in
participants taking omecamtiv mecarbil.