Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat type 2 diabetes, also called
T2DM. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinica l
studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if MEDI0382 works in a smal l
number of participants with T2DM and kidney problems. They also wanted to find
out if the participants had any medical problems during the study.
T2DM is a condition that causes high levels of blood sugar, also called glucose. In
people with T2DM, a hormone called insulin does not work properly. When it works
properly, insulin helps keep the blood sugar levels from getting too high. In serious
cases, T2DM can lead to long lasting kidney disease and other kidney problems.
People with kidney problems may have trouble processing different medications
and treatments.
MEDI0382 was designed to lower blood sugar levels by slowing digestion and
helping the body to produce more insulin.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if MEDI0382 helped lower the
amount of glucose in the blood of participants with T2DM and kidney problems.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did MEDI0382 change the levels of glucose in the blood?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men
and women with T2DM. The participants in this study were 57 to 83 years old and
had kidney problems.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done
this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the
results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which
treatment participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
2