Clinical Study Results
Who took part in the study?
The researchers asked for the help of men and women with COPD. The participants in this
study were 40 to 81 years old when they joined. All of the participants in the study had smoked
for at least 10 “pack-years”. This is about the same as smoking an average of at least 1 pack of
cigarettes a day for 10 years.
The study included 8,588 participants in Argentina, Australia, Austria, Belgium, Canada, Chile,
China, the Czech Republic, France, Germany, Hungary, Italy, Japan, Mexico, the Netherlands,
New Zealand, Peru, Poland, Russia, Serbia, South Africa, Spain, Sweden, Taiwan, the United
Kingdom, and the United States.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat COPD. Before a treatment can be approved for
people to take, researchers do clinical studies to find out how it works and how safe it is.
COPD is a lung disease that causes blocked airways and inflammation, making it hard for air
to flow in and out of the lungs. It also causes shortness of breath. COPD gets worse over time.
Most people who develop COPD are current or former smokers. People with COPD often have
periods of worse symptoms, also known as “flare-ups”.
BGF MDI, GFF MDI, and BFF MDI are inhalers that work by expanding the airways in the lungs
and reducing inflammation. This can help people with COPD breathe more easily.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if BGF MDI works in a large number of
participants with COPD to reduce flare-ups. They wanted to compare BGF MDI to GFF MDI and
BFF MDI. They also wanted to find out if the participants had any medical problems during the
study.
What was the purpose of this study?
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants who took BGF MDI have COPD flare-ups less often?
• Did the participants feel their quality of life changed after taking BGF MDI?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be done to find
out if BGF MDI helps improve the health of people with COPD compared with GFF MDI and
BFF MDI.
3