Clinical Study Results
For each questionnaire, the researchers calculated the average score for the participants in each
group. For SGRQ, they compared the average score over the first 24 weeks of treatment with the
average score before the participants started taking treatment. For EXACT, they compared the
average score over 52 weeks of treatment with the average score before the participants started
taking treatment.
Over 24 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that the participants’ SGRQ scores
decreased by an average of:
• 6.5 points for the participants taking the standard dose of BGF MDI
• 6.2 points for the participants taking the low dose of BGF MDI
• 4.9 points for the participants taking GFF MDI
• 5.1 points for the participants taking BFF MDI
Over 52 weeks of treatment, the researchers found that the participants’ EXACT scores
decreased by an average of:
• 1.8 points for the participants taking the standard dose of BGF MDI
• 1.6 points for the participants taking the low dose of BGF MDI
• 0.7 points for the participants taking GFF MDI
• 0.8 points for the participants taking BFF MDI
What medical problems happened during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments. These medical problems are
called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening,
causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatment. A lot of research
is needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction. These adverse reactions
have been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of the available data for the study
treatment.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
The results below are for 8,529 out of 8,588 participants who took at least 1 dose of study
treatment and had measurements taken.
9