Clinical Study Results
How did the inhaler treatment of the 3 combined drugs act in the body?
In general, the 3 combined drugs acted similarly in the body.
To answer this question, the researchers measured:
• the average amount of the 3 drugs in the blood
• the highest amount of the 3 drugs in the blood
• how long it took for each drug to reach its highest amount in the blood
They measured these amounts on Day 1 and Day 8, and then compared these results.
After 1 week of treatment, the researchers found that:
• The average amount of the 3 drugs in the blood of the participants was higher on Day 8
compared to Day 1.
• The highest amount of the 3 drugs in the blood of the participants was similar on Day 8
compared to Day 1.
• It took slightly longer for each of the 3 drugs to reach their highest amount in the blood of
the participants on Day 8 compared to Day 1.
What medical problems did the participants have?
The medical problems participants have during clinical studies that the doctors think might be
related to the study drugs are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered
“serious” when it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
The adverse reactions that happen in a study may or may not be caused by the study drugs. A
lot of research is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction.
The adverse reactions that happened in this study are not in this summary. Because there was
a very small number of participants, leaving this information out helps protect their identities.
The website listed at the end of this summary may have other information about medical
problems that happened in this study.
How has this study helped patients and researchers?
This study helped researchers learn how budesonide, glycopyrronium, and formoterol fumarate
act in the body when combined in an inhaler.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Further clinical studies with budesonide, glycopyrronium, and formoterol fumarate combined in
an inhaler are planned.
3