What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from Part A of this study overall. The results
each participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of
the questions that researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites
listed at the end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is
available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did the participants’ glycogen levels in the liver change after receiving
MEDI0382?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that the glycogen levels changed more in
the participants who received MEDI0382 compared with the participants who
received the placebo. The participants who received MEDI0382 had a decrease
in glycogen in the liver, compared with the participants who got the placebo.
This means that MEDI0382 works in a similar way to glucagon in the liver.
To answer this question, the researchers measured the level of glycogen in the
participants’ livers before they received any study treatment and again after they
received study treatment for 28 days. The researchers took several measurements
of glycogen across a 24-hour time period after the participants had their morning
meal. For the results below, the researchers used the glycogen measurement
taken 4 hours after the morning meal, before and after receiving treatment. The
researchers compared the levels to see how much the participants’ glycogen
levels changed after getting study treatment. The researchers did this by
calculating the average percentage of change in glycogen levels.
The average percentage that the participants’ glycogen levels changed was:
X –21.9% for the participants who received MEDI0382. This means that,
overall, the participants who received MEDI0382 had their liver glycogen
levels decrease by 21.9%.
X 1.0% for the participants who received the placebo. This means that,
overall, the participants who received the placebo had their liver glycogen
levels increase by 1.0%.
8 | Clinical Study Results