Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
The flu is an infection that can cause medical problems, including fever and
muscle aches. There are several different types of flu, and each type is known as
a “strain”. The study vaccine, MEDI3250, was created to defend the body against
2 strains of the flu. The study vaccine has weakened versions of these viruses in
it. Doctors give patients vaccines so that their bodies can fight viruses and help
prevent disease in the future.
Every year, researchers make a new vaccine against the flu. Before the MEDI3250
vaccine can be approved for patients to take, researchers do a clinical study to find
out how safe it is.
Researchers already did studies in other healthy participants that showed how
the study vaccine helped prevent them from getting the flu. In this study, the
researchers wanted to find out more about the safety of this vaccine.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• How many participants had a fever or other symptoms after getting study treatment?
• What medical problems did participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of healthy
men and women. The participants in this study were 18 to 49 years old.
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew what treatment each participant got. Some studies are done
this way because knowing what treatment the participants are getting can affect the
results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which
treatment the participants got so they could create a report of the study results.
The participants in this study were given either the study vaccine or a placebo.T he
placebo looked like a vaccine but did not have any medicine in it. The researchers
used a placebo to help make sure any of the effects they saw in the participants
who got the vaccine were actually caused by the vaccine.
A computer program was used to randomly choose whether each participant was
in the MEDI3250 treatment group or the placebo treatment group. This helps
make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the
results of each group is as accurate as possible.
2