This study was completed as planned. 23 of the 28 participants completed treatment.
3 participants no longer met the requirements to be in the study. 1 participant chose to
stop. 1 participant passed away during the study due to pneumonia (infection of the
lungs). Study doctors determined the pneumonia was not related to cinacalcet.
These are just some of the main results of the study. More results may be available at
the websites listed at the end of this summary.
8. How Has This Study Helped Patients and Researchers?
What is important to know about these results?
These results are only for this clinical study, which looked at a sample of 28 children and
teenagers with SHPT due to CKD. Not all participants in the study had the same results.
The results for any individual participant could have been better or worse than the results
for their group. These results are not an explanation of what a treatment can and cannot
do for an individual. No single clinical study can give a complete picture of the benefits
and risks of a medicine. Other studies may find different results.
This research may help patients and families in the future by helping doctors understand
how cinacalcet works in children and teenagers over longer periods of treatment. devorppA
9. Are There Plans for Further Studies?
Will there be more studies with cinacalcet?
If more clinical studies are done, they may be listed on public websites, such as those
below. Search for study medicine names “cinacalcet,” “Sensipar,” or ”Mimpara” on these
or other websites:
• www.clinicaltrials.gov
• www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu
• amgentrials.com
10. Where Can I Find More Information About This Study?
Where can I learn more?
Amgen has committed to make research results available to the public. This summary
has been provided as part of that commitment and should not be used for any other
purpose. It should not be considered to make a claim for any product or to guide
treatment decisions.
Some information in this summary may be different from the approved labelling for
cinacalcet. Your healthcare professional should refer to the full prescribing information
for proper use of cinacalcet.
7