3. General Information About the Clinical Trial
Where and when was the study done?
• This study took place in the United States, France, Belgium, Czech Republic, Poland,
Greece, Ukraine, and the Russian Federation.
• The study began in June 2015 and ended in March 2017.
• The study was completed as planned.
Why was the study done?
Chronic kidney disease (also called “CKD”) is a serious health problem where the
kidneys are diseased or damaged. The kidneys are not able to control the amount of
water flowing through the body or filter waste out of the blood like they should. CKD will
continue to get worse over time. Once the kidneys fail, treatment includes dialysis.
Dialysis uses a machine to filter the blood like healthy kidneys would. About 2 million
people around the world need dialysis.
Patient with CKD often have a problem called secondary hyperparathyroidism (also
called “SHPT”). SHPT is caused by too much of a certain hormone (called parathyroid
hormone, or “PTH”). PTH controls how much calcium is in the blood. Calcium is an
devorppA
important mineral our body needs for a healthy heart, bones, nervous system, and
hormone control. PTH causes minerals, like calcium, to leave the bones and enter the
blood. About 88% of dialysis patients will get SHPT.
Standard care for patients with SHPT may include vitamin D and medicines that remove
extra salts and minerals from the blood if there are too many. Cinacalcet is a medicine
that is approved by the health agencies in some countries to treat SHPT in adults and
some children. Cinacalcet has not been tested or approved for all types of patients with
SHPT. When used in studies like this one, it is called an “investigational medicine.”
This was a “phase 3 study,” which is the latest stage for testing investigational medicines
in humans before a medicine is approved for use. This was called an “open-label
extension” study. It was “open-label” because all of the participants and study doctors
knew they were taking cinacalcet. It was an “extension” because it took place after
another cinacalcet study with the same participants ended.
The main goal of this study was for researchers to learn how cinacalcet affects children
and teenagers with SHPT who take it for a long period of time.
2