Clinical Study Results
Research Sponsor: AstraZeneca AB
Drug Studied: Omega-3 carboxylic acids
Study Title: A study to learn how omega-3 carboxylic acids act in the blood
of healthy Chinese participants
Thank you!
Thank you to the participants who took part in the clinical trial for the study drug
omega-3 carboxylic acids.
AstraZeneca AB sponsored this study and thinks it is important to share the results. An
independent non-profit organization called CISCRP helped prepare this summary of the
study results for you.
If you participated in the study and have questions about the results, please speak with
the doctor or staff at your study site.
What is happening with the study now?
The study started and ended in June 2018. The sponsor reviewed the data collected when
the study ended and created a report of the results. This is a summary of that report.
There were 16 Chinese participants who joined the study in China, but only 14 participants
took the study drug. The doctors decided that 2 of the participants should not take the
study drug.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat people with high levels of triglycerides
in their blood. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do
clinical studies to find out how safe it is and how it works.
Triglycerides are a type of fat that is found in the blood and is also stored in the liver and in
fat cells. High levels of triglycerides can be a result of a high-fat diet. If someone has a high
level of triglycerides in their blood, their chance of getting heart disease can increase.
The study drug, “omega-3 carboxylic acids”, contains certain fats that comes from fish
oil that are known to lower triglyceride levels in the blood. A capsule form of omega-3
carboxylic acids has been tested in the United States for the treatment of high levels of
triglycerides. In this study, the researchers wanted to learn how omega-3 carboxylic acids
act in the blood of healthy Chinese participants.
1