What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the
end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also
be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
For this part of the study, the researchers only used data from the participants who
received at least 2 doses of their study drug and whose arteries were completely
blocked or almost completely blocked. The results from Group 3 and 4, who both
received the placebo, were analyzed as a single group.
Did MEDI6012 help to reduce heart muscle damage after a heart
attack?
Overall, the researchers found that there were some small reductions in the
amount of heart muscle damage. But, the difference between the participants who
received MEDI6012 and those who received the placebo was too small for the
researchers to know if MEDI6012 reduced heart muscle damage.
To answer this question, the researchers took a scan of the participants’ hearts
using a cardiovascular magnetic resonance scan. They took this scan between 10
and 12 weeks after each participant’s heart attack. From the scan, they determined
how much muscle damage there was and the size of a part of the heart known
as the “left ventricle”. Then they calculated how big the amount of heart muscle
damage was compared to the left ventricle as a percentage. This percentage is
called the “Global Infarct Size”.
Overall, the researchers found that the Global Infarct Size was:
X 8.6% in Group 1, who got 2 doses of MEDI6012
X 7.8% in Group 2, who got 6 doses of MEDI6012
X 7.3% in Group 3, who got the placebo
8 | Clinical Study Results