Clinical Study Results
What happened during the study?
Before the participants took treatment, they visited their study site 3 times over the course
of 2 to 4 weeks. At these visits, the study doctors checked to make sure the participants could
join the study. The study doctors:
• did physical examinations
• took blood and urine samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• checked the participants’ lung health and COPD symptoms
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what
medicines they were taking
After the first visit, the participants stopped taking certain COPD treatments they had been
taking before the study. If the participants were taking a type of inhaled COPD treatment called
corticosteroids, they continued taking this treatment throughout the study if the doctors thought
they needed to.
During this time, the participants also started taking “run-in” medicine. Doctors give run-in
medicine to study participants to ensure that the participants are taking the same medicine when
study treatment starts. This helps to make sure that the study results are as accurate as possible.
The run-in medicine in this study was ipratropium. This is an inhaled treatment that helps
people manage their COPD symptoms. The participants took ipratropium before starting study
treatment, during the “washout periods”, and at the end of the study. During a washout period,
participants do not take any study treatment. This is done so that each study treatment can be
“washed out” of the body before the participants take the next treatment.
If the participants’ COPD got worse at any time during the study, they could take a “rescue
medicine”. Rescue medicine is a specific medicine chosen by study doctors that participants can
take to help manage their disease without affecting the study results. The rescue medicine in this
study was salbutamol.
During the study, there were 3 treatment periods. Each treatment period lasted 2 weeks, and
there was a washout period between each treatment period. The participants visited their study
site 3 times during each treatment period, with a total of 9 visits over the course of about 5 months.
They took each of the 3 study treatments during each treatment period, but in a different order.
Throughout the study, the study doctors:
• checked the participants’ overall health and lung health
• gave the participants surveys that asked them about their COPD symptoms and how they
were feeling
3