Clinical Study Results
About 7 weeks after taking their last treatment, the participants visited their study site 1
time. At this visit, the study doctors checked the participants’ overall health and lung health and
asked them how they were feeling.
The chart below shows how the study was done.
During the study
9 visits in total
The doctors checked the health of
the participants to make sure they
could continue the study
3 visits
The participants took AZD8871,
Anoro Ellipta, or the placebo once
a day
2 weeks
Before the After the last
participants took treatment
treatment 7 week washout period 1 visit
3 visits Doctors checked
The doctors 3 visits the health of
checked to make The participants took AZD8871, participants
sure the Anoro Ellipta, or the placebo once
participants could a day
join the study
2 weeks
About 7 weeks after
4 weeks
the last treatment
7 week washout period
3 visits
The participants took AZD8871,
Anoro Ellipta, or the placebo once
a day
2 weeks
About 5 months
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted to
answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the study
results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Did AZD8871 help the participants breathe more easily?
Overall, the researchers found that AZD8871 helped the participants breathe more easily
compared to the placebo. The researchers found that there was a similar change in the
participants’ breathing when they took AZD8871 compared to when they took Anoro Ellipta. The
difference between these 2 treatments was too small for the researchers to know if AZD8871
helped the participants’ breathing compared to Anoro Ellipta.
4