Clinical Study Results
These surveys asked about:
• difficulty breathing
• coughing
• a high amount of phlegm in the airways, nose, and throat
• tightness in the chest
• how active the participants felt
• if the participants’ COPD affected how confident they felt leaving home
• difficulty sleeping
• low energy level
The researchers compared the survey results before and after the participants took study treatment.
Overall, the researchers found that the participants reported fewer and less severe COPD
symptoms when they took AZD8871 compared to when they took the placebo. The researchers
found that the change in COPD symptoms was similar when the participants took AZD8871
compared to when they took Anoro Ellipta. The difference between these 2 treatments was too
small for the researchers to know if AZD8871 helped the participants better manage their COPD
symptoms compared to Anoro Ellipta.
What medical problems did the participants have
during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study treatments. These medical problems are
called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life threatening,
causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study treatments. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a treatment causes an adverse reaction.
Some of the participants left this study before taking all 3 treatments. So, the below results are for
only some of the 73 participants.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about the adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during the study.
None of the participants died during the study.
How many participants had adverse reactions?
There were 16.4% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 12 out of
73 participants. Some of the participants had more than 1 adverse reaction.
6