Who took part in the study?
The researchers asked for the help of male and female children and teenagers
with SCD. The participants in this study were 3 to 17 years old when they joined.
All of the participants had at least 2 “pain crises” in the year before they joined
the study. Pain crises are a common symptom of SCD that happen when blood
vessels become blocked.
The study included 193 participants in 16 countries. These were Belgium, Brazil,
Egypt, Ghana, Greece, India, Italy, Kenya, Lebanon, South Africa, Spain, Tanzania,
Turkey, Uganda, the United Kingdom, and the United States.
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat SCD in children and teenagers.
Before a drug can be approved for people to take, researchers do clinical studies
to find out how it works and how safe it is.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if ticagrelor works in a large
number of participants with SCD. They also wanted to find out if the participants
had any medical problems during the study.
SCD is a disease that you are born with where red blood cells that are normally
round become crescent or “sickle” shaped. Sickle cells do not flow easily through
blood vessels. They can cause blockages in the blood vessels by clumping
together with other cells and forming blood clots. This stops the blood from
taking oxygen to some parts of the body, which can cause damage.
In people with SCD, blocked blood vessels can become very painful, particularly
in the chest. These pain events are known as “vaso-occlusive crises” or pain crises,
and can cause fever, breathing difficulties, and infections.
There are treatments to lower the number of pain crises in people with SCD, but
they may cause medical problems for some people. The study drug, ticagrelor,
was designed to stop blood clots from forming. Researchers thought it might also
help improve blood flow in people with SCD.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if ticagrelor lowered the number
of pain crises in children and teenagers with SCD.
3 | Clinical Study Results