Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This was a “double-blind” study. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew if the participants were taking saxagliptin and dapagliflozin
or glimepiride. Some studies are done this way because knowing what treatment
the participants are taking can affect the results of the study. When the study
ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment participants took so they
could create a report of the study results.
In this study, the participants either took dapagliflozin and saxagliptin or glimepiride
once a day. The participants continued taking their regular doses of metformin.
All of the treatments were taken as a tablet by mouth. Doses were measured in
milligrams, also known as mg.
The participants also took a placebo. A placebo looks like a drug but does not
have any medicine in it. The participants took a placebo so that they were taking
the same number of tablets whether they took dapagliflozin and saxagliptin or
glimepiride. This way, they would not know what treatment they were taking.
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant
took. This helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so
that comparing the results of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
The chart below shows the treatments that the participants were planned to take in
the study.
Saxagliptin and dapagliflozin The participants took their treatment once a day by mouth:
and metformin • 10 mg of dapagliflozin and 5 mg of saxagliptin
(227 participants)
• A placebo that looked like glimepiride
• Their usual dose of metformin
Glimepiride and metformin The participants took their treatment once a day by mouth:
(217 participants) • Glimepiride at a starting dose of 1 mg. The dose of
glimepiride could increase or decrease every 3 weeks for
12 weeks depending on each participants’ health, with a
maximum dose of 6 mg.
• A placebo that looked like dapaglifozin
• A placebo that looked like saxagliptin
• Their usual dose of metformin
4