Clinical Study Results
Part 2
The participants visited their study site 2 times during the first week of Part 2. Then, they visited
their study site up to 5 times during each cycle. Each cycle lasted 4 weeks.
In Part 2, there were 30 participants. There was 1 treatment group. The chart below shows the
treatments in Part 2.
First week After the first week
All participants: All participants:
• took 100 mg of selumetinib each day • took 100 mg of selumetinib each day during
the second and fourth week of each cycle
• did not get any durvalumab during this
time • got 1,500 mg of durvalumab 1 time each
cycle
After getting their last dose, the participants in Part 1 and Part 2 visited their study site up
to 2 times over the course of about 3 months. At these visits, the study doctors checked the
participants’ tumors and overall health, and asked them how they were feeling.
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. Each participant’s results may have
been different and are not in this summary.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment change.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have a full report of the study results.
Did the participants have significant changes in their health tests and
measurements during the study?
No. To answer this question, the researchers compared the results of the tests and
measurements that were done before the study to the results throughout the study.
The researchers studied the results from the below tests and measurements:
• physical examinations
• blood and urine samples
• heart health, by using ECGs
Overall, there were some changes in the results of these tests and measurements. But these
changes were too small for the researchers to consider the participants’ overall health to have
changed after taking the study treatments together.
5