Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients who have advanced cancer. Before a
drug or drug combination can be approved for patients to receive, researchers do clinical studies
to find out how safe the drug or drug combination is and if the drug or drug combination helps
patients.
Cancer is a disease that happens when the body cannot control the growth of cells. These extra
cells can come together to form solid tumors. Solid tumors can start in any part of the body.
“Advanced” means that the tumor cannot be completely or safely removed by surgery. In this
study, the researchers wanted to learn about the safety of selumetinib and durvalumab when
given together to patients who have advanced solid tumors.
There are treatments for advanced cancer. But these treatments may not stop cancer cells from
growing or spreading. They may also cause other medical problems. This is because these
treatments can cause side effects by negatively affecting normal cells and tissue in the body
instead of cancer cells.
One way that cancer can occur is when a protein in the body does not work normally. When
it works correctly, this protein creates new healthy cells. But when the protein does not work
correctly, it can create abnormal cells. This can lead to cancer. Researchers think that one of the
study drugs, selumetinib, may be able to block this protein from creating new cells.
The second study drug, durvalumab, is an immunotherapy that is currently used in several
countries to treat certain types of bladder and lung cancers. An immunotherapy uses the body’s
own immune system to help attack cancer cells without negatively affecting normal cells or
tissues. Durvalumab was previously called MEDI4736.
In this study, the researchers wanted to find out if selumetinib given with durvalumab would help
stop cancer cells from growing or spreading without causing medical problems.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants have significant changes in their health tests and measurements during
the study?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
The answers to these questions are important to know before other studies can be done that
help find out if selumetinib given with durvalumab improves the health of people who have
advanced solid tumors.
The researchers asked for the help of men and women who have advanced solid tumors. The men
and women had received other cancer treatments before the study, but those treatments had not
helped their cancer. The participants in this study were 30 to 79 years old when they joined.
2