Clinical Study Results
What kind of study was this?
This study was designed to have 3 parts. Part 1 was designed to learn if the different study
doses of selumetinib were safe to take with durvalumab. This would then help the researchers
choose the highest dose that would be safe to use for Part 2. The researchers would only begin
Part 2 if a dose from Part 1 was shown to be safe.
Part 1 was the “dose escalation” part of the study. This means that the first group of participants
started out by getting a low dose of selumetinib. The study doctors carefully looked at the results
for these participants. Then, the researchers decided whether to increase the dose in the next
group of participants in Part 1. Researchers use dose escalation to learn about the safety of a
specific dose before participants are given a higher dose.
Part 2 was designed to learn more about selumetinib when taken with durvalumab, and if the
dose chosen from Part 1 was able to help the participants’ cancer without causing medical
problems. If this dose was shown to be effective at helping participants’ cancer, the researchers
would begin Part 3.
Part 3 was designed to learn more about the Part 2 study dose. Part 3 was designed to include this
dose, as well as another cancer drug called tremelimumab. But in Part 2, the study dose was not
effective at helping the participants’ cancer. So, the researchers stopped the study after Part 2.
Both Part 1 and Part 2 were “open-label”. This means the researchers and the participant knew
which treatment the participant was getting. Each participant was in only 1 part of the study.
In this study, the treatments given were selumetinib and durvalumab. Selumetinib was taken as a
pill by mouth. Durvalumab was given through a needle into a vein. This is known as intravenous
treatment, also called IV treatment. The selumetinib and durvalumab doses were measured in
milligrams, also called mg.
What happened during the study?
Before getting any study treatment, the participants in Part 1 and in Part 2 visited their
study site 2 times over the course of about 6 weeks. At these visits, the study doctors checked to
make sure the participants could join the study. The study doctors performed several tests and
measurements. They:
• did a physical examination
• took blood and urine samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• measured the size of the participants’ tumors using computed tomography scans, also called
CT scans, and magnetic resonance imaging scans, also called MRI scans
• took tissue samples from the participants’ tumors
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what medicines
they were taking
3