What were the results of this study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each
participant had might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the
questions researchers wanted to answer can be found on the websites listed at the
end of this summary. When a full report of the study results is available, it can also
be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work
best and are safest. Other studies may provide new information or different
results. Always talk to a doctor before making any treatment changes.
Did saxagliptin have any effect on the participants’ heart function?
No. Overall, the researchers found that saxagliptin did not affect the participants’
heart function.
To answer this question, the study doctors took pictures of the participants’
hearts using magnetic resonance imaging, also called MRI. In these pictures, the
study doctors looked at the shape and size of the part of the heart called the left
ventricle. They then used this information to calculate the “left ventricular end
diastolic volume index”, also called the LVEDV index.
The higher a person’s LVEDV index score, the worse their heart function is. The
LVEDV index measures how many milliliters of blood the left ventricle can hold
compared to the surface area of the body in square meters, also called mL/m2. In
this study, the researchers considered a participant’s heart function to be “worse”
if their average LVEDV index scores at the end of the study were 10.5 mL/m2 more
than the placebo scores.
The researchers compared the participants’ LVEDV index scores at the start of the
study with their scores after taking saxagliptin or a placebo for 24 weeks. They
calculated the average change in LVEDV index scores in each group. Then, they
compared the results.
There was 1 participant in the placebo group who did not take any study
treatment. So, the results in this summary are for the 112 participants who took
saxagliptin and the 120 participants who took the placebo.
8 | Clinical Study Results