Clinical Study Results
What medical problems did the participants have
during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the
study that the study doctors thought might be related to the study drugs. These medical
problems are called “adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when
it is life-threatening, causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drugs. A lot of research
is needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. The websites listed at the
end of this summary may have more information about the adverse reactions or other
medical problems that happened during this study.
How many participants had serious adverse reactions that doctors thought
were related to study treatment?
None of the participants had serious adverse reactions during the study.
There were 0.3% of participants who died during the study. This was 3 out of
881 participants.
• 1 participant died in a motorcycle accident
• 1 participant with a history of high blood pressure died from a heart attack
• 1 participant with a history of high cholesterol and high blood pressure died from
heart failure that was caused by rapid heartbeat
The researchers did not think any of these deaths were related to the study drugs.
How many participants had adverse reactions that doctors thought were
related to study treatment?
There were 9.6% of participants who had adverse reactions during the study. This was
85 out of 881 participants:
• There were 13.3% of participants who took all 3 drugs who had adverse reactions
during the study. This was 39 out of 293 participants.
• There were 10.9% of participants who took dapagliflozin and the placebo with
metformin who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 32 out of
293 participants.
• There were 4.7% of participants who took saxagliptin and the placebo with metformin
who had adverse reactions during the study. This was 14 out of 295 participants.
None of the participants stopped treatment because of adverse reactions.
6