Clinical Study Results
Where can I learn more about the study?
If you have questions about the results, please speak with the study doctor or staff at your
study site. You can find more information about your study online at:
• www.clinicaltrials.gov. Once you are on the website, type NCT02471404 into the
search box called “Other Terms”. Then, click “Search all studies”.
• www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu Once you are on the website, click “Home and
Search”, then type 2015-002376-24 in the search box and click “Search”.
Official study title: A 52-Week, Multi-Centre, Randomised, Parallel-Group, Double-Blind,
Active-Controlled, Phase IV Study to Evaluate the Safety and Efficacy of Dapagliflozin or
Dapagliflozin plus Saxagliptin compared with Sulphonylurea all given as Add-on Therapy
to Metformin in Adult Patients with Type 2 Diabetes Who Have Inadequate Glycaemic
Control on Metformin Monotherapy
AstraZeneca AB is the sponsor of this study and has its headquarters in
Södertälje, Sweden.
The phone number for the AstraZeneca Information Center is 1-877-240-9479.
The results presented here are for a single study. Other studies may provide
new information or different results. You should not make changes to your
therapy based on the results of a single study without first consulting your
healthcare professional.
Thank you
It is said that the greatest gift is one which is given anonymously, giving when you
do not know whether you will get direct personal benefit.
This is the gift that you have given by taking part in a clinical study. It is a brave and
selfless act, one that advances medical knowledge and benefits public health.
Thank you for the gift of your participation in clinical research.
The Center for Information & Study on Clinical Research Participation (CISCRP) is a non-profit
organization focused on educating and informing the public about clinical research participation. CISCRP
is not involved in recruiting participants for clinical studies, nor is it involved in conducting clinical studies.
CISCRP
One Liberty Square, Suite 510 • Boston, MA 02109
1-877-MED-HERO • www.ciscrp.org
8
Version: 2.0 04/2018