Clinical Study Results
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions researchers wanted to
answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. When a full report of the
study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Did dapagliflozin affect HbA1c levels in the participants’ blood after 24 weeks of
treatment?
No. Overall there were some changes in the average HbA1c levels in the participants who took
dapagliflozin and the participants who took the placebo. But, these changes were not enough for
the researchers to know if dapagliflozin affected HbA1c levels.
To answer this question, the researchers measured the amount of HbA1c in the participants’
blood before and after they took treatment in Part 2 of the study. They calculated the average
percent change in the participants’ HbA1c levels after 24 weeks for those who took dapagliflozin
and for those who took the placebo. This was at the end of Part 2.
The researchers found that the average change in HbA1c levels in the participants’ blood after
24 weeks was:
• a decrease of 0.25% for the participants taking dapagliflozin
• an increase of 0.50% for the participants taking the placebo
What medical problems happened during the study?
This section is a summary of the medical problems the participants had during the study that
the study doctors thought might be related to the study drug. These medical problems are called
“adverse reactions”. An adverse reaction is considered “serious” when it is life-threatening,
causes lasting problems, or requires hospital care.
These adverse reactions may or may not be caused by the study drug. A lot of research is
needed to know whether a drug causes an adverse reaction. These adverse reactions have
been, and will continue to be, reviewed together with all of the available data for the study drug.
The websites listed at the end of this summary may have other information about adverse
reactions or other medical problems that happened during this study.
6