Clinical Study Results
There were 3 main parts in this study.
Part 1 of the study was “single-blind”. This means the researchers, study doctors, and other
study staff knew what the participants were taking but the participants did not. In Part 1, all of the
participants took the placebo once a day for 4 weeks.
Part 2 of the study was “double-blind”. This means none of the participants, researchers, study
doctors, or other study staff knew what treatment each participant was taking. Some studies
are done this way because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the
results of the study. When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment the
participants took so they could create a report of the study results.
In Part 2, the participants took either dapagliflozin or the placebo once a day for 24 weeks. A
computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment each participant took. This helps
make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results of
each treatment is as accurate as possible.
Part 3 of the study was “open-label”. This means the participants, researchers, study doctors,
and other study staff knew what each participant was taking. In Part 3, all of the participants took
dapagliflozin once a day for 28 weeks.
The chart below shows the treatments that were planned.
Part 1 Part 2 Part 3
72 participants 39 participants 33 participants 72 participants
would take the would take 10 mg would take the would take 10 mg
placebo of dapagliflozin placebo of dapagliflozin
As a tablet As a tablet As a tablet As a tablet
by mouth by mouth by mouth by mouth
Once a day for Once a day for Once a day for Once a day for
4 weeks 24 weeks 24 weeks 28 weeks
What happened during the study?
The participants were in the study for just over 1 year. But the entire study took almost 4 years to
finish.
The study started in June 2016 and ended in April 2020.
Throughout the study, the study team gave the participants advice about their diet and exercise.
They also gave the participants a finger-prick glucose meter to use at home between visits.
4