Clinical Study Results
Why was the research needed?
Researchers are looking for a better way to treat patients who have type 2 diabetes and kidney
damage. Before a drug can be approved for patients to take, researchers do clinical studies to
find out how it works and how safe it is. The study drugs, dapagliflozin and saxagliptin, are both
available as treatments for people who have type 2 diabetes.
In people who have type 2 diabetes, the body does not use insulin as well as it should. Insulin
is made by the pancreas and controls the levels of sugar in the blood. If a person’s blood sugar
levels become too high, he or she can have medical problems. One of the most common of
these medical problems is damage to the kidneys.
The kidneys help the body control the levels of sugar in the blood. If sugar levels become too
high, the kidneys lower the levels by getting rid of sugar through the urine. If the kidneys become
damaged, they may not be able to do this as well as they should. This can cause a further
increase in blood sugar levels.
Dapagliflozin may help lower the body’s blood sugar levels by helping the kidneys remove sugar
through the urine. Saxagliptin may help the body control blood sugar levels by increasing the
amount of insulin the body makes.
In this study, the researchers wanted to learn more about using these drugs together to treat
people who have type 2 diabetes. The researchers also wanted to find out if the participants had
any medical problems during the study.
The main questions the researchers wanted to answer in this study were:
• Did the participants’ kidney health change after taking the study drugs?
• Did the participants’ blood sugar levels change after taking the study drugs together?
• What medical problems did the participants have during the study?
To answer the questions in this study, the researchers asked for the help of men and women who
have type 2 diabetes and kidney damage. The participants in this study were 35 to 88 years old.
What kind of study was this?
The first 4 weeks of the study were “single-blind”. This means the researchers knew what
participants were taking but the participants did not.
Before taking any study treatment, all of the participants took a placebo for 4 weeks. A placebo
looks like a drug but does not have any medicine in it. Researchers use a placebo to help
make sure any of the effects they see in the participants who take the drug are actually caused
by the drug.
2