Clinical Study Results
At the end of the study, the participants visited their study site 1 more time. At this visit, the
doctors asked the participants how they were feeling and checked their blood sugar levels, kidney
health, and overall health.
The chart below shows how the study was done.
Before the main part During the main part At the end of the study
3 visits 6 visits 1 visit
• The doctors checked • The participants took their The doctors checked the
to make sure the study treatment 1 time each health of the participants
participants could join day for 24 weeks
the study
• The participants kept taking
• The participants took their usual medicines for
2 placebo tablets each type 2 diabetes and kidney
day for 4 weeks damage
About 3 weeks after the last
About 6 weeks 24 weeks
visit in the main part
What were the results of the study?
This is a summary of the main results from this study overall. The results each participant had
might be different and are not in this summary. A full list of the questions the researchers wanted
to answer can be found on the websites listed at the end of this summary. If a full report of the
study results is available, it can also be found on these websites.
Researchers look at the results of many studies to decide which treatments work best and are
safest. Other studies may provide new information or different results. Always talk to a doctor
before making any treatment changes.
Did the participants’ kidney health change after taking the study drugs?
Yes. Overall, the researchers found that the participants who took dapagliflozin together with
saxagliptin and the participants who took dapagliflozin and the placebo had healthier kidneys at
the end of the study compared to before the study.
To answer this question, the researchers studied participants’ kidney health throughout the study.
They did this by measuring the amounts of a protein called albumin in participants’ urine. Then,
they compared these amounts to the amounts of a substance called creatinine in the urine.
If a person’s urine contains a high amount of albumin, he or she may have damaged kidneys. The
researchers in this study measured the amount of albumin by using a ratio between the amounts
of albumin and creatinine in the urine. This ratio is called the urine albumin-to-creatinine ratio,
which is also called the UACR. A decrease in UACR means better kidney health.
4