Clinical Study Results
The main part of this study was “double-blind”. This means none of the participants, doctors, or
other study staff knew what treatment each participant took. Some studies are done this way
because knowing what treatment the participants are taking can affect the results of the study.
When the study ended, the research sponsor found out which treatment participants took so they
could create a report of the study results.
During the main part of the study, the participants took 1 of 3 study treatments. All of the study
treatments were taken as tablets by mouth. The doses of dapagliflozin and saxagliptin were
measured in milligrams, also called mg. Below are the different treatment groups:
• 152 participants took 10 mg of dapagliflozin and 2.5 mg of saxagliptin
• 145 participants took 10 mg of dapagliflozin and a placebo
• 148 participants took 2 placebos, 1 that looked like dapagliflozin and 1 that looked like saxagliptin
A computer program was used to randomly choose the treatment that each participant took. This
helps make sure the groups are chosen fairly. Researchers do this so that comparing the results
of each treatment is as accurate as possible.
What happened during the study?
Before the main part of the study, the participants visited their study site 3 times. At these
visits, the doctors checked to make sure they could join the study. The doctors:
• did a physical examination
• took blood and urine samples
• checked the participants’ heart health using an electrocardiogram, also called an ECG
• checked the participants’ blood sugar levels and kidney health
• asked the participants about their medical history, how they were feeling, and what medicines they
were taking
After the doctors made sure the participants could join the study, the participants took 2 placebo
tablets each day for 4 weeks. They also kept taking their usual medicines for type 2 diabetes and
kidney damage. At the end of this time, the participants returned to their study site. At this visit,
the doctors checked the participants’ health again to make sure they could start the main part of
the study.
During the main part of the study, the participants visited their study site 6 times over the
course of 24 weeks. During this time, they took their study treatments 1 time each day. The
participants also kept taking their usual medicines for type 2 diabetes and kidney damage.
Throughout the study, the doctors took blood and urine samples and checked the participants’
blood sugar levels, kidney health, and overall health.
3