This is a double-blind, placebo-controlled study in adults with non-alcoholic steatohepatitis and Type 2 Diabetes Mellitis on stable dose of metformin monotherapy. Participants will be treated for 16 weeks with placebo or 1 of 2 doses of investigational product to determine the effect on liver fat, HbA1c, safety, tolerability and pharmacodynamics.
An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a clinical study participant, temporally associated with the use of study intervention, whether or not considered related to the study intervention. A serious AE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; was life-threatening; required hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity; resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect or that was considered to be an important medical event. An AE was considered TEAE if the event occurred during the on-treatment period. The causality of AEs were assessed by the investigator using clinical judgement. A severe AE was an event that prevents normal everyday activities.
Hypoglycemic AEs were routinely monitored during participation in the study. Hypoglycemic AE was defined as 1 of the following: 1. Asymptomatic hypoglycemia: an event not accompanied by typical symptoms of hypoglycemic AE but a plasma glucose value of <70 milligram per deciliter (mg/dL) using glucometer; 2. Documented symptomatic hypoglycemia: an event during which typical symptoms of hypoglycemic AEs were accompanied with a glucose value of <70 mg/dL using glucometer and the clinical picture included prompt resolution with food intake, subcutaneous glucagon or intravenous (IV) glucose; 3. Probable symptomatic hypoglycemia: an event during which symptoms of hypoglycemic AEs were not accompanied by a plasma glucose determination but was presumably caused by a plasma glucose concentration of <70 mg/dL, and the clinical picture included prompt resolution with food intake, subcutaneous glucagon, or IV glucose.
