No or rare signs of Koebner phenomenon, confetti like or trichrome lesions could be present.
T-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving 100% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI100). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI = ((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
Faint, barely detectable loss of pigmentation mainly located on dorsal hands, feet, bony prominences, and/or limited areas.
Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The change from baseline in VitiQoL Behaviors Domain Score was analyzed using the MMRM analysis. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The sIGA Score 0 represented "Clear" with no signs of loss of pigmentation with natural light or with Woods lamp examination.
The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI = ((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 75% improvement in central read F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI75). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant administered a product or medical device; the event did not necessarily need to have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. An AE was considered a TEAE if the event started during the effective duration of treatment. All events that started on or after the first dosing day and time/start time, if collected, but before the last dose plus the lag time were flagged as TEAEs. SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; was life threatening (immediate risk of death); requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or that was considered to be an important medical event. Causality to study treatment was determined by the investigator.
T-VASI was calculated by a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. The outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 90% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI90). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI=((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI = ((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 90% improvement in central read F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI90). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
The site assessment of the F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from face (possible range, 0.00 4.00): Local F-VASI = [Digit Units] × [Depigmentation] × 0.1. Scalp, neck, eyebrows, eyelashes, and vermilion were excluded from this calculation. The volar surface of 1 digit (the participant's thumb) was approximately 0.1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of face. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant administered a product or medical device; the event did not necessarily need to have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. The abnormal test findings, clinically significant signs and symptoms of anaemia, neutropenia, thrombocytopenia and lymphopenia were reported as AEs. The clinical significance was determined by the investigator.
The change from baseline in VitiQoL Stigma Domain Score was analyzed using the MMRM analysis. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The T-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from 6 different body regions (possible range, 0-100) with a modified method: VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 separate and mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities (excluding hands), trunk, lower extremities (excluding the feet), and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%. Percent change from baseline in T-VASI=((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The absolute change from baseline in T-VASI was analyzed using the ANCOVA analysis. Negative change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
This is a Phase 2b, randomized, double blind, parallel group, multicenter study with an extension period. The study will have a maximum duration of approximately 60 weeks. This includes an up to 4 weeks Screening Period, a 24 week dose ranging period, an up to 24 week extension period and a 8 week Follow up Period.
The percentage of participants achieving a static Investigator Global Assessment (sIGA) Score 0/1 and sIGA ≥2-point improvement at Week 24 was presented in this outcome measure. The sIGA score ranged from 0 to 4.
The VitiQoL was a reliable and validated vitiligo disease specific HRQoL instrument which measured concepts relevant to vitiligo participants. The VitiQoL was a 15-item PRO measure which measured concepts of symptoms, daily activities, leisure activities, work, personal relationships and treatment. Responses ranged from "not at all" (scored 0) to "most of the time" (scored 6) and gave a minimum and maximum score from 0 to 90, with higher scores representing greater burden. The VitiQoL Stigma domain score was the sum of items 1, 2, 5, 7 and 15, and ranged from 0 to 30.
The sIGA Scores 2, 3 and 4 represented "Mild Vitiligo", "Moderate Vitiligo" and "Severe Vitiligo", respectively.
Central read F-VASI75=1 if percent change from baseline ≥75; central read F-VASI75=0 if percent change from baseline <75. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI=((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to study Day 18.
T-VASI was calculated by a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. The outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 50% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI50). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI=((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The site assessment of the F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from face (possible range, 0-4): Local F-VASI = [Digit Units] × [Depigmentation] × 0.1. Scalp, neck, eyebrows, eyelashes, and vermilion were excluded from this calculation. The volar surface of 1 digit (the participant's thumb) was approximately 0.1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of face. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%. Percent change from baseline in Local F-VASI = ((post baseline Local F-VASI - baseline Local F-VASI)/baseline Local F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 50% improvement in site assessment F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI50). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 75% improvement from baseline in central read F-VASI (F-VASI75) at Week 24. A negative percent change from baseline in central read F-VASI signified an improvement. The central read F-VASI75 response rate was analyzed by first treating the missing data (non-COVID-19 related) as non responders and then applying Chan and Zhang exact confidence interval (CI) method at Week 24.
The Vitiligo-Specific Quality of Life (VitiQoL) instrument was a reliable and validated vitiligo disease-specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL) instrument which measured concepts relevant to vitiligo participants. The VitiQoL was a 15-item PRO measure which measured concepts of symptoms, daily activities, leisure activities, work, personal relationships and treatment. Responses ranged from "not at all" (scored 0) to "most of the time" (scored 6) and gave a minimum and maximum score from 0 to 90, with higher scores representing greater burden. The VitiQoL total score was calculated as sum of items 1-15.
The change from baseline in VitiQoL Participation Limitation Domain Score was analyzed using the MMRM analysis. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
An AE was considered a TEAE if the event started during the effective duration of treatment. All events that started on or after the first dosing day and time/start time, if collected, but before the last dose plus the lag time were flagged as TEAEs.
The site assessment of the F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from face (possible range, 0-4): Local F-VASI = [Digit Units] × [Depigmentation] × 0.1. Scalp, neck, eyebrows, eyelashes, and vermilion were excluded from this calculation. The volar surface of 1 digit (the participant's thumb) was approximately 0.1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of face. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%. Percent change from baseline in Local F-VASI = ((post baseline Local F-VASI - baseline Local F-VASI)/baseline Local F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving 100% improvement in site assessment F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI100). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI = ((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 50% improvement in central read F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI50). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
The site assessment of the F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from face (possible range, 0-4): Local F-VASI = [Digit Units] × [Depigmentation] × 0.1. Scalp, neck, eyebrows, eyelashes, and vermilion were excluded from this calculation. The volar surface of 1 digit (the participant's thumb) was approximately 0.1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of face. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%. Percent change from baseline in Local F-VASI = ((post baseline Local F-VASI - baseline Local F-VASI)/baseline Local F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 90% improvement in site assessment F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI90). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The VitiQoL was a reliable and validated vitiligo disease specific HRQoL instrument which measured concepts relevant to vitiligo participants. The VitiQoL was a 15-item PRO measure which measured concepts of symptoms, daily activities, leisure activities, work, personal relationships and treatment. Responses ranged from "not at all" (scored 0) to "most of the time" (scored 6) and gave a minimum and maximum score from 0 to 90, with higher scores representing greater burden. The VitiQoL Participation Limitation domain score was the sum of items 3, 4, 6, 9, 10, 11, 14 and ranged from 0 to 42.
The T-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from 6 different body regions (possible range, 0-100) with a modified method: VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 separate and mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities (excluding hands), trunk, lower extremities (excluding the feet), and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%.
The change from baseline in total VitiQoL score was analyzed using the mixed-effect models repeated measures (MMRM) analysis. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The sIGA Score 1 represented "Almost Clear" with the following descriptors:
Total body VASI (T-VASI) was calculated using a formula that included contribution from 6 different body regions (possible range, 0-100) with a modified method: T-VASI= Ʃ[Hand Units]×[Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 separate and mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities (excluding hands), trunk, lower extremities (excluding feet), and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. The data below was the percentage of participants achieving at least 50% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI50) at Week 24. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The VitiQoL was a reliable and validated vitiligo disease specific HRQoL instrument which measured concepts relevant to vitiligo participants. The VitiQoL was a 15-item PRO measure which measured concepts of symptoms, daily activities, leisure activities, work, personal relationships and treatment. Responses ranged from "not at all" (scored 0) to "most of the time" (scored 6) and gave a minimum and maximum score from 0 to 90, with higher scores representing greater burden. The VitiQoL Behaviors domain score was the sum of items 8, 12 and 13, and ranged from 0 to 18.
Approximately 90% pigmentation within lesions.
Percent change from baseline in central read F-VASI = ((post-baseline central read F-VASI - baseline central read F-VASI)/baseline central read F-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
A Phase 2b Study To Evaluate The Efficacy And Safety Profile Of PF-06651600 And PF-06700841 In Active Non-segmental Vitiligo Subjects
T-VASI was calculated by a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. The outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 75% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI75). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI=((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
Percent change from baseline in Local F-VASI = ((post baseline Local F-VASI - baseline Local F-VASI)/baseline Local F-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The central read F-VASI was assessed based on the facial photographs taken at the site. The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area.
The site assessment of the F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from face (possible range, 0-4): Local F-VASI = [Digit Units] × [Depigmentation] × 0.1. Scalp, neck, eyebrows, eyelashes, and vermilion were excluded from this calculation. The volar surface of 1 digit (the participant's thumb) was approximately 0.1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of face. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the following percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90%, or 100%. Percent change from baseline in Local F-VASI = ((post baseline Local F-VASI - baseline Local F-VASI)/baseline Local F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 75% improvement in site assessment F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI75). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI = ((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 100% improvement in central read F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI100). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
Adverse Event (AE) was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant administered a product or medical device; the event did not necessarily need to have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. An AE was considered a TEAE if the event started during the effective duration of treatment. All events that started on or after the first dosing day and time/start time, if collected, but before the last dose plus the lag time were flagged as TEAEs. SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; was life threatening (immediate risk of death); required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or that was considered to be an important medical event. Causality to study treatment was determined by the investigator.
