Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 60 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
ACR50 response is a >= 50% improvement in TJC (28) and SJC (28) and >=50% improvement in 3 of the 5 remaining ACR-core criteria: 1) PGA of arthritis, 2) PtGA of arthritis, 3) participant's assessment of arthritis pain, 4) participant's assessment of functional disability by HAQ-DI, and 5) CRP (mg/L) at each visit. PGA: physician's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis), higher scores=worse condition. PtGA: participant's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 mm (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis condition), higher scores = worse condition. Participant's assessment of arthritis pain: assessed on VAS, 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (most severe pain), higher score = more pain. HAQ-DI: functional disability evaluation, score: 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (unable to do), higher score=more disability.
MACE included the cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and non-fatal stroke of any classification, including reversible focal neurologic defects with imaging evidence of a new cerebral lesion consistent with ischemia or hemorrhage. Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 60 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
ACR20 response is a >= 20% improvement in TJC (28) and SJC (28) and >=20% improvement in 3 of the 5 remaining ACR-core criteria: 1) PGA of arthritis, 2) PtGA of arthritis, 3) participant's assessment of arthritis pain, 4) participant's assessment of functional disability by HAQ-DI, and 5) CRP (mg/L) at each visit. PGA: physician's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis), higher scores=worse condition. PtGA: participant's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 mm (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis condition), higher scores = worse condition. Participant's assessment of arthritis pain: assessed on VAS, 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (most severe pain), higher score = more pain. HAQ-DI: functional disability evaluation, score: 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (unable to do), higher score=more disability.
Opportunistic infections (OI) were reviewed and adjudicated by the opportunistic infection review committee (OIRC). Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 28 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
Safety Study Of Tofacitinib Versus Tumor Necrosis Factor (TNF) Inhibitor In Subjects With Rheumatoid Arthritis
Hepatic events (adjudicated) included drug-induced liver injury (DILI) - probable, highly likely and definite, DILI - listed separately, DILI - cases meeting classification and severity, participants with elevations of transaminase levels greater than (>) 1* upper limit of normal (ULN), greater than or equal to (>=) 3*ULN, >=5*ULN (based on laboratory values). Incidence rate was the total number of participants with admissible events divided by total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was minimum of The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 28 days. Last contact date was maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). In case of death, last contact date was death date. First events counted within RP. Participant did not have an event or had an event outside risk period were censored at end of RP.
AE was any untoward medical occurrence post treatment; event need not necessarily had causal relationship with treatment or usage. SAE: any untoward medical occurrence at any dose: resulted in death, life-threatening, required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity, resulted in congenital anomaly. TEAE: event that occurred for first time during effective duration of treatment and not seen prior to start of treatment or event seen prior to start of treatment but increase in severity during treatment. Risk period (RP) for AE: minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date+28 days. RP for SAEs: last contact date. Last contact date was maximum: AE start, AE stop, last study visit, withdrawal and telephone contact. In case of death, last contact was death date. First events counted within RP. Participant did not have event or had event outside risk period were censored at end of RP.
Incidence rate (number of participants with event per 100 participant year [PY]) was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. Malignancy events, excluding NMSC were adjudicated by a steering committee. The risk period (RP) was the last contact date. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
All-cause death was defined as the death due to any cause during the course of study. Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. Incidence rate of all-cause deaths (adjudicated by Adjudication Committee) was reported in this outcome measure. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 28 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
Non-fatal stroke included reversible focal neurologic defects with imaging evidence of a new cerebral lesion consistent with ischemia or hemorrhage. Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 60 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
DAS28 is a measure of disease activity in participants with rheumatoid arthritis based on a 28-joint assessment. DAS28-4 (CRP) was calculated from number of painful joints out of 28 joints (TJC28) and number of swollen joints out of 28 joints (SJC28), CRP (milligrams per liter [mg/L]) and patient's global assessment of disease activity (PtGA) on a 100 mm Visual Analog Scale (VAS) (scores ranging from 0 millimeter [mm] [very well] to 100 mm [worst], higher scores indicated worse health condition). Total DAS28-4 (CRP) score range: 0 to 9.4, higher score indicated more disease activity. DAS28-4 (CRP) <= 3.2 indicates low disease activity and > 3.2 to <=5.1 indicates moderate disease activity, >5.1 indicates high disease activity, and DAS28-4 (CRP) < 2.6 indicates remission. DAS28-4 (CRP) = 0.56*sqrt(TJC28) + 0.28*sqrt(SJC28) + 0.36*ln(CRP in mg/L +1) + 0.014*PtGA in mm+ 0.96; ln = natural logarithm, sqrt = square root.
DAS28 is a measure of disease activity in participants with rheumatoid arthritis based on a 28-joint assessment. DAS28-4 (CRP) was calculated from number of painful joints out of 28 joints (TJC28) and number of swollen joints out of 28 joints (SJC28), CRP (mg/L) and PtGA on a 100 mm VAS (VAS: scores ranging from 0 mm [very well] to 100 mm [worst], higher scores indicated worse health condition). Total DAS28-4 (CRP) score range: 0 to 9.4, higher score indicated more disease activity. DAS28-4 (CRP) <= 3.2 indicates low disease activity and > 3.2 to <=5.1 indicates moderate disease activity, >5.1 indicates high disease activity, and DAS28-4 (CRP) < 2.6 indicates remission. DAS28-4 (CRP) = 0.56*sqrt(TJC28) + 0.28*sqrt(SJC28) + 0.36*ln(CRP in mg/L +1) + 0.014*PtGA in mm+ 0.96.
