Audiological evaluations of participants were recorded and reported by air conduction via phones/headphones through pure tone audiometry test which included participants with hearing loss ranged from less than or equal to (<=) 20 decibel hearing loss (DB HL), 21-40 DB HL, 41-70 DB HL, 71-90 DB HL, greater than (>) 90 DB HL or no response, and missing at frequencies ranged from 500 Hertz (Hz) to 8000 Hz at month 12 and 24. In this outcome measure, data have been reported for right and left ear separately. Rows according to air conduction categories at specified time points are reported in this outcome measure, only when there was a non-zero data for at least 1 reporting arm.
This study will evaluate whether IV sildenafil can reduce the time on inhaled nitric oxide treatment and reduce the failure rate of available treatments for persistent pulmonary hypertension of the newborn.
The Bayley-III assesses infant and toddler development across five domains: cognitive, language, motor, social-emotional (SE), and adaptive behavior (AB). Assessments of the cognitive, language, and motor domains conducted using items administered to the child; assessments of the SE and AB domains conducted using the primary caregiver's responses to a questionnaire. The questionnaire comprises the SE scale (35 items) and the AB scale (241 items). Raw scores of SE and AB were converted to composite scores. Composite scores for SE and AB scale ranged from 40 to 160, where higher scores indicated better social-emotional skills and adaptive behavior in child. In this outcome measure composite scores for parent/caregiver were reported at month 24.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a subject who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly; medically important events. Treatment-emergent are events between first infusion of study drug and up to 31 days after end of study drug infusion (up to 45 days) that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. AEs included both SAEs and non-SAEs.
Standard age-appropriate ophthalmological examinations were used to assess visual acuity (performed differently for children able of verbal interaction) at month 12 and 24. Visual acuity (VA) of verbal children was assessed for each eye using the Snellen method, where logarithm of minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) units were derived from the Snellen ratios. Participants had to read letters from the chart at a distance of 20 feet/6 meter or 4 meter. VA (Snellen ratio) = distance between the chart and participant, divided by distance at which participant was able to see/read chart without impairment; expressed as decimal, logMAR = log10 (1/decimal VA). In this outcome measure, data have been reported for right and left eye separately.
Bayley-III assesses infant and toddler development across five domains: cognitive, language, motor, social-emotional (SE), and adaptive behavior (AB). Assessments of the cognitive, language, and motor domains conducted using items administered to the child; assessments of the SE and AB domains conducted using the primary caregiver's responses to a questionnaire. Score ranges: cognitive scale 0-91, language scale 0-97 and motor scale 0-132, where higher scores indicated better cognitive function, communication and motor skills respectively. Raw scores of cognitive, language and motor domains were converted to composite scores. Composite scores of cognitive, language and motor developmental scales ranged from a scale of 40 to 160, where higher score indicated stronger skills and abilities. In this outcome measure composite scores for infants and toddlers were reported at month 12 and 24.
