Percentage of participants with reduction in WOMAC pain intensity of at least (>=) 30%, 50%, 70% and 90% at Weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16 and 24 compared to baseline were classified as responders to WOMAC pain subscale and are reported here. WOMAC: self-administered, disease-specific questionnaire which assesses clinically important, participant-relevant symptoms for pain, stiffness and physical function in participants with osteoarthritis. The WOMAC pain subscale is a 5-item questionnaire used to assess the amount of pain experienced due to osteoarthritis of index joint (knee or hip) during past 48 hours. It was calculated as the mean of scores from 5 individual questions scored on a numerical rating scale (NRS) of 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain), where higher scores indicated higher pain. Missing data was imputed using mixed BOCF/LOCF.
EQ-5D-5L: standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consists of two components: a health state profile and an optional VAS. EQ-5D health state profile comprises of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 levels: 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems, and 5=extreme problems. Responses from the five domains were used to calculate a single utility index (the Overall health utility score) where values are <=1. The Overall health utility score for a patient with no problems in all 5 items is 1 for all countries (except for Zimbabwe where it is 0.9), and is reduced where a patient reports greater levels of problems across the five dimensions.
PGA of osteoarthritis was assessed by asking a question from participants: "Considering all the ways your osteoarthritis in your knee or hip (index joint) affects you, how are you doing today?" Participants responded on a scale ranging from 1-5, where 1=very good (no symptom and no limitation of normal activities), 2= good (mild symptoms and no limitation of normal activities), 3= fair (moderate symptoms and limitation of some normal activities), 4= poor (severe symptoms and inability to carry out most normal activities), and 5 = very poor (very severe symptoms and inability to carry out all normal activities). Higher scores indicated worsening of condition.
PGA of osteoarthritis was assessed by asking a question from participants: "Considering all the ways your osteoarthritis in your knee or hip affects you, how are you doing today?" Participants responded on a scale ranging from 1-5, where, 1=very good (no symptom and no limitation of normal activities), 2= good (mild symptoms and no limitation of normal activities), 3= fair (moderate symptoms and limitation of some normal activities), 4= poor (severe symptoms and inability to carry out most normal activities), and 5 = very poor (very severe symptoms and inability to carry out all normal activities). Higher scores indicated worse condition. Percentage of participants with improvement of at least 2 points from Baseline in PGA of osteoarthritis were reported. Missing data was imputed using mixed BOCF/LOCF.
WOMAC: self-administered, disease-specific questionnaire which assesses clinically important, participant-relevant symptoms for pain, stiffness and physical function in participants with OA. The WOMAC pain subscale is a 5-item questionnaire used to assess the amount of pain experienced due to osteoarthritis of index joint during past 48 hours. It was calculated as the mean of scores from 5 individual questions scored on a NRS of 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain), where higher scores indicated higher pain. Total score range for WOMAC pain subscale score was 0 (no pain) to 10 (extreme pain), where higher scores indicated higher pain. Percentage of participants with cumulative reduction (as percent) (greater than 0% ; >= 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80 and 90%; = 100 %) in WOMAC pain subscale from Baseline to Week 16 were reported, participants (%) are reported more than once in categories specified. Missing data was imputed using mixed BOCF/LOCF.
