Eligible patients will begin once-daily dosing with 20 mg Fx-1006A at home on Day 1 (i.e., first dose) and will return to the clinical unit for study visits every 6 months.
Treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. A treatment emergent AE was defined as an event that emerged during the treatment period that was absent before treatment, or worsened during the treatment period relative to the pretreatment state. AEs included both serious and all non-serious adverse events. Relatedness to study drug was assessed by the investigator as (Yes/No).
The physical examination (including weight and vital signs) and the relevant end of study clinical laboratory tests (alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, blood urea nitrogen, gamma glutamyl transferase, creatinine, total bilirubin, international normalized ratio, troponin I, troponin T, and amino-terminal B-type natriuretic peptide) from Protocol Fx1B-201 will be used for Protocol Fx1B-303. If more than 30 days has elapsed between the final study visit of Protocol Fx1B-201 and Day 0 of Protocol Fx1B-303, an abbreviated physical examination (including weight and vital signs) and clinical laboratory assessments must be performed on Day 0.
An end of study visit including all safety and efficacy assessments will occur upon patient completion of the study, premature withdrawal (for any reason), or in the event of program discontinuation by the Sponsor.
Safety And Efficacy Evaluation Of Fx-1006a In Patients With V122i Or Wild-Type Transthyretin (TTR) Amyloid Cardiomyopathy
Laboratory parameters included hematology and biochemistry: alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), blood urea nitrogen, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), creatinine, total bilirubin, international normalized ratio (INR), troponin I, troponin T, prothrombin time, sodium, globulin potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, cholesterol, calcium, uric acid, inorganic phosphorous, thyroid-stimulating hormone, glucose, total thyroxine (T4), free T4, total proteins, prealbumin (transthyretin), albumin, hemoglobin, platelets, hematocrit, white blood cell count, red blood cell count, neutrophils, packed cell volume, lymphocytes, mean corpuscular volume, monocytes, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, eosinophils, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, basophils, retinol-binding protein, Urinalysis: bilirubin, pH, blood (free Hb), protein, nitrite, glucose, urobilinogen, ketones, specific gravity.
6MWT is a sub-maximal exercise test used to assess aerobic capacity and endurance. Participants were asked to walk as far as possible for 6 minutes at a pace that was comfortable to them, and were permitted to slow down, to stop, and to rest as necessary. In this outcome measure, participants were categorized based on the total distance walked as Level 1 = total distance walked less than (<) 300 meter; Level 2 = total distance walked between 300 to 374.9 meter; Level 3 = total distance walked between 375 to 449.9 meter; Level 4 = total distance walked greater than or equal to (>=) 450 meter.
NYHA classified participants in 4 classes: Class I: cardiac disease without limitations of physical activity. Ordinary physical activity caused no undue fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea or angina pain. Class II: cardiac disease with slight limitation of physical activity, comfortable at rest. Ordinary physical activity resulted in fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea or angina pain. Class III: cardiac disease with marked limitation of physical activity, comfortable at rest. Less than ordinary physical activity caused fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea or angina pain. Class IV: cardiac disease with inability to carry on any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms of cardiac insufficiency or angina syndrome might be present even at rest. If any physical activity was undertaken, discomfort was increased. Participants with change from baseline were classified as improved (shifted from higher to lower class), unchanged (no change in class) or worsened (shifted from lower to higher class).
NYHA classified participants in 4 classes. Class I included participants with cardiac disease without limitations of physical activity. Ordinary physical activity did not cause undue fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea, or anginal pain. Class II included participants with cardiac disease with slight limitation of physical activity. They were comfortable at rest. Ordinary physical activity resulted in fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea, or anginal pain. Class III included participants with cardiac disease with marked limitation of physical activity. They were comfortable at rest. Less than ordinary physical activity caused fatigue, palpitation, dyspnea, or anginal pain. Class IV included participants with cardiac disease with the inability to carry on any physical activity without discomfort. Symptoms of cardiac insufficiency or of the anginal syndrome might be present even at rest. If any physical activity was undertaken, discomfort was increased.
KCCQ is a 23-item participant-completed questionnaire that assesses health status and health-related quality of life in participants with heart failure. Eight domain scores were calculated for the KCCQ: physical limitation, social limitation, quality of life, self-efficacy, symptom stability, symptom frequency, symptom burden, and total symptoms (calculated as the mean of symptom frequency and symptom burden scores). Two summary scores were calculated: clinical summary (calculated as mean of physical limitation and total symptom scores) and overall summary (calculated as mean of physical limitation, social limitation, total symptoms, and quality of life scores). Each domain and both summary scores were scaled to range from 0 (worse health status) to 100 (best health status); higher scores represented better health status.
6MWT is a sub-maximal exercise test used to assess aerobic capacity and endurance. Participants were asked to walk as far as possible for 6 minutes at a pace that was comfortable to them, and were permitted to slow down, to stop, and to rest as necessary. Dyspnea: participants were asked to rate the difficulty of their breathing, pre-walk and post-walk at each visit, on a scale of range 0 (no breathlessness at all) to 10 (maximum breathlessness). Higher scores indicated more severity. Fatigue: participants were asked to rate the how tired they felt, pre-walk and post-walk at each visit, on a scale of range 0 (not at all) to 10 (maximal) Higher scores indicated more fatigue. At each visit, scores for pre-walk test, post-walk test and within visit difference (difference from post-walk to pre-walk) were evaluated. Change from baseline was calculated for each pre-walk test, post-walk test and within visit difference at Month 12.
Adverse events (AEs) and concomitant medication use will be collected at each 6-month visit to the clinical unit. Blood draws for clinical safety laboratory tests and abbreviated physical examinations (including weight and vital signs) will also be performed at each 6-month clinic visit. ECGs will be performed every 12 months on an annual basis. A telephone call will be made at 3-month intervals between clinic visits to assess safety and use of concomitant medications.
Echocardiography abnormalities included: absent respiratory variation of inferior vena cava, any valve thickening, aortic valve thickening, decreased respiratory variation of inferior vena cava, dilated inferior vena cava, E deceleration time less than or equal to (<=) 150 millisecond, E wave/A Wave (E/A) ratio >=2, ejection fraction < 50%, isovolumic relaxation time (IVRT) <=70 millisecond, left ventricular posterior wall thickness >=13 millimeter (mm), left ventricular septal thickness >= 13 mm, mitral valve thickening, pericardial effusion, pulmonary valve thickening, right ventricular thickness >=7 mm, tricuspid valve thickening, ratio between early mitral inflow velocity and mitral annular early diastolic velocity (e/e') Lateral greater than (>) 15, e/e' Septal >15.
