No or rare signs of Koebner phenomenon, confetti like or trichrome lesions could be present.
T-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving 100% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI100). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI = ((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
Faint, barely detectable loss of pigmentation mainly located on dorsal hands, feet, bony prominences, and/or limited areas.
Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The change from baseline in VitiQoL Behaviors Domain Score was analyzed using the MMRM analysis. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
The sIGA Score 0 represented "Clear" with no signs of loss of pigmentation with natural light or with Woods lamp examination.
The central read F-VASI was calculated using a formula that included contribution of affected facial surface areas showing all 6 different depigmentation rates (0.1, 0.25, 0.5, 0.75, 0.9 and 1) with a modified method: F-VASI (central read)=Ʃ [Affected Facial Surface Area] × 4 × [Depigmentation Rates]. Face was defined as the area from the hairline on top of the forehead to the jawline at the bottom of the cheeks. F-VASI (central read) ranged from 0.000 to 4.000 by defining the affected Facial Surface Area (expressed as the value between 0.0 to 1.0) being 4% of total Body Surface Area. Percent change from baseline in F-VASI = ((post-baseline F-VASI - baseline F-VASI)/baseline F-VASI)×100. This outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 75% improvement in central read F-VASI from baseline (F-VASI75). Negative percent change from baseline in F-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to Study Day 18.
AE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence in a study participant administered a product or medical device; the event did not necessarily need to have a causal relationship with the treatment or usage. An AE was considered a TEAE if the event started during the effective duration of treatment. All events that started on or after the first dosing day and time/start time, if collected, but before the last dose plus the lag time were flagged as TEAEs. SAE was defined as any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that resulted in death; was life threatening (immediate risk of death); requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or that was considered to be an important medical event. Causality to study treatment was determined by the investigator.
T-VASI was calculated by a formula that included contribution from 6 body regions (possible range, 0-100): T-VASI = Ʃ [Hand Units] × [Depigmentation]. One hand unit, which encompassed the palm plus the volar surface of all the digits, was approximately 1% of the total body surface area and was used as a guide to estimate the baseline percentage of vitiligo involvement of each body region. The body was divided into 6 mutually exclusive regions: face/neck, hands, upper extremities, trunk, lower extremities, and feet. The extent of depigmentation was expressed by the percentages: 0, 10%, 25%, 50%, 75%, 90% or 100%. The outcome measure was the percentage of participants achieving at least 90% improvement from baseline in T-VASI (T-VASI90). Percent change from baseline in T-VASI=((post-baseline T-VASI - baseline T-VASI)/baseline T-VASI)×100. Negative percent change from baseline in T-VASI signified an improvement. Baseline was defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1).
