The number of participants with a laboratory abnormality meeting specified criteria while on study treatment or during lag time are reported here. Baseline is defined as the last measurement prior to receiving study treatment. The list of urinalysis test parameters were as follows:pH, glucose (qual), protein (qual), blood (qual), ketones, nitrites, leukocyte esterase, microscopy, and spot urine albumin/creatinine ratio. The criteria of laboratory abnormality is defined as one of the following conditions was met: 1)associated with accompanying symptoms;2)Test result requires additional diagnostic testing or medical/surgical intervention;3)Test result leads to a change in study dosing (outside of any protocol specified dose adjustments) or discontinuation from the study, significant additional concomitant drug treatment, or other therapy;4)Test result is considered to be an AE by the investigator or sponsor.
The number of participants with a laboratory abnormality meeting the pre-specified criteria defined in the study protocol while on study treatment or during lag time are reported here. Baseline is defined as the last measurement prior to receiving study treatment. Laboratory data included hematology test, serum chemistry test, C-creative protein and viral surveillance. The criteria of laboratory abnormality is defined as one of the following conditions was met: 1)associated with accompanying symptoms;2)Test result requires additional diagnostic testing or medical/surgical intervention;3)Test result leads to a change in study dosing (outside of any protocol specified dose adjustments) or discontinuation from the study, significant additional concomitant drug treatment, or other therapy;4)Test result is considered to be an AE by the investigator or sponsor.
Study to Compare Oral PF-06651600, PF-06700841 and Placebo in Subjects With Moderate to Severe Ulcerative Colitis
For EQ-5D 3L, participant rated questionnaire to assess generic health status in two parts: single utility score and visual analog scale. For utility score, participants rated their current health state on 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety and depression with each dimension having three levels of function: 1 indicates no problem; 2 indicates some problem; 3 indicates extreme problem. Scoring formula developed by EuroQol Group assigns a utility value for each domain in the profile. Score was transformed and results in a total score range of 0.05 to 1.00; higher scores indicating a better health state. The EQ-5D VAS records the respondent's self rated health on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state).
The Mayo Score is a tool designed to measure disease activity for ulcerative colitis. The Mayo scoring system ranges from 0 to 12 points and consists of 4 subscores, which are stool frequency, rectal bleeding, findings on endoscopy and physician's global assessment. Each subscore graded 0 to 3 with the higher score indicating more severe disease activity. Clinical response was defined as decrease from baseline in total Mayo score of at least 3 points and at least 30%, with an accompanying decrease in the subscore for rectal bleeding of at least 1 point or absolute subscore for rectal bleeding of 0 or 1.
IBDQ is a psychometrically validated PRO instrument for measuring the disease specific quality of life in participants with IBD. The IBDQ is comprised of 32 items, which are grouped into 4 dimensions: bowel function, emotional status, systemic symptoms and social function. The 4 domains are scored as follows: Bowel symptoms: 10 to 70; Systemic symptoms: 5 to 35.; Emotional function: 12 to 84; Social function: 5 to 35. The total IBDQ score ranges from 32 to 224. For the total score and each domain, a higher score indicates better quality of life. The improvement in IBDQ bowel symptom domain was defined as an increase of ≥1.2 points from baseline in average score among bowel symptoms domain (items 1, 5, 9, 13, 17, 20, 22, 24, 26, 29).
