Duration of response (DoR) was the time from first documentation of PR or CR to date of first documentation of progressive disease (PD) or death due to any cause. PR: At least a 30% decrease in the sum of the longest diameters of target lesions (taking as reference the baseline sum), without progression of non-target lesions and no appearance of new lesions indicated partial response. CR: Disappearance of all target and non-target lesions, normalization of tumor marker levels, and no appearance of new lesions indicated complete response. PD: >=20% increase in the sum of the longest diameter of target lesions taking as references the smallest sum longest diameter recorded since the treatment started, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions, or the appearance of 1 or more new lesions.
PF-02341066 may work in cancer by blocking the cell growth, migration and invasion of tumor cells. PF-02341066 is a new class of drugs called c-Met/Hepatocyte growth factor receptor tyrosine kinase inhibitors. This compound is also an inhibitor of the anaplastic lymphoma kinase (called ALK) tyrosine kinase and ROS receptor tyrosine kinases. This research study is the first time PF-02341066 will be given to people. PF-02341066 is taken by mouth daily.
A Study Of Oral PF-02341066, A C-Met/Hepatocyte Growth Factor Tyrosine Kinase Inhibitor, In Patients With Advanced Cancer
Dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) was defined as any of the following: Hematologic- prolonged grade 4 neutropenia for >7 days. Febrile neutropenia, defined as grade 4 neutropenia with fever greater than (>)38.5 degree Celsius, both sustained over a 24 hour period, neutropenic infection: greater than or equal to (>=)Grade 3 neutropenia with Grade >=3 infection. Grade >=3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding or grade 4 lasting >=7 days Lymphopenia was not considered a DLT unless accompanied by infection. Other non-hematologic toxicity: Grade 3 or 4 toxicities (except for alopecia, Grade 3/4 hypophosphatemia, grade 3 hypertension with controlled blood pressure [less than (<) 140/90], and Grade 3/4 hyperuricemia without signs and symptoms of gout). Nausea, vomiting or diarrhea must persist at grade 3 or 4 despite maximal medical therapy.
