Percentage of participants with objective response based on assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. Treatment-emergent AEs were those with initial onset or increasing in severity after the first dose of study medication. All AEs were graded by the investigator according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.03. Grade 1 AEs are mild AEs; Grade 2 AEs are moderate AEs; Grade 3 AEs are severe AEs, Grade 4 AEs are life-threatening consequences and Grade 5 AEs are deaths related to AEs. Each AE was counted once for the participant in the most severe severity.
The disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR or SD according to the appropriate analysis set. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study.
A DLT was any of the following adverse events(AEs) in the first cycle of treatment (within 21 days of first dose or until participant received second infusion if there were treatment delays). (1)Hematologic: including Grade 4 neutropenia lasting >7 days; Febrile neutropenia; Grade >=3 neutropenic infection; Grade 4 anemia; Grade >=3 thrombocytopenia with clinically significant bleeding. (2) Hepatic, including Grade >=3 serum bilirubin, hepatic transaminase or alkaline phosphatase; alanine aminotransferase (ALT) or aspartate aminotransferase (AST) >=3.0 x upper limit of normal (ULN) concurrent with elevation in bilirubin >=2.0 x ULN; (3) Grade >=3 non-hematologic, non-hepatic major organ toxicities; delayed by >2 weeks in receiving the next scheduled cycle due to persisting toxicities attributable to PF-06647020. A participant was on study for at least 21 days to be evaluable for DLT observation, and could be replaced if they terminated study participation earlier than 21 days.
A Study Of PF-06647020 For Adult Patients With Advanced Solid Tumors
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. Treatment-emergent AEs were those with initial onset or increasing in severity after the first dose of study medication. All AEs were graded by the investigator according to the National Cancer Institute (NCI) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03. Grade 1 AEs are mild AEs; Grade 2 AEs are moderate AEs; Grade 3 AEs are severe AEs, Grade 4 AEs are life-threatening consequences and Grade 5 AEs are deaths related to AEs. Each AE was counted once for the participant in the most severe severity.
The disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR, non-CR/non-PD or stable disease (SD) according to the appropriate analysis set. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study.
A DLT was any of the following AEs in the first cycle of treatment (within 28 days of first dose or until participant received second infusion if there were treatment delayed) in the single agent dose escalation. (1)Hematologic: including Grade 4 neutropenia lasting >7 days; Febrile neutropenia; Grade >=3 neutropenic infection; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia; treatment delay >14 days because of hematologic AE; (2) Hepatic: including Grade>=3 serum bilirubin, hepatic transaminase or alkaline phosphatase; ALT or AST>=3.0 x ULN concurrent with elevation in bilirubin>=2.0 x ULN; (3) Grade >=3 non-hematologic, non-hepatic major organ toxicities; delayed by >2 weeks in receiving the next scheduled cycle due to persisting toxicities attributable to PF-06647020. Grade >=3 headache lasting >48 hours in presence of supportive care. A participant was on study for at least 28 days to be evaluable for DLT observation, and could be replaced if they terminated study participation earlier than 28 days.
To assess the safety and tolerability at increasing dose levels of PF-06647020 in patients with advanced solid tumors in order to determine the maximum tolerated dose and select the recommended Phase 2 dose.
Percentage of participants with objective response based on assessment of CR or PR according to RECIST version 1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions.
