Systemic reactions included fever, irritability, drowsiness, loss of or decreased appetite and were recorded by using an e-diary. Fever was graded as 38.0 to 38.4 degree Celsius (C), 38.5 to 38.9 degree C, 39.0 to 39.4 degree C, >39.5 to 40.0 degree C and >40.0 degree C. Irritability was graded as mild (easily consolable), moderate (requiring increased attention) and severe (inconsolable). Drowsiness was graded as mild (Increased or prolonged sleeping bouts), moderate (slightly subdued interfering with daily activity) and severe (disabling not interested in usual daily activity). Loss of or decreased appetite was graded as mild (decreased interest in eating), moderate (decreased oral intake) and severe (refusal to feed).
The purpose of this study is to investigate the immunogenicity, safety and tolerability of a new vaccine that might prevent meningococcal B disease. The study will be conducted in healthy toddlers aged between 12 and 24 months.
Systemic reactions included fever, irritability, drowsiness, loss of or decreased appetite and were recorded by using an e-diary. Fever was graded as 38.0 to 38.4 degree C, 38.5 to 38.9 degree C, 39.0 to 39.4 degree C, >39.5 to 40.0 degree C and >40.0 degree C. Irritability was graded as mild (easily consolable), moderate (requiring increased attention) and severe (inconsolable). Drowsiness was graded as mild (Increased or prolonged sleeping bouts), moderate (slightly subdued interfering with daily activity) and severe (disabling not interested in usual daily activity). Loss of or decreased appetite was graded as mild (decreased interest in eating), moderate (decreased oral intake) and severe (refusal to feed).
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received investigational product without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly; lack of efficacy in an approved indication; important medical event. A MAE was defined as a non-serious AE that resulted in an evaluation at a medical facility. An NDCMC was defined as a disease or medical condition that was not identified prior to study start and was expected to be persistent or otherwise long-lasting in its effects.
Systemic reactions included fever, vomiting, diarrhea, headache, fatigue, muscle pain and joint pain were recorded by using an e-diary. Fever was defined as a temperature of greater than or equal to (>=) 38.0 degree Celsius and was graded as 38.0 degree Celsius (C) to 38.4 degree C, 38.5 degree C to 38.9 degree C, 39.0 degree C to 39.4 degree C, 39.5 degree C to 40.0 degree C, >40.0 degree C. Vomiting was graded as mild (1 to 2 times in 24 hours), moderate (>2 times in 24 hours) and severe (requires IV hydration). Diarrhea was graded as mild (2 to 3 loose stools in 24 hours), moderate (4 to 5 loose stools in 24 hours), and severe (6 or more loose stools in 24 hours). Fatigue, headache, muscle pain and joint pain were graded as: mild (did not interfere with activity), moderate (some interference with activity) and severe (prevented daily routine activity). The use and type of antipyretic medication was also recorded in the e-diary daily.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received investigational product without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly; lack of efficacy in an approved indication; important medical event. A MAE was defined as a non-serious AE that resulted in an evaluation at a medical facility. An NDCMC was defined as a disease or medical condition that was not identified prior to study start and was expected to be persistent or otherwise long-lasting in its effects. Immediate AE was defined as AEs occurring within the first 30 minutes after investigational product administration.
