Laboratory parameters included hematological and chemistry parameters. Chemistry parameters included alanine aminotransferase, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, bilirubin, calcium, creatine kinase, creatinine, glucose, magnesium, phosphate, potassium and sodium. Hematology parameters included haemoglobin, leukocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils and platelet. Test abnormalities were graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03 as Grade 3= severe and Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling. Only categories with at least 1 participant with abnormality are reported in this outcome measure. Unscheduled visit was performed at any time during the study whenever necessary to assess for or follow-up on AEs, at the participant's request or if deemed necessary by the investigator.
The FACT-P was a 39-item participant questionnaire which assessed physical well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items), emotional well-being (6 items), functional well-being (7 items), and additional prostate cancer specific concerns (12 items). All items were scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The sum of scores on all 5 domains constitutes the global FACT-P. The global/total FACT-P score ranged from 0 (worst) to 156 (best), higher scores indicate better health status. Responders were those participants who had a 10-point improvement in their total FACT-P score, as compared with baseline, on two consecutive measurements obtained at least 3 weeks apart.
Safety and Efficacy Study of MDV3100 in Patients With Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Who Have Been Previously Treated With Docetaxel-based Chemotherapy
This is a phase 3 study to compare the clinical benefit of MDV3100 versus placebo in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer who have been previously treated with docetaxel-based chemotherapy.
Radiographic progression-free survival was defined as time from randomization to the earliest objective evidence of radiographic progression or death due to any cause. Participants were assessed for objective disease progression at regularly scheduled visits. The consensus guidelines of the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 2 were taken into consideration for the determination of disease progression. Radiographic disease progression was defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) 1.1 for soft tissue disease, or the appearance of two or more new bone lesions on bone scan. Progression at the first scheduled reassessment at Week 13 required a confirmatory scan 6 or more weeks later. Participants who did not reach the endpoint were right censored at their last assessment.
The proportion of participants with pain palliation was assessed for participants with a stable and sufficient pain burden at study entry. Pain burden was measured by question #3 of the Brief Pain Inventory (Short Form). This scale measures pain on a 0 to 10 scale with 0 indicating no pain and 10 indicating pain as bad as you can imagine. Pain palliation at Week 13 was determined for the proportion of men with baseline bone metastasis(es) who had baseline pain attributable to the metastasis(es). Palliation was defined as >=30% reduction in average pain score at Week 13 compared to baseline without a >=30% increase in analgesic use.
Criteria for abnormalities in vital signs included: sitting/supine systolic blood pressure (SBP) values: absolute result greater than (>) 180 millimeter of mercury (mmHg) and >40 mmHg increase from baseline (BL) and less than (<) 90 mmHg and >30 mmHg decrease from BL; diastolic blood pressure (DBP) values: absolute result >105 mmHg and >30 mmHg increase from BL and absolute result < 50 mmHg and >20 mmHg decrease from BL; any abnormalities in SBP or DBP; heart rate values: absolute result > 120 beats per minute (bpm) and >30 bpm increase from BL and absolute result < 50 bpm and >20 bpm decrease from BL or any abnormalities in heart rate. Unscheduled visit was performed at any time during the study whenever necessary to assess for or follow-up on AEs, at the participant's request or if deemed necessary by the investigator.
The best overall soft tissue response as assessed using RECIST v1.1 during the study was summarized using the investigators' response assessments and also the derived response assessments by treatment group. Only participants with measurable soft tissue disease at screening were included in this analysis. Participants with measurable disease at screening are participants who had at least 1 target lesion identified per RECIST v1.1 at screening. Percentage of participants summarizes the number of participants with complete or partial objective response (%). Soft Tissue assessment based on Eisenhauer EA, Therasse P, Bogaerts J et al. New response evaluation criteria in solid tumours: Revised RECIST guideline (version 1.1). Eur J Cancer 2009; 45:228-247.
Time to PSA progression was defined as time from randomization to PSA progression. Participants who did not reach the endpoint were right censored at their last assessment or for participants with no post-baseline PSA assessment, date of randomization. For participants with PSA declines at Week 13, the PSA progression date was defined as the date that a >=25% increase and an absolute increase of >=2 nanogram per milliliter (ng/mL) above the nadir was documented, which was confirmed by a second consecutive value obtained 3 or more weeks later (required only if PSA progression did not occur at last PSA assessment). For participants with no PSA declines at Week 13, PSA progression date was defined as the date that a >=25% increase and an absolute increase of >=2 ng/mL above the baseline was documented, which was confirmed by a second consecutive value 3 or more weeks later (required only if PSA progression did not occur at last PSA assessment).
