All-cause mortality and frequency of cardiovascular hospitalization were analyzed using Finkelstein-Schoenfeld method. The method combines all-cause mortality and frequency of CV-related hospitalizations in a hierarchical fashion using all-cause mortality first. The method compares every participant with every other participant within strata, assigning a +1 to the "better" participant and a -1 to the "worse" participant and 0 if they are "tied". Participants who discontinued for transplantation (heart transplantation and combined heart and liver transplantation) or for implantation of a cardiac mechanical assist device, were handled in the same manner as death. 'Win' represents a participant doing better based on hierarchical comparison. The reported unit is the total "wins" for each treatment group from performing such a hierarchical comparison across all 4 strata in the study.
Safety and Efficacy of Tafamidis in Patients With Transthyretin Cardiomyopathy
KCCQ is a 23-item participant-completed questionnaire that assesses health status and health-related quality of life in participants with heart failure. Eight domain scores were calculated for the KCCQ: Physical limitation, Social limitation, Quality of life, Self-efficacy, Symptom stability, Symptom frequency, Symptom burden, and Total symptoms (calculated as the mean of Symptom frequency and Symptom burden scores). Two summary scores were also calculated: Clinical Summary (calculated as mean of Physical limitation and Total symptom scores) and Overall Summary (calculated as mean of Physical limitation, Social limitation, Total symptoms, and Quality of life scores). Domain and summary scores were scaled to range from 0 (minimum) to 100 (maximum); higher scores represent better health status.
This Phase 3 study will investigate the efficacy, safety and tolerability of an oral daily dose of 20 mg or 80 mg tafamidis meglumine capsules compared to placebo in subjects with either transthyretin genetic variants or wild-type transthyretin resulting in amyloid cardiomyopathy.