
The study will assess the efficacy, safety, and immunogenicity of PF-06410293 and adalimumab in combination with methotrexate in subjects with moderately to severly active rheumatoid arthritis who have had an inadequate response to methotrexate.
Sixty-eight (68) joints were assessed by an independent blinded joint assessor to determine the number of joints that were considered tender. The 68 joints assessed were: upper body including temporomandibular, sternoclavicular, acromioclavicular; upper extremity including shoulder, elbow, wrist (radiocarpal, carpal and carpometacarpal considered as 1 unit), metacarpophalangeals (MCP I, II, III, IV, V), thumb interphalangeal, proximal interphalangeals (PIP II, III, IV, V), and distal interphalangeals (DIP II, III, IV, V); lower extremity including hip, knee, ankle, tarsus (subtalar, transverse tarsal and tarsometatarsal considered as 1 unit), metatarsophalangeals (MTP I, II, III, IV, V), great toe interphalangeal, proximal and distal interphalangeals combined (PIP and DIP II, III, IV, V).
The DAS assessment is a continuous composite measure derived using differential weighting given to each component. The components of the DAS28-4 (CRP) assessment included: tender joint count with 28 joints assessed, swollen joint count with 28 joints assessed, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and patient's global assessment of arthritis (PGA). DAS28-4 (CRP) was calculated as 0.56 sqrt (DAS 28 tender joint count) + 0.28 sqrt (DAS 28 swollen joint count) + 0.36 ln(CRP [mg/L] +1) + 0.014 (PGA [mm]) + 0.96. Higher score indicate more disease activity. The possible lowest score is 0.96. The possible highest score is difficult to be determined, due to indeterminable nature of hs-CRP level; assuming hs-CRP level is 0 to 500 mg/L, the possible highest score would be 6.8 (when hs-CRP is 0) to 9.04 (when hs-CRP is 500 mg/L).
In an additional optional portion of the study, during open label Treatment Period 3 (TP3), a subset of subjects used a Prefilled Pen (PFP) to administer up to 3 injections of their study treatment (PF-06410293) at home.
HAQ-DI assesses the degree of difficulty a participant had experienced during the past week in 8 domains of daily activities: dressing and grooming, arising, eating, walking, hygiene, reach, grip and other activities. Each activity category consisted of 2-3 items. For each question in the questionnaire, the level of difficulty was scored from 0 to 3 with 0 representing "no difficulty", 1 as "some difficulty", 2 as "much difficulty", and 3 as "unable to do". Any activity that required assistance from another individual or required the use of an assistive device would adjust to a minimum score of 2 to represent a more limited functional status. Overall score was computed as the sum of scores divided by the number of domains answered. Total possible score range was 0-3 with 0 representing "no difficulty", 1 as "some difficulty", 2 as "much difficulty", and 3 as "unable to do". Higher score indicate more difficulty in performing daily living activities.
The DAS assessment is a continuous composite measure derived using differential weighting given to each component. The components of the DAS28-4 (CRP) assessment included: tender joint count with 28 joints assessed, swollen joint count with 28 joints assessed, high-sensitivity C-reactive protein (hs-CRP) and patient's global assessment of arthritis (PGA). DAS28-4 (CRP) was calculated as 0.56 sqrt (DAS 28 tender joint count) + 0.28 sqrt (DAS 28 swollen joint count) + 0.36 ln(CRP [mg/L] +1) + 0.014 (PGA [mm]) + 0.96. The possible lowest score is 0.96. The possible highest score is difficult to be determined, due to indeterminable nature of hs-CRP level; assuming hs-CRP level is 0 to 500 mg/L, the possible highest score would be 6.8 (when hs-CRP is 0) to 9.04 (when hs-CRP is 500 mg/L). Higher score indicate more disease activity; DAS28-4 (CRP) <2.6 indicates remission.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs for Period 3 were events between first dose of study drug in Period 3 and up to Week 92 visit that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to prior state. Treatment-related TEAE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug. AEs included both serious and non-serious AEs.
A Study Of PF-06410293 (Adalimumab-Pfizer) And Adalimumab (Humira®) In Combination With Methotrexate In Subjects With Active Rheumatoid Arthritis (REFLECTIONS B538-02).
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs for Period 2 were events between first dose of study drug in Period 2 and up to Week 52 pre-dose assessments that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to prior state. Treatment-related TEAE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug. AEs included both serious and non-serious AEs.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs for Period 1 were events between first dose of study drug in Period 1 and up to Week 26 pre-dose assessments that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state. Treatment-related TEAE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug. AEs included both serious and non-serious AEs.