BPI-SF is an 11-item self-report questionnaire that is designed to assess the severity and impact of pain on daily functions. BPI-SF are 4 questions that assess pain intensity (worst, least, average, right now) and 7 questions that assess impact of pain on daily functions (general activity, mood, walking ability, normal work, relations with other people, sleep, enjoyment of life). Each question is answered on a scale ranging from 0 to 10; '0=No pain and 10=Pain as bad as you can imagine'. Measure can be scored by item, with lower scores being indicative of less pain or pain interference. Analysis is not final for this outcome measure at PCD, complete data will be posted at SCD.
Best ORR was defined as the percentage of participants with best overall soft tissue response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as per RECIST1.1 by an independent central review. RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 millimeter (mm). Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (less than 10 mm short axis); PR: at least 30 percent (%) decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum diameters.
Vital sign abnormalities criteria included: 1) Systolic blood pressure (SBP) in millimeters of mercury (mmHg): absolute result greater than (>) 180 mmHg and increase from baseline greater than or equal to (>=) 40 mmHg or absolute result < 90 mmHg and decrease from baseline > 30 mmHg; 2) Diastolic blood pressure (DBP) (mmHg): absolute result > 110 mmHg and increase from baseline >= 30 mmHg or absolute result < 50 mmHg and decrease from baseline > 20 mmHg or >= 20 mmHg increase from baseline; 3) Heart rate in beats per minutes (bpm): absolute result < 50 bpm and decrease from baseline > 20 bpm or absolute result > 120 bpm and increase from baseline > 30 bpm; Weight in kilogram: > 10% decrease from baseline.
DOR was defined as the time from the first objective evidence of soft tissue response (CR or PR, whichever is earlier) per RECIST 1.1 and no evidence of confirmed bone disease progression per PCWG3 to the date of first objective evidence of radiographic progression or death due to any cause without evidence of radiographic progression, whichever occurs first. RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (less than 10 mm short axis); PR: at least 30 % decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum diameters.
The purpose of this international, phase 2, open-label, response rate study of talazoparib is to assess the efficacy and safety of talazoparib in men with DNA repair defects metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) who previously received taxane-based chemotherapy and progressed on at least 1 novel hormonal agent (enzalutamide and/or abiraterone acetate/prednisone).
A Study of Talazoparib in Men With DNA Repair Defects and Metastatic Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer
Time to objective response was defined as the time from first dose of talazoparib to the first objective evidence of soft tissue response with no evidence of confirmed bone disease progression on bone scan per prostate cancer working Group 3 (PCWG3). Soft tissue response is defined as a best overall response of CR or PR per RECIST 1.1 by independent central review. RECIST 1.1 criteria, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Any pathological lymph nodes (whether target or non-target) must have reduction in short axis to less than 10 mm. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (less than 10 mm short axis); PR: at least 30 % decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions taking as reference baseline sum diameters.
The EQ-5D-5L consists of two sections, the EQ-5D descriptive system and the EQ visual analogue scale (EQ VAS).The EQ-5D descriptive system comprises the following five dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression with five response levels for each dimension: no problems, slight problems, moderate problems, severe problems and extreme problems. The EQ-5D VAS is a 20 cm vertical scale where patients can mark from 0 (worst health imaginable) to 100 (best health imaginable). Overall scores range from 0 to 1, with low scores representing a higher level of dysfunction. Analysis is not final for this outcome measure at PCD, complete data will be posted at SCD.