A Study Of Crizotinib Versus Chemotherapy In Previously Untreated ALK Positive East Asian Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients
VSAQ-ALK is a self-report measure that was developed to assess the problems of visual disturbances and symptoms may include the appearance of overlapping shadows and after images; shimmering, flashing or trailing lights; strings, streamers, or floaters; as well as hazy or blurry vision. The participants answered "Yes" to the first question (Q1) of VSAQ-ALK "Have you experienced any visual disturbances?" were considered to have experienced visual disturbance and were instructed to complete the rest of the questionnaire. The percentage of participants who responded to Q1 of VSAQ-ALK as "Yes" and as "No" during each study cycle was calculated as (n/N*)*100 where N* was the number of participants who had completed Q1.
The QLQ-LC13 consisted of 1 multi-item scale and 9 single items that assessed the specific symptoms (dyspnea, cough, hemoptysis, and site specific pain), side effects (sore mouth, dysphagia, neuropathy, and alopecia), and pain medication use of lung cancer participants receiving chemotherapy. The QLQ-LC13 Coughing, Dyspnoea and Pain in chest each ranged from 0-100 with higher scores indicating a high level of symptomatology/problems. TTD in pain in chest, dyspnea, or cough from the QLQ-LC13 was a composite endpoint defined as the time from randomization to the earliest time the participant's scale scores showed a 10 point or greater increase after baseline in any of the 3 symptoms.
Disease Control Rate (DCR) at 12 weeks is defined as the percent of participants with CR, PR or stable disease (SD) at 12 weeks according to RECIST version 1.1 as determined by the IRR. The best response of SD can be assigned if SD criteria were met at least once after randomization at a minimum interval of 6 weeks. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions and disappearance of all non-target lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions.
Percentage of participants with objective response of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to RECIST version 1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions and disappearance of all non-target lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions.
Agreement between central laboratory anaplastic lymphoma kinase (ALK) fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and ALK immunohistochemistry (IHC) test results is based on analysis of participants in the Molecular Profiling (MP) evaluable population that have an ALK IHC result and an ALK FISH result of either positive or negative only. This MP evaluable population included participants who screen failed, which their ALK test results were negative based on FISH test. Tumor tissue samples from these screen failure participants were consented and kept. These samples served as a part of negative sample set for evaluation of IHC test and/or polymerase chain reaction (PCR) to determine ALK fusion events. Participants with FISH results of uninformative and assay not performed and IHC results of valid IHC status not available were excluded from the analysis of agreement between central laboratory ALK FISH and ALK IHC test results.
PFS was defined as the time from the date of randomization to the date of the first documentation of objective tumor progression (by IRR) or death on study due to any cause, whichever occured first. If tumor progression data included more than 1 date, the first date was used. PFS (in months) was calculated as (first event date - randomization date +1)/30.44. Progression is defined using RECIST v1.1, as at least a 20% increase (including an absolute increase of at least 5 millimeters) in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study and/or unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions and/or appearance of 1 or more new lesions.
This is a Phase III, Randomized, Open-label, Efficacy and Safety Study of Crizotinib single agent versus Chemotherapy Regimens (Pemetrexed/Cisplatin or Pemetrexed/Carboplatin) in First-Line ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase) Positive East Asian Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer Patients. The objective of the study is to demonstrate that Crizotinib is superior to first-line chemotherapy pemetrexed/cisplatin or pemetrexed/carboplatin in prolonging Progression Free Survival (PFS) in East Asian patients with advanced Non-Squamous NSCLC whose tumors harbor a translocation or inversion event involving the ALK (Anaplastic Lymphoma Kinase) gene locus.