Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 60 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
ACR50 response is a >= 50% improvement in TJC (28) and SJC (28) and >=50% improvement in 3 of the 5 remaining ACR-core criteria: 1) PGA of arthritis, 2) PtGA of arthritis, 3) participant's assessment of arthritis pain, 4) participant's assessment of functional disability by HAQ-DI, and 5) CRP (mg/L) at each visit. PGA: physician's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis), higher scores=worse condition. PtGA: participant's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 mm (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis condition), higher scores = worse condition. Participant's assessment of arthritis pain: assessed on VAS, 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (most severe pain), higher score = more pain. HAQ-DI: functional disability evaluation, score: 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (unable to do), higher score=more disability.
MACE included the cardiovascular death, non-fatal myocardial infarction (MI) and non-fatal stroke of any classification, including reversible focal neurologic defects with imaging evidence of a new cerebral lesion consistent with ischemia or hemorrhage. Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 60 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
ACR20 response is a >= 20% improvement in TJC (28) and SJC (28) and >=20% improvement in 3 of the 5 remaining ACR-core criteria: 1) PGA of arthritis, 2) PtGA of arthritis, 3) participant's assessment of arthritis pain, 4) participant's assessment of functional disability by HAQ-DI, and 5) CRP (mg/L) at each visit. PGA: physician's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis), higher scores=worse condition. PtGA: participant's global assessment of arthritis on VAS, 0 mm (very well) to 100 mm (worst arthritis condition), higher scores = worse condition. Participant's assessment of arthritis pain: assessed on VAS, 0 mm (no pain) to 100 mm (most severe pain), higher score = more pain. HAQ-DI: functional disability evaluation, score: 0 (no difficulty) to 3 (unable to do), higher score=more disability.
Opportunistic infections (OI) were reviewed and adjudicated by the opportunistic infection review committee (OIRC). Incidence rate was defined as the total number of participants with admissible events divided by the total (for all qualifying participants) time at risk for the cohort/treatment group of interest. The risk period (RP) was the minimum of last contact date or last study treatment dose date + 28 days. The last contact date was the maximum of (AE start date, AE stop date, last study visit date, withdrawal date, telephone contact date). If a participant died, last contact date was the death date. First events were counted within the RP. If a participant did not have an event or had an event but outside the risk period, the participant was censored at the end of RP.
