DR:date of first documentation of objective tumour response(OR) confirmed to date of first documentation of PD/death due to any cause,whichever occurred first.PD per RECIST 1.1:>=20%increase in sum of longest dimensions(LD) of target lesions,reference to smallest sum of LD recorded since treatment started/appearance of 1 or more new lesions/increase of at least 5mm addition to relative increase of 20%.DR calculated only for participants with confirmed OR.Participants lacking evaluation of tumour response after date of first study drug dose was censored on date of first dose unless death occurred prior to 18 weeks.If participants had at least 1 on-study assessment,PFS was censored on date of last evaluable tumour disease assessment documenting absence of PD for participants who were alive and progression free at time of analysis/had documentation of PD/death after>=2 consecutive missed tumour assessments/given anti-tumour treatment other than study drug prior to documented PD/death.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant and jeopardized the participants or required treatment to prevent other AE outcomes for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. AEs were graded according to the Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03 and coded using the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities (MedDRA) as Grade 3: Severe, Grade 4: Life threatening, Grade 5: Death related to AE. Participants were counted once according to the maximum grade observed.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant and jeopardized the participants or required treatment to prevent other AE outcomes for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs are events which occurred between first dose of study drug and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state. Relatedness to study drug was assessed by the investigator.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant and jeopardized the participants or required treatment to prevent other AE outcomes for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent AEs are events which occurred between first dose of study drug and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state.
ECOG performance status was used to assess how disease affect the daily living abilities of a participant. It was measured on a scale ranging from 0 to 4, where 0=fully active (able to carry on all pre-disease activities without restriction); 1=restricted in physically strenuous activity but ambulatory (able to carry out light/sedentary work); 2=ambulatory and capable of all self-care but unable to carry out any work activities (for more than 50% of waking hours); 3=capable of limited self-care, confined to bed or chair (for >50% of waking hours); 4=completely disabled, not capable of any self-care, totally confined to bed or chair. Higher scores signified =more functional impairment of a participant.
Objective response rate was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed complete response (CR) or confirmed partial response (PR), as assessed by response evaluation criteria in solid tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. Confirmed responses were those that persist on repeated imaging for at least 4 weeks after initial documentation of response. CR was defined as disappearance of all target lesions and the reduction in short axis of any pathological lymph nodes to <10 mm. PR was defined as a 30% or more decrease in the sum of longest dimensions of the target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum of longest dimensions.
A Dose Finding Study To Evaluate Safety, Drug Interaction, Tumor Markers Of Axitinib In Combination With MK-3475 In Adult Patients With Previously Untreated Advanced Renal Cell Cancer
Despite substantial improvements of patients outcome in advanced RCC, durable and complete response is uncommon. The majority of patients eventually develop resistance and exhibit disease progression. Combining a PD-1 inhibitor, which has shown single-agent efficacy with axitinib may provide additional clinical benefit compared to axitinib alone.
PFS: time from date of first dose of study drug to the date of first documented PD or death on study due to any cause. PD as per RECIST v1.1 defined as at least a 20% increase in sum of longest dimensions of target lesions, reference to smallest sum of longest dimensions recorded since treatment started, or appearance of 1 or more new lesions or increase of at least 5 mm in addition to relative increase of 20%. Participants lacking an evaluation of tumor response after date of first study drug dose had event time censored on date of first dose unless death occurred prior to 18 weeks. If participants had at least 1 on-study assessment, PFS data was censored on date of last evaluable tumor disease assessment documenting absence of PD for participants who were alive and progression free at the time of analysis or had documentation of PD or had death after >=2 consecutive missed tumor assessments or were given anti-tumor treatment other than study drug prior to documented PD or death.
DLT was defined as any of the following adverse events (AEs) occurring in the first two cycles of treatment which were attributable to one or both the study drugs: 1) Grade 4 neutropenia, 2) Febrile neutropenia lasting greater than (>) 1 hour, 3) Grade greater than or equal to (>=) 3 neutropenia with infection, 4) Grade >=3 thrombocytopenia with bleeding, 4) Grade 4 thrombocytopenia, 5) Any grade >=3 non-hematologic: non-laboratory toxicities despite maximum supportive therapy or hypertension despite maximal medical therapy, 6) Grade >=3 non-hematologic toxicities resulted in hospitalisation or medical intervention 7) Inability to complete at least 75 percent (%) of axitinib dosing or 2 infusions of pembrolizumab within the DLT observation period (up to 42 days) due to treatment related toxicity. Severity of AEs was graded according to NCI (National Cancer Institute) Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) version 4.03.