EQ-5D-5L is a standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health status in terms of a single index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consisted of two components: a health state profile (descriptive system) and a visual analogue scale (VAS). EQ-5D health state profile is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Each dimension has 5 response levels: 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems and 5=extreme problems. EQ-5D-5L health status index score range between 0 to 1. Higher score indicated worse health status. In VAS participants rate their overall health status from 0 (worst imaginable) to 100 (best imaginable), where higher scores indicated better health status.
DOR:time from first documentation of objective tumor response (CR/PR) to first documentation of PD/death due to any cause, whichever occurred first.PR:>=30% decrease under baseline of sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. CR for target disease:complete disappearance of all target lesions with exception of nodal disease.CR for non-target disease: disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels. PD is any of following:1)Locoregional PD confirmed by pathology to verify radiographic changes denote true tumor progression and not radiation effects or non-malignant contrast enhancement.2)Locoregional clinically detectable progression confirmed by pathology.3)Surgical removal of primary tumor with tumor present on final pathology.4)Salvage neck dissection >20 weeks after completion of CRT with tumor present on final pathology.5)Metastatic PD. DOR data was censored on date of last adequate tumor assessment for participants with no overall response.
PFS was defined as the time (in months) from the date of randomization to the first documentation of objective progressive disease (PD) per modified RECIST v1.1 as assessed by Investigator or death (due to any cause), whichever occurred first. Analysis was performed using Kaplan Meier method. PD refers to any of following: 1) Locoregional PD confirmed by pathology to verify radiographic changes represent true tumor progression and not radiation effects or non-malignant contrast enhancement. 2) Locoregional clinically detectable progression confirmed by pathology. 3) Surgical removal (salvage) of primary tumor with tumor present on final pathology. 4) Salvage neck dissection greater than (>) 20 weeks after completion of CRT with tumor present on final pathology. 5) Metastatic PD. PFS data was censored on date of last adequate tumor assessment for participants with no PFS event.
Participants with LA SCCHN were administered with placebo IV injection matched to avelumab on Day 1 of the Lead-in Phase (7 days) and on Days 8, 25 and 39 in CRT phase (63 days). In CRT phase participants also received SOC CRT: cisplatin mg/m^2 on Days 1, 22 and 43 + IMRT 5 days a week. CRT phase was followed by maintenance phase (12 months) in which participants received placebo IV injection every 2 weeks. All participants were followed for safety 30 days after the last study treatment administration or until the time of initiation of new systemic anticancer treatment. If any concern arose participants were followed up on Day 90 via telephone call thereafter in long term follow up period every 16 weeks for survival and new systemic anticancer treatment.
This is a phase 3 randomized, placebo controlled study to evaluate the safety and anti-tumor activity of Avelumab in combination with standard of care chemoradiation (SoC CRT) versus SoC CRT alone in front-line treatment of patients with locally advanced head and neck cancer.
Study To Compare Avelumab In Combination With Standard of Care Chemoradiotherapy (SoC CRT) Versus SoC CRT for Definitive Treatment In Patients With Locally Advanced Squamous Cell Carcinoma Of The Head And Neck (JAVELIN HEAD AND NECK 100)
Objective response (OR) was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) per RECIST v1.1 recorded from randomization until disease progression per modified RECIST v1.1 or death due to any cause. A participant was considered to have achieved an OR if the participant had a CR or PR which did not need to be confirmed at a subsequent assessment. CR for target disease: complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis less than [<] 10 millimeter [mm]). CR for non-target disease: disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker levels. All lymph nodes must be 'normal' in size (<10 mm short axis) . PR: Greater than or equal to (>=) 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The ORR was estimated by dividing the number of participants with OR (CR or PR) by the number of participants randomized.
Participants with locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck (LA SCCHN) were administered with avelumab 10 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) intravenous (IV) injection on Day 1 of the Lead-in Phase (7 days) and on Days 8, 25 and 39 in CRT phase (63 days). In CRT phase participants also received SOC CRT: cisplatin 100 milligram per square meter (mg/m^2) on Days 1, 22, 43 and intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) 5 days a week. CRT phase was followed by maintenance phase (12 months) in which participants received avelumab 10 mg/kg IV injection every 2 weeks. All participants were followed for safety 30 days after the last study treatment administration or until the time of initiation of new systemic anticancer treatment. If any concern arose participants were followed up on Day 90 via telephone call thereafter in long term (LT) follow up period every 16 weeks for survival and new systemic anticancer treatment.
