This is a 12-month study investigating the effectiveness and safety of tofactinib in treating the signs and symptoms of active psoriatic arthritis and improving physical function and preserving bone structure in patients with an inadequate response to a traditional, nonbiologic disease-modifying antirheumatic drug. Adalimumab is used as a comparator.
The EQ-5D is a descriptive system of health-related quality of life states consisting of 5 dimensions (mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, anxiety/depression) each of which can take 1 of 3 responses. The responses record 3 levels of severity (no problems [1], some or moderate problems [2], or extreme problems [3]) within a particular EQ-5D dimension. Standard vertical 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 mm (best imaginable health state) visual analogue scale (similar to a thermometer) for recording an individual's rating for their current health-related quality of life state; higher scores indicate a better health state, with a higher value representing better health status.
PASI determines psoriasis severity based on lesion severity & percentage body surface area (BSA) affected. Lesion severity is assessed for erythema, induration, & scaling, evaluated separately for head & neck, upper limbs, trunk, & lower limbs & rated for each body area according to a 5 point scale: 0=no involvement; 1=slight; 2=moderate; 3=marked; 4=very marked. BSA involvement is the extent (%) of body area affected by psoriasis & is assigned a score: 0=no involvement; 1=0-9%; 2=10-29%; 3=30-49%; 4=50-69%; 5=70-89%; 6=90-100%. In each area, sum of severity rating scores is multiplied by the score representing the percentage of area involved by psoriasis, multiplied by a weighting factor (head 0.1; upper limbs 0.2; trunk 0.3; lower limbs 0.4). The sum of numbers obtained for the 4 body areas is the PASI score & can vary in increments of 0.1 & range from 0.0 to 72.0, higher scores represent greater severity of psoriasis. PASI75 is defined as a 75% reduction from baseline in PASI.
The SF-36v2 acute is a 36-item measure that evaluates 8 domains: physical functioning, role physical, bodily pain, general health, vitality, social functioning, role-emotional, and mental health. An additional item measures health transition. The 8 health domains are aggregated into two summary scores known as the physical component summary (PCS) score and the mental component summary (MCS) score. Norm-based domain scores, PCS and MCS scores are used in the analyses; each of which has a population mean of 50 with a standard deviation (SD) of 10 points, and ranges from minus infinity to plus infinity. A higher PCS score represents better physical health status.
Efficacy And Safety Of Tofacitinib In Psoriatic Arthritis: Comparator Study
FACIT-F is a 13-item questionnaire, with each item score ranging from 0 to 4. Three endpoints are derived: change in FACIT-F total score, change in FACIT-F experience domain score, and change in FACIT-F impact domain score. FACIT-F total score (range 0-52) is calculated by summing the 13 items. FACIT-F experience domain score (range 0-20) is calculated by summing 5 items : I feel fatigued, I feel weak all over, I feel listless ("washed out"), I feel tired, and I have energy, while FACIT-F impact domain score (range 0-32) is calculated by summing the remaining 8 items. All responses are added with equal weight to obtain the total score. Higher scores represent better (less) fatigue experience.
FACIT-F is a 13-item questionnaire, with each item scored on a 5-point scale ranging from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). Three endpoints are derived: change in FACIT-F total score, change in FACIT-F experience domain score, and change in FACIT-F impact domain score. FACIT-F total score (range 0 to 52) is calculated by summing the 13 items. FACIT-F experience domain score (range 0-20) is calculated by summing 5 items : I feel fatigued, I feel weak all over, I feel listless ("washed out"), I feel tired, and I have energy, while FACIT-F impact domain score (range 0-32) is calculated by summing the remaining 8 items. All responses are added with equal weight to obtain the total score. Higher scores represent better fatigue status.
FACIT-F is a 13-item questionnaire, with each item score ranging from 0 to 4. Three endpoints are derived: change in FACIT-F total score, change in FACIT-F experience domain score, and change in FACIT-F impact domain score. FACIT-F total score (range 0-52) is calculated by summing the 13 items. FACIT-F experience domain score (range 0-20) is calculated by summing 5 items : I feel fatigued, I feel weak all over, I feel listless ("washed out"), I feel tired, and I have energy, while FACIT-F impact domain score (range 0-32) is calculated by summing the remaining 8 items. All responses are added with equal weight to obtain the total score. Higher scores represent better (less) fatigue impact on daily functioning.