DR: time from first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR) to first documentation of objective progressive disease (PD) or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. If no progression or death on study was observed, or given antitumor treatment other than study drug, participants were censored on date of last on-study tumor assessment. RECIST v1.1, a) PD: >=20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes baseline sum if that is the smallest on study), sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of >=5 mm, appearance of 1 or more new lesions, unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions; b) CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (<10 mm short axis); c) PR: >=30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters.
PFS was defined as the time from the date of the first dose of crizotinib to first documentation of objective PD or to death on study due to any cause, whichever occurred first. If no progression or death on study was observed, or given antitumor treatment other than study drug, participants were censored on date of last on-study tumor assessment. RECIST v1.1, PD: at least a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study (this includes baseline sum if that is the smallest on study). In addition to the relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions is also considered a sign of progression. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.
To assess treatment effectiveness and safety of oral crizotinib administered to East Asian patients with Advanced Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer (NSCLC) that is confirmed to be positive for a ROS1 positive gene mutation (translocation or inversion) and confirmed negative for an ALK mutation
TTR was defined as the time from the date of first dose to first documentation of objective tumor response (CR or PR), that was subsequently confirmed. For participants proceeding from PR to CR, the onset of PR was taken as the onset of response. RECIST v1.1 (as determined by IRR), a) CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (<10 mm short axis); b) PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters.
Overall objective response (ORR) was defined as the number of patients with a best overall response of confirmed Complete Response or confirmed Partial Response according to RECIST v1.1 (as determined by Independent Radiology Review [IRR]), relative to the total population of response-evaluable participants. Per RECIST v1.1, CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (<10 mm short axis); PR: at least 30% decrease in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum diameters. Confirmed responses were those that persisted on repeat imaging at least 4 weeks after the initial documentation of response.
Phase II Safety and Efficacy Study of Crizotinib in East Asian Patients With ROS1 Positive, ALK Negative Advanced NSCLC
DCR at 8 weeks was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, confirmed PR, or stable disease (SD) at 8 weeks, respectively, relative to the total population of response evaluable participants. RECIST v1.1 (as determined by IRR), a) CR: disappearance of all target lesions. Disappearance of all non-target lesions and normalization of tumor marker level. All lymph nodes must be non-pathological in size (<10 mm short axis); b) PR: at least a 30% decrease in the sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the baseline sum diameters. SD: neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study.
Treatment-emergent AEs :between first dose of study drug and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. Relatedness to crizotinib was assessed by the investigator. Treatment-related AE: any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. Serious adverse event (SAE):an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Grade 3 (Severe) events=unacceptable or intolerable events, significantly interrupting usual daily activity, require systemic drug therapy/other treatment. Grade 4 (Life-threatening) events caused participant to be in imminent danger of death.
