Geometric mean titers of antibodies against each serogroup were assessed using rSBA. Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). rSBA titers are expressed as 1/dilution. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with hSBA titers >=1:4 and >=1:8 against each serogroup at Year 1, 3 and 5 after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1, 3 and 5 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
OPA titers were determined for anti-pneumococcal serotypes: OPSONO-1, OPSONO-3, OPSONO-4, OPSONO-5, OPSONO-6A, OPSONO-6B, OPSONO-7F, OPSONO-9V, OPSONO-14, OPSONO-18C, OPSONO-19A, OPSONO-19F and OPSONO-23F. Percentage of participants with OPA titers >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of Prevnar 13 are reported. ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1 included all evaluable participants who met eligibility criteria, complied with the procedures defined in the protocol and with no elimination criteria during the study from the ATP cohort for safety, received all study vaccines at Month 0, had assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen component at Visit 2, those with available blood sample at Visit 2 for PCV13 group.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 and >=1:128 against each serogroup at Year 3 after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 3 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with hSBA titers >=1:4 and >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
GMCs for anti-pneumococcal antibodies (anti-1, anti-3, anti-4, anti-5, anti-6A, anti-6B, anti-7F, anti-9V, anti-14, anti-18C, anti-19A, anti-19F and anti-23F) were measured in microgram per milliliter (mcg/mL). ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1 included all evaluable participants who met eligibility criteria, complied with the procedures defined in the protocol and with no elimination criteria during the study from the ATP cohort for safety, received all study vaccines at Month 0, had assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen component at Visit 2 (Month 1), and had available blood sample at Visit 2 (Month 1) for PCV13 group.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:128 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. According-to-protocol (ATP) cohort for persistence Year 1 population included all participants who met all eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present with a medical condition or received product leading to exclusion or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 and >=1:128 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Geometric mean titers of antibodies against each serogroup were assessed using hSBA. Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). hSBA titers are expressed as 1/dilution. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 and >=1:128 against each serogroup at Year 1, 3 and 5 after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1, 3 and 5 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Immunogenicity and Safety Study of 1 and 2 Doses of GlaxoSmithKline (GSK) Biologicals' Meningococcal Vaccine MenACWY-TT (GSK134612) in Toddlers, Persistence up to 5 Years After Vaccination and Co-administration With Pfizer's Prevenar 13™Vaccine
The purpose of this study is to compare the immediate and long term (up to 5 years) immunogenicity and safety of GSK Biologicals' MenACWY-TT vaccine when given as a single dose or as 2 doses to toddlers aged 12 to 14 months. Also, this study will also assess if co-administration of GSK Biologicals' MenACWY-TT with the booster dose of Pfizer's Prevenar 13 adversely impacts the immunogenicity of either of the vaccines.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of 2 doses of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Geometric mean titers of antibodies against each serogroup were assessed using rSBA. Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). rSBA titers are expressed as 1/dilution. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1, 3 and 5 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Antibody concentrations were determined for anti-pneumococcal antibodies: anti-1, anti-3, anti-4, anti-5, anti-6A, anti-6B, anti-7F, anti-9V, anti-14, anti-18C, anti-19A, anti-19F and anti-23F. Percentage of participants with antibody concentrations >=0.15 mcg/mL, >=0.26 mcg/mL and >=0.35 mcg/mL against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of Prevnar 13 are reported. ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1 included all evaluable participants who met eligibility criteria, complied with the procedures defined in the protocol and with no elimination criteria during the study from the ATP cohort for safety, received all study vaccines at Month 0, had assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen component at Visit 2, those with available blood sample at Visit 2 for PCV13 group.
Geometric mean titers of antibodies against each serogroup were assessed using hSBA. Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). hSBA titers are expressed as 1/dilution. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1, 3 and 5 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
