Geometric mean titers of antibodies against each serogroup were assessed using rSBA. Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). rSBA titers are expressed as 1/dilution. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with hSBA titers >=1:4 and >=1:8 against each serogroup at Year 1, 3 and 5 after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1, 3 and 5 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
OPA titers were determined for anti-pneumococcal serotypes: OPSONO-1, OPSONO-3, OPSONO-4, OPSONO-5, OPSONO-6A, OPSONO-6B, OPSONO-7F, OPSONO-9V, OPSONO-14, OPSONO-18C, OPSONO-19A, OPSONO-19F and OPSONO-23F. Percentage of participants with OPA titers >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of Prevnar 13 are reported. ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1 included all evaluable participants who met eligibility criteria, complied with the procedures defined in the protocol and with no elimination criteria during the study from the ATP cohort for safety, received all study vaccines at Month 0, had assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen component at Visit 2, those with available blood sample at Visit 2 for PCV13 group.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 and >=1:128 against each serogroup at Year 3 after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 3 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with hSBA titers >=1:4 and >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
GMCs for anti-pneumococcal antibodies (anti-1, anti-3, anti-4, anti-5, anti-6A, anti-6B, anti-7F, anti-9V, anti-14, anti-18C, anti-19A, anti-19F and anti-23F) were measured in microgram per milliliter (mcg/mL). ATP cohort for immunogenicity post dose 1 included all evaluable participants who met eligibility criteria, complied with the procedures defined in the protocol and with no elimination criteria during the study from the ATP cohort for safety, received all study vaccines at Month 0, had assay results available for antibodies against at least one study vaccine antigen component at Visit 2 (Month 1), and had available blood sample at Visit 2 (Month 1) for PCV13 group.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:128 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. ATP cohort for persistence Year 1 included all participants who met eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present medical condition, received product or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
Serogroups included neisseria meningitidis serogroup A (MenA), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup C (MenC), Neisseria meningitidis serogroup W-135 (MenW-135) and Neisseria meningitidis serogroup Y (MenY). Percentage of participants with rSBA titers >=1:8 against each serogroup at 1 month after administration of MenACWY-TT are reported. According-to-protocol (ATP) cohort for persistence Year 1 population included all participants who met all eligibility criteria, received complete primary vaccination series, had assay results available for at least 1 antigen tested, complied with procedures and intervals in protocol, did not present with a medical condition or received product leading to exclusion or were non-compliant with protocol-defined serum sampling windows or lack of availability of immunogenicity results at the previous time point.
