Following parameters were analyzed for laboratory examination: hematology (anemia, hemoglobin increased, lymphocyte count decreased, lymphocyte count increased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased, white blood cell decreased); chemistries (increase of alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, blood bilirubin, CPK, creatinine, gamma-glutamyl transferase [GGT], lipase, and serum amylase); urinalysis (proteinuria); coagulation (activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged, international normalized ratio [INR] increased). Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grade 0 = No Change from normal or reference range (this grade is not included in the CTCAE v4.03 document but may used in certain circumstances). Grade 1 = mild adverse event (AE). Grade 2 = moderate AE; Grade 3 = severe AE. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE.
A Dose Escalation Study Of PF-06801591 In Melanoma, Head And Neck Cancer (SCCHN), Ovarian, Sarcoma, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Urothelial Carcinoma or Other Solid Tumors
DOSD was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier approach for each tumor type. Stable disease (SD) was defined as not qualifying for complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or progression. All target lesions must have been assessed. Stable could follow PR only in the rare case that the sum increased by less than 20% from the nadir, but enough that a previously documented 30% decrease no longer held. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must have decreased to normal size (short axis < 10 mm). All target lesions must have been assessed. PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. All target lesions must have been assessed.
DOR was defined as the time from start date (which was the date of first documentation of PR or CR) to date of first documentation of objective progression or death. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. Objective progression was defined as 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed (over baseline if no decrease in the sum was observed during therapy), with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm. As this outcome measure was a secondary endpoint defined in the protocol to investigate preliminary signal of efficacy, the results were analyzed and are reported for Part 1 dose-escalation groups combined to provide more statistically meaningful results, instead of results analyzed by dose level with very limited number of participants in each group.
AE = any untoward medical occurrence in participant who received study treatment without regard to possibility of causal relationship. Treatment-emergent events = between first dose of study treatment and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. A serious adverse event (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grade 3 = severe AE. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE.
ORR was defined as percentage of participants with confirmed objective response (OR) of complete response (CR) and partial response (PR) based on RECIST version 1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis < 10 mm). All target lesions must be assessed. PR was defined as >= 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. All target lesions must be assessed.
Treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study treatment in a participant who received study treatment. Treatment-emergent events = between first dose of study treatment and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. An SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-related AEs and SAEs were determined by the investigator. Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grade 3 = severe AE. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE.
TTR was the time to confirmed or unconfirmed complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) based on investigator assessment per RECIST v1.1 by tumor type. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must have decreased to normal size (short axis < 10 mm). All target lesions must have been assessed. PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. All target lesions must have been assessed.
DLT was defined as any of the following drug-related adverse events (AEs) occurring during the first cycle (21 days for IV dosing, 28 days for SC dosing) in Part 1: Grade 5 AE; Grade 4 neutropenia lasting >5 days from initiation of granulocyte colony stimulating factor; Grade 4 thrombocytopenia with bleeding; Platelet transfusion requirement or a platelet count <10,000/uL; Grade 4 non-hematologic AE; Grade 3 AE lasting >7 days despite optimal supportive care; Grade 3 central nervous system AE regardless of duration; met criteria for drug induced liver injury. Severity of AEs were graded according to Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (CTCAE) v4.03. Grade 3 = severe AE. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE.
