An adverse event was considered as a treatment-emergent adverse event (TEAE) if the event started after the first dose of treatment regardless of whether a similar event of equal or greater severity existed in the baseline period. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. AEs are classified according to the severity in 3 categories a) mild - AEs does not interfere with participant's usual function b) moderate - AEs interferes to some extent with participant's usual function c) severe - AEs interferes significantly with participant's usual function.
This study is a phase 3, randomized, double blind and vehicle study to evaluate the efficacy and safety of Crisaborole ointment, 2% in Chinese and Japanese subjects with mild to moderate atopic dermatitis involving at least 5% treatable BSA. Eligible subjects will be randomized in a 2:1 ratio to one of 2 treatment groups (Crisaborole BID, Vehicle BID, respectively).
ISGA assessed the severity of atopic dermatitis (AD) on a 5-point scale ranged from 0 (clear) to 4 (maximum severe), where higher scores indicate higher degree of AD. Grades for classification of severity: 0= clear (minor residual discoloration, no erythema or induration or papulation, no oozing or crusting), 1= almost clear (trace faint pink erythema, with barely perceptible induration or papulation and no oozing or crusting), 2= mild (faint pink erythema with mild induration or papulation and no oozing or crusting), 3= moderate (pink-red erythema with moderate induration or papulation with or without oozing or crusting) and 4= severe (deep or bright red erythema with severe induration or papulation and with oozing or crusting). Improvement in ISGA is defined as ISGA score of 0 or 1.
Crisaborole for Chinese and Japanese Subjects (≥2 Years of Age) With Mild to Moderate Atopic Dermatitis
ISGA assessed the severity of AD on a 5-point scale ranged from 0 (clear) to 4 (maximum severe), where higher scores indicate higher degree of AD. Grades for classification of severity: 0= clear (minor residual discoloration, no erythema or induration or papulation, no oozing or crusting), 1= almost clear (trace faint pink erythema, with barely perceptible induration or papulation and no oozing or crusting), 2= mild (faint pink erythema with mild induration or papulation and no oozing or crusting), 3= moderate (pink-red erythema with moderate induration or papulation with or without oozing or crusting) and 4= severe (deep or bright red erythema with severe induration or papulation and with oozing or crusting). Success in ISGA is defined as an ISGA score of Clear (0) or Almost Clear (1) with at least a 2 grade improvement from Baseline.