Eligible patients will begin once-daily dosing with 20 mg Fx-1006A at home on Day 1 (i.e., first dose) and will return to the clinical unit for study visits every 6 months.
Treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. A treatment emergent AE was defined as an event that emerged during the treatment period that was absent before treatment, or worsened during the treatment period relative to the pretreatment state. AEs included both serious and all non-serious adverse events. Relatedness to study drug was assessed by the investigator as (Yes/No).
The physical examination (including weight and vital signs) and the relevant end of study clinical laboratory tests (alkaline phosphatase, alanine aminotransferase, aspartate aminotransferase, blood urea nitrogen, gamma glutamyl transferase, creatinine, total bilirubin, international normalized ratio, troponin I, troponin T, and amino-terminal B-type natriuretic peptide) from Protocol Fx1B-201 will be used for Protocol Fx1B-303. If more than 30 days has elapsed between the final study visit of Protocol Fx1B-201 and Day 0 of Protocol Fx1B-303, an abbreviated physical examination (including weight and vital signs) and clinical laboratory assessments must be performed on Day 0.
An end of study visit including all safety and efficacy assessments will occur upon patient completion of the study, premature withdrawal (for any reason), or in the event of program discontinuation by the Sponsor.
Safety And Efficacy Evaluation Of Fx-1006a In Patients With V122i Or Wild-Type Transthyretin (TTR) Amyloid Cardiomyopathy
Laboratory parameters included hematology and biochemistry: alkaline phosphatase (ALP), alanine aminotransferase (ALT), aspartate aminotransferase (AST), blood urea nitrogen, gamma glutamyl transferase (GGT), creatinine, total bilirubin, international normalized ratio (INR), troponin I, troponin T, prothrombin time, sodium, globulin potassium, chloride, bicarbonate, cholesterol, calcium, uric acid, inorganic phosphorous, thyroid-stimulating hormone, glucose, total thyroxine (T4), free T4, total proteins, prealbumin (transthyretin), albumin, hemoglobin, platelets, hematocrit, white blood cell count, red blood cell count, neutrophils, packed cell volume, lymphocytes, mean corpuscular volume, monocytes, mean corpuscular hemoglobin, eosinophils, mean corpuscular hemoglobin concentration, basophils, retinol-binding protein, Urinalysis: bilirubin, pH, blood (free Hb), protein, nitrite, glucose, urobilinogen, ketones, specific gravity.
