The EQ-5D is a validated, standardized, generic instrument that is the most widely used preference based health related quality of life questionnaire in cost effectiveness and health technologies assessment. The EQ-5D-Y is a version of the instrument specifically developed and validated for use by youths aged 12 through 17 years. Components assess level of current health for 5 domains: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, anxiety and depression. Score scale for each domain ranges from 1 (minimum) to 3 (maximum), with higher scores indicating worse health condition. In addition, respondents use a vertical, graduated Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) to rate their own health between 0 (the worst) and 100 (the best health state he/she can imagine).
SCORAD is a validated scoring index for AD,which combines extent (0-100),severity (0-18),and subjective symptoms (0-20) based on pruritus and sleep loss,each scored (0-10). Extent,denoted as A,is measured by BSA affected by AD as a percentage of the whole BSA.The score for each body region is added up to determine A (maximum of 100).Severity, denoted as B,consists of the severity of several signs.Each is assessed as none(0),mild(1),moderate(2) or severe(3).The severity scores are added together to give B (maximum of 18).Subjective symptoms,denoted as C,are each scored by the participant using a NRS where "0" is no itch (or no sleeplessness) and "10" is the worst imaginable itch (or sleeplessness).These scores are added to give 'C' (maximum of 20).SCORAD for an individual is calculated by the formula: A/5 + 7B/2 + C (can range from 0 to 103).Higher values of SCORAD represent worse outcome.
The PSAAD is a daily patient reported symptom diary presented as a 15 item questionnaire that includes 11 items developed to measure symptoms of AD, along with 4 additional items for exploratory and psychometric validation purposes (Sleep & Usual Activities Questions and Patient Global Impression of Severity & Patient Global Impression of Change Questions). Participants answer each question about skin condition based on a 24 hour recall. Each question was evaluated on a 11-point scale ranging from 0 to 10, where higher scores indicate more impact on skin condition.The PSAAD total score is calculated as the average of the responses to each of the 11 items and ranges from 0 (none) to 10 (extreme), where higher scores indicate worse severity of AD symptoms.
SCORAD is a validated scoring index for AD, which combines extent (A, 0-100), severity (B, 0-18), and subjective symptoms (C, 0-20) based on pruritus and sleep loss, each scored (0-10). The SCORAD for an individual is calculated by the formula: A/5 + 7B/2 + C (can range from 0 to 103). Subjective symptoms (ie, itch and sleep loss) are each scored by the participant using a VAS where "0" is no itch (or no sleep loss) and "10" is the worst imaginable itch (or sleep loss). The value for each should reflect the average on a 10 point scale for the last 3 days/nights. Changes from baseline in SCORAD subjective assessments of itch were not evaluated. Only changes from baseline in SCORAD subjective assessments of sleep loss are presented below.
The Functional Assessment of Chronic Illness Therapy Fatigue Scale (FACIT-F) is a 13-item questionnaire. Participants scored each item on a 5-point scale: 0 (none of the time) to 4 (all of the time). Larger the participant's response to the questions (with the exception of 2 negatively stated), greater was the participant's fatigue. For all questions, except for the 2 negatively stated ones, the code was reversed and a new score was calculated as (4 minus the participant's response). The sum of all responses resulted in the FACIT-F score for a total possible score of 0 (worse score) to 52 (better score), with higher scores representing better overall health status (less fatigue). Changes from baseline at Week 12 are presented below. Changes from baseline at other scheduled time points were not evaluated.
The immunogenicity analysis was to evaluate the effect of abrocitinib on immunogenicity to a tetanus, diphtheria and pertussis combination vaccine (Tdap) vaccine in adolescent participants 12 to <18 years of age with moderate to severe AD. Participants who completed 8 weeks of treatment with study intervention received Tdap at Week 8, and had blood samples collected for the evaluation of immunogenicity to the vaccine at Weeks 8 and 12. The fold increase was defined as the ratio (post-vaccination: pre-vaccination) of concentration values. The geometric mean fold rise (GMFR) is presented below, and was calculated by first arithmetically averaging the logarithmically transformed ratio (post-vaccination: pre-vaccination) values, and then back transformation. A 95% CI for GMFR was constructed by back transformation of the CI for the logarithmically transformed GMFRs computed using the Student's t distribution.
