Relapse was defined as any baseline Candida species isolated following eradication (documented or presumed); or culture data not available for a participant with a clinical response of failure after a previous response of success. Clinical response of failure was defined as no significant improvement in signs and symptoms, or death due to the Candida infection. Participants had received at least 3 doses of study medication to be classified as a failure. Clinical response of success was defined as resolution of sign and symptoms attributed to Candida infection occurred with no additional systemic or oral antifungal treatment required to complete the course of therapy. Eradication or presumed eradication: baseline pathogen not isolated from original site culture(s), or culture data are not available for a participant with successful clinical outcome. End of treatment visit defined as last day of study treatment (IV or oral).
Study To Assess Pharmacokinetics, Safety & Efficacy of Anidulafungin When Treating Children With Invasive Candidiasis
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 6 weeks after end of treatment (EOT) (up to 91 days) that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. AEs included both SAEs and non-SAEs. EOT visit defined as last day of study treatment (IV or oral).
Prospective, open label study to assess the pharmacokinetics, safety & efficacy of anidulafungin when used to treat children (aged 1 month - <18 years) with invasive candidiasis, including candidemia (ICC).
Participants received Anidulafungin loading dose of 3 milligrams per kg(mg/kg) intravenously(IV) on Day 1 and maintenance dose of 1.5mg/kg, every 24 hours for minimum 10 and maximum 35 days. After >=10 days treatment, participants with microbiologically confirmed invasive candidiasis/candidemia(ICC) and who fulfilled protocol specified criteria [1)afebrile for >=24 hours, 2)tolerate oral medication, 3)documentation of 2 blood cultures [24 hours apart] negative for Candida, 4)eradication/presumed eradication of Candida from other infection sites,identified at enrollment,5)specific Candida isolate susceptible/presumed susceptible to fluconazole, 6)switched to oral fluconazole if improvement in signs,symptoms of Candida infection] and after >=5 days treatment, participants without microbiologically confirmed ICC,could switch to oral fluconazole(6-12 mg/kg/day,maximum 800mg/day) upto 49 days. First 6 participants received second antifungal agent, if required at Investigator's discretion.
Participants received Anidulafungin loading dose of 3mg/kg, IV on Day 1 and maintenance dose of 1.5mg/kg, every 24 hours for minimum 10 and maximum 35 days. After >=10 days treatment, participants with microbiologically confirmed ICC and who fulfilled protocol specified criteria [1)afebrile for >=24 2hours, 2)tolerate oral medication, 3)documentation of 2 blood cultures [24 hours apart] negative for Candida, 4)eradication/presumed eradication of Candida from other infection sites,identified at enrollment,5)specific Candida isolate susceptible/presumed susceptible to fluconazole, 6)switched to oral fluconazole if improvement in signs,symptoms of Candida infection] and after >=5 days treatment, participants without microbiologically confirmed ICC, could switch to oral fluconazole (6-12 mg/kg/day, maximum 800mg/day) for upto 49 days.
