Serious infections were treated infections that required parenteral antimicrobial therapy or hospitalization for treatment or; met other criteria that required the infection to be classified as a serious adverse event (SAE). SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent were events between first dose of study drug and up to 81 months for Tofacitinib 5 mg BID group and up to 85 months for Tofacitinib 10 mg BID group that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state.
Remission in participants was defined as a total Mayo score of less than or equals to (<=) 2, with no individual sub score exceeding 1 point and a rectal bleeding sub score of 0. Mayo score was an instrument designed to measure disease activity of ulcerative colitis (UC). It consisted of 4 sub scores: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, findings of flexible sigmoidoscopy and physician global assessment (PGA), each sub score graded from 0 to 3 with higher scores indicated higher disease severity. These sub scores were summed up to give a total Mayo score range of 0 to 12, where higher score indicated more severe disease.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent were events between first dose of study drug and up to 81 months for Tofacitinib 5 mg BID group and up to 85 months for Tofacitinib 10 mg BID group that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. AEs included both serious and all non-serious AEs.
