Chemistry laboratory parameters: Blood urea nitrogen (BUN), Total protein, Chloride, Cancer antigen 19-9 (CA 19-9), Brain natriuretic peptide (BNP), Bicarbonate, Direct bilirubin, Carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA), Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH), Uric acid, Troponin I. Thyroid panel laboratory parameters: Thyroid-stimulating hormone (TSH), Free triiodothyronine (T3), Free thyroxine (T4). Laboratory values were as per laboratory normal ranges. Values above range were reported as high and values below range as low. Shift in chemistry and thyroid panel severity from baseline grade low, normal, high and missing to the post baseline grades as low, normal, high and missing are reported in this outcome measure. Categories with at least 1 non-zero data values are reported.
This is a multicenter, open-label, Phase 1B/2 study to evaluate the safety and assess the preliminary anti-tumor activity of binimetinib administered in combination with nivolumab or nivolumab + ipilimumab in adult patients with advanced metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) with microsatellite stable (MSS) disease and presence of a RAS mutation that have received at least one prior line of therapy and no more than 2 prior lines of therapy. The study contains a Phase 1b period to determine the maximum tolerated dose (MTD) and recommended Phase 2 dose (RP2D) and schedule of binimetinib followed by a randomized Phase 2 period to assess the efficacy of the combinations.
DOR was defined as the time between the date of the first documented confirmed response (PR or CR) and the date of the first documented progression or death due to any cause. As per RECIST v1.1: CR was defined as disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes short axis measures <10 mm. PR was defined as at least 30% decrease in sum of measures (tumor lesions- longest diameter and nodes- short axis) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. PD was defined as at least 20% increase in sum of diameters of measured lesions taking as references smallest sum of diameters recorded on study (including baseline) and an absolute increase of >=5 mm or appearance of at least 1 new lesion. Unequivocal progression of existing non-target lesions.
ORR was defined as the percentage of participants who achieved a best overall response (BOR) of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) as determined by investigator per RECIST v1.1. As per RECIST v1.1, CR was defined as disappearance of target and non-target lesions and normalization of tumor markers. Pathological lymph nodes must have short axis measures less than (<)10 millimeter (mm). PR was defined as at least a 30% decrease in the sum of measures (longest diameter for tumor lesions and short axis measure for nodes) of target lesions, taking as reference baseline sum of diameters. Non-target lesions must be non-progressive disease (PD). PD was defined as at least a 20% increase in sum of diameters of target lesions, taking as reference the smallest sum on study. In addition to relative increase of 20%, the sum must also demonstrate an absolute increase of at least 5 mm. The appearance of one or more new lesions was considered progression.
AE: any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE: AE resulting in any of following outcomes/deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial /prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. TEAEs: events between first dose of study drug and up to 30 days after last dose or before start of new anticancer therapy minus 1 day, whichever occurred first. TEAE graded by CTCAE grade 4.03: Grade 3: severe/medically significant but not immediately life-threatening, hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization indicated, disabling, limiting self-care activities of daily living (ADL); Grade 4: life-threatening consequence, urgent intervention indicated. In this outcome measure, number of participants with 'all grades' and 'Grade 3/4' were reported.
