OR was defined as a complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1 recorded from randomization until disease progression or death due to any cause. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. The PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No new lesions. In this outcome measure, OR was based on BICR.
DOR was defined as the time from the first documentation of objective tumor response (complete response [CR] or partial response [PR]) to the first documentation of objective tumor progression or to death due to any cause, whichever occurred first. DOR data was censored on the date of the last tumor assessment on study for participants who did not have objective tumor progression and who did not die due to any cause while on study. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. The PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No new lesions. In this outcome measure, DOR was based on investigator assessment.
DC/CBR was defined as CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) >=24 weeks according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) recorded in the time period between randomization and disease progression or death to any cause. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions except for nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. The PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No new lesions. SD was defined as not qualifying for CR, PR, PD. PD is defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed, with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm. In this outcome measure, DC/CBR was based on investigator assessment.
DC/CBR was defined as CR, PR, or stable disease (SD) >=24 weeks according to the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST v1.1) recorded in the time period between randomization and disease progression or death to any cause. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions except for nodal disease. All target nodes must decrease to normal size (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. The PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No new lesions. SD was defined as not qualifying for CR, PR, PD. PD is defined using RECIST v1.1 as a 20% increase in the sum of diameters of target measurable lesions above the smallest sum observed, with a minimum absolute increase of 5 mm. In this outcome measure, DC/CBR was based on investigator assessment.
The Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy (FACT) is a modular approach to assess participant health related quality of life using a "core" set of questions (FACT-G) as well as a cancer site specific module. The FACT-G was a 27-item compilation of general questions divided into 4 domains: Physical Well Being, Social/Family Well Being, Emotional Well Being, and Functional Well Being. The FACT-B consists of the FACT-G (27 items) and a breast specific module: a 10-item instrument designed to assess participant concerns relating to breast cancer. For all questions, participants were asked to respond to a 5-level scale ranging from 0=Not at all to 4=Very much. FACT-B total score = FACT-G + Breast Cancer Subscale. As each of the items ranges from 0-4, the range of possible scores is 0-148, with 0 being the worst possible score and 148 the best. A positive change of the total score indicated improvement from baseline and a negative change indicated deterioration.
A Study Of Palbociclib (PD-0332991) + Letrozole VS. Placebo+ Letrozole For 1st Line Treatment Of Asian Postmenopausal Women With ER+/HER2- Advanced Breast Cancer [PALOMA-4]
An adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A serious AE (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent are events between first dose of study drug and up to 28 days after last dose that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pretreatment state. Participants were counted only once per treatment in each row.
