GMCs of anti-pertussis components: anti pertussis (anti-PT) toxin, anti filamentous hemagglutinin (FHA) and anti- pertactin (PRN) was measured and reported in descriptive section. LLOQ values for each component was: Anti-PT=0.9 endotoxin units per milliliter (EU/mL), Anti-FHA=2.9 EU/mL, and Anti-PRN=3.0 EU/mL. Assay results below LLOQ were set to 0.5*LLOQ. Descriptive data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed only for combined population of participants reported under two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with Tdap and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide/Tdap) along with placebo/Tdap arm and not planned to be collected and analyzed for two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with placebo and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide with placebo), as pre-specified in protocol. GMRs were reported in statistical analysis section and calculated by dividing GMC of RSV vaccine with aluminum hydroxide with Tdap arm by GMC of placebo/Tdap arm.
This phase 2b study will evaluate safety, tolerability, and immunogenicity of an RSV vaccine when given together with Tdap in approximately 710 healthy nonpregnant women 18 through 49 years of age. This study will evaluate non-inferiority of RSV vaccine when given with Tdap and vice-versa.
Assay results below the LLOQ were set to 0.5*LLOQ. Titers were expressed in terms of 1/dilution. Descriptive data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed for combined population of participants reported under two RSV and Tdap vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with Tdap and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide/Tdap) and two RSV and placebo arm: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with placebo and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide with placebo) and not planned to be collected and analyzed for Placebo/Tdap arm, as pre-specified in protocol. GMRs were reported in statistical analysis section and calculated by dividing GMT of RSV vaccine with aluminum hydroxide with Tdap arm by GMT of RSV vaccine with aluminum hydroxide with placebo arm.
Percentage of participants achieving Anti-DTd antibody concentrations of >= 0.1 IU/mL at 1 month after vaccination were reported. The LLOQ values for Anti- DTd= 0.037 IU/mL. Assay results below the LLOQ were set to 0.5*LLOQ. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed only for combined population of participants reported under two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with Tdap and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide/Tdap) along with placebo/Tdap arm and not planned to be collected and analyzed for two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with placebo and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide with placebo), as pre-specified in protocol.
A STUDY OF A RSV VACCINE WHEN GIVEN TOGETHER WITH TDAP IN HEALTHY NONPREGNANT WOMEN AGED BETWEEN 18 TO 49 YEARS
Percentage of participants achieving Anti-TTd antibody concentrations of >= 0.1 IU/mL at 1 month after vaccination were reported. The lower limit of quantitation (LLOQ) values for Anti-TTd was 0.05 IU/mL. Assay results below the LLOQ were set to 0.5*LLOQ. Data for this outcome measure was planned to be collected and analyzed only for combined population of participants reported under two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with Tdap and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide/Tdap) along with placebo/Tdap arm and not planned to be collected and analyzed for two RSV vaccine arms: (RSV vaccine 120 mcg with placebo and RSV vaccine 240 mcg with aluminum hydroxide with placebo), as pre-specified in protocol.
Systemic reactions included fever, fatigue/tiredness, headache, nausea, muscle pain, joint pain, vomiting, diarrhea and any systemic event recorded by participants in an e-diary. Fever was categorized as: >=38.0 degrees (deg) Celsius (C), mild (>=38.0 to 38.4 deg C, >38.4 to 38.9 deg C), moderate (>38.9 to 40.0 deg C and >40.0 deg C), severe (>38.9 deg C to 40.0 deg C) and grade 4 (>40.0 deg C). Fatigue, headache, nausea, muscle pain and joint pain were graded as mild: did not interfere with activity, moderate: some interference with activity and severe: prevented daily routine activity. Vomiting was graded as mild: 1 to 2 times in 24 hours(h), moderate: >2 times in 24h and severe: requires intravenous hydration. Diarrhea was graded as mild: 2 to 3 loose stools in 24h, moderate: 4 to 5 loose stools in 24h and severe: 6 or more loose stools in 24h.