Study to Evaluate the Safety and Immunogenicity of a Multivalent Pneumococcal Vaccine Given With Prevnar 13 in Healthy Infants
Systemic events were recorded using an e-diary by participant's LAR and included fever, decreased appetite, drowsiness/increased sleep, and irritability. Fever was defined as rectal temperature of >=38.0 degree Celsius and categorized as >=38.0 to 38.4 degree Celsius,>38.4 to 38.9 degree Celsius, >38.9 to 40.0 degree Celsius and >40.0 degree Celsius. Decreased appetite was graded as mild (decreased interest in eating), moderate (decreased oral intake) and severe (refusal to feed). Drowsiness was graded as mild (increased or prolonged sleeping bouts), moderate (slightly subdued, interfered with daily activity) and severe (disabling, not interested in usual daily activity). Irritability: graded as mild (easily consolable), moderate (required increased attention) and severe (inconsolable, crying could not be comforted).
This is a Phase 2, randomized, active-controlled, open-label study with a 3-arm parallel design. Healthy 2-month old infants (42 to 98 days of age) with no history of pneumococcal vaccination will be randomized in a 1:1:1 ratio to receive a 4-dose series of: multivalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine coadministered with Prevnar 13 (Group 1); multivalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine given 1 month after Prevnar 13 (Group 2); or Prevnar 13 with a single dose of multivalent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (Group 3).
Systemic events were recorded using an e-diary by participant's LAR and included fever, decreased appetite, drowsiness/increased sleep, and irritability. Fever was defined as rectal temperature of greater than or equal to (>=) 38.0 degree Celsius and categorized as >=38.0 to 38.4 degree Celsius,>38.4 to 38.9 degree Celsius, >38.9 to 40.0 degree Celsius and >40.0 degree Celsius. Decreased appetite was graded as mild (decreased interest in eating), moderate (decreased oral intake) and severe (refusal to feed). Drowsiness was graded as mild (increased or prolonged sleeping bouts), moderate (slightly subdued, interfered with daily activity) and severe (disabling, not interested in usual daily activity). Irritability: graded as mild (easily consolable), moderate (required increased attention) and severe (inconsolable, crying could not be comforted).