The number of participants with a laboratory abnormality meeting specified criteria while on study treatment or during lag time are reported here. Baseline is defined as the last measurement prior to receiving study treatment. The list of urinalysis test parameters were as follows:pH, glucose (qual), protein (qual), blood (qual), ketones, nitrites, leukocyte esterase, microscopy, and spot urine albumin/creatinine ratio. The criteria of laboratory abnormality is defined as one of the following conditions was met: 1)associated with accompanying symptoms;2)Test result requires additional diagnostic testing or medical/surgical intervention;3)Test result leads to a change in study dosing (outside of any protocol specified dose adjustments) or discontinuation from the study, significant additional concomitant drug treatment, or other therapy;4)Test result is considered to be an AE by the investigator or sponsor.
The number of participants with a laboratory abnormality meeting the pre-specified criteria defined in the study protocol while on study treatment or during lag time are reported here. Baseline is defined as the last measurement prior to receiving study treatment. Laboratory data included hematology test, serum chemistry test, C-creative protein and viral surveillance. The criteria of laboratory abnormality is defined as one of the following conditions was met: 1)associated with accompanying symptoms;2)Test result requires additional diagnostic testing or medical/surgical intervention;3)Test result leads to a change in study dosing (outside of any protocol specified dose adjustments) or discontinuation from the study, significant additional concomitant drug treatment, or other therapy;4)Test result is considered to be an AE by the investigator or sponsor.
Study to Compare Oral PF-06651600, PF-06700841 and Placebo in Subjects With Moderate to Severe Ulcerative Colitis
For EQ-5D 3L, participant rated questionnaire to assess generic health status in two parts: single utility score and visual analog scale. For utility score, participants rated their current health state on 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain and discomfort, and anxiety and depression with each dimension having three levels of function: 1 indicates no problem; 2 indicates some problem; 3 indicates extreme problem. Scoring formula developed by EuroQol Group assigns a utility value for each domain in the profile. Score was transformed and results in a total score range of 0.05 to 1.00; higher scores indicating a better health state. The EQ-5D VAS records the respondent's self rated health on a scale from 0 (worst imaginable health state) to 100 (best imaginable health state).
