SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 75 response is a 75% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from initial 24-week treatment period placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 30 response is a 30% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) of Arms(PF-06651600 and PF-06700841) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 50 response is a 50% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) of Arms(PF-06651600 and PF-06700841) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 75 response is a 75% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) of Arms(PF-06651600 and PF-06700841) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100% with higher score indicates more severe disease. Baseline is defined as the last measurement prior to first dosing (Day 1). Percent change from baseline is defined as SALT baseline value minus SALT value at a specific visit divided by baseline and multiplying by 100. Positive change from baseline implies an improvement. Least Square Mean and 90% Confidence Interval of Arms (PF-06651600 and PF-06700841) are the Least Square Mean and 90% Confidence Interval for difference from placebo respectively.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 90 response is a 90% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) of Arms(PF-06651600 and PF-06700841) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
Study To Evaluate The Efficacy And Safety Profile Of PF-06651600 And PF-06700841 In Subjects With Alopecia Areata
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 50 response is a 50% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from initial 24-week treatment period placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 90 response is a 90% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from initial 24-week treatment period placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 100 response is a 100% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from initial 24-week treatment period placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
This is a Phase 2a, randomized, double blind, parallel group, multicenter study with an extension period. The study will have a maximum duration of approximately 113 weeks. This includes an up to 5 weeks Screening Period, a 24 week Treatment Period, a 4 week Drug Holiday (#1), an up to 12 month Single Blind (investigator open, sponsor open and subject blind) Extension Period, a 4 week drug holiday (#2), a 6 month Cross Over Open Label Extension Period and a 4 week Follow up Period.
Following laboratory parameters were assessed against pre-defined abnormality criteria: hematology(Hemoglobin, Hematocrit, RBC count, Reticulocyte count, Platelet count, WBC count with differential, Total neutrophils, Eosinophils, Monocytes, Basophils, Lymphocytes); serum chemistry (BUN and Creatinine, Cystatin C, Creatine Phosphokinase, Glucose , Na+, K+, Cl ,Ca++, Total CO2, AST, ALT, Total Indirect & Direct Bilirubin, Alkaline phosphatase, Uric acid, Albumin,Total protein, Fasting lipid Profile Panel; urinalysis(pH, Glucose, Protein, Nitrites, Leukocyte esterase, Microscopy culture);Other(HIV, HBsAg, HBcAb, HepB reflex (HbsAB), if applicable, HCVAb, Serum pregnancy test, Urine pregnancy test, FSH, QFT G or other IGRA, or PPD, EBV, CMV, HSV1, HSV2, VZV, Skin swab for herpetiform rash, Skin swab for potential drug related rash).Retest/discontinuation criteria are defined in Protocol Appendix 6.1 and 6.2 respectively.
SALT is a quantitative assessment of alopecia areata (AA) severity based on the scalp hair loss. A SALT 30 response is a 30% or greater reduction from baseline in SALT score. The SALT score can vary from 0 to 100%, with higher scores representing increasing severity of disease. The analysis was done using FAS (full analysis set) based on Non-responder imputation (ie. set missing values to be non-responsive) data. The percentage(Number) and 90% confidence interval (CI) in this outcome measurement is the percentage and 90% CI for difference from initial 24-week treatment period placebo. The 90% CI was calculated using Chan and Zhang method.
