This is an 8 week study to assess the efficacy and safety profile of PF-06651600 in seropositive subjects with rheumatoid arthritis with an inadequate response to methotrexate (up to approximately 50% of subjects may also have had an inadequate response to 1 anti-TNF biologic).
PAAP: Participants assessed the severity of their arthritis pain by using a 100 mm VAS ranging from 0 (no pain) to 100 (most severe pain), which corresponded to the magnitude of their pain, where higher scores indicated more pain. PGA: Participants were asked the following question, "Considering all the ways your arthritis affects you, how are you feeling today?" and their response was recorded on a 100 mm VAS ranging from 0 (very well) to 100 (very poor), where higher scores indicated worse health condition. PGAA: Participants were assessed how their overall arthritis appears at the time of the visit. The evaluation was based on the participant's disease signs, functional capacity and physical examination, and was independent of the PAAP and PGA assessments. The physician's response was recorded using a 100 mm VAS ranging from 0 (very well) to 100 (very poor), where higher scores indicated more disease activity.
Study To Assess The Efficacy And Safety Of Pf-06651600 In Subjects With Rheumatoid Arthritis With An Inadequate Response To Methotrexate
Remission rate was defined as the percentage of participants with disease remission. DAS28 is measure of disease activity in participants with rheumatoid arthritis. DAS28-4 (ESR) was calculated from the number of SJC and TJC using the 28 joints count, the ESR (mm/hour) and participant's global assessment (PGA) of disease activity (participant rated arthritis activity assessment with transformed scores ranging 0 to 10; higher scores indicated greater affectation due to disease activity). Total score range: 0-9.4, higher score=more disease activity. DAS28-4 (ESR) <= 3.2 implied low disease activity and >3.2 to 5.1 implied moderate to high disease activity, and DAS28-4 (ESR) <2.6 = remission.
The SDAI is the numerical sum of five outcome parameters: tender joint count (TJC) and swollen joint count (SJC) based on a 28-joint assessment, patient global assessment (PtGA) and physician global assessment (PGA) assessed on a visual analogue scale (VAS) scale ranging from 0 to 10 centimeter (cm), where higher scores=greater affection due to disease activity, and C-reactive protein (CRP) measured in terms of milligram per deciliter (mg/dL). SDAI total score= 0 to 86. SDAI greater than or equal to (<=) 3.3 indicates disease remission, greater than (>) 3.4 to 11 = low disease activity, >11 to 26 = moderate disease activity, and >26 = high disease activity.