Laboratory parameters included hematological and chemistry parameters. Chemistry parameters included alanine aminotransferase, albumin, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, bilirubin, calcium, creatine kinase, creatinine, glucose, magnesium, phosphate, potassium and sodium. Hematology parameters included haemoglobin, leukocytes, lymphocytes, neutrophils and platelet. Test abnormalities were graded by National Cancer Institute Common Terminology Criteria for Adverse Events (NCI CTCAE) version 4.03 as Grade 3= severe and Grade 4= life-threatening or disabling. Only categories with at least 1 participant with abnormality are reported in this outcome measure. Unscheduled visit was performed at any time during the study whenever necessary to assess for or follow-up on AEs, at the participant's request or if deemed necessary by the investigator.
The FACT-P was a 39-item participant questionnaire which assessed physical well-being (7 items), social/family well-being (7 items), emotional well-being (6 items), functional well-being (7 items), and additional prostate cancer specific concerns (12 items). All items were scored from 0 (not at all) to 4 (very much). The sum of scores on all 5 domains constitutes the global FACT-P. The global/total FACT-P score ranged from 0 (worst) to 156 (best), higher scores indicate better health status. Responders were those participants who had a 10-point improvement in their total FACT-P score, as compared with baseline, on two consecutive measurements obtained at least 3 weeks apart.
Safety and Efficacy Study of MDV3100 in Patients With Castration-Resistant Prostate Cancer Who Have Been Previously Treated With Docetaxel-based Chemotherapy
This is a phase 3 study to compare the clinical benefit of MDV3100 versus placebo in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer who have been previously treated with docetaxel-based chemotherapy.
Radiographic progression-free survival was defined as time from randomization to the earliest objective evidence of radiographic progression or death due to any cause. Participants were assessed for objective disease progression at regularly scheduled visits. The consensus guidelines of the Prostate Cancer Clinical Trials Working Group 2 were taken into consideration for the determination of disease progression. Radiographic disease progression was defined by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) 1.1 for soft tissue disease, or the appearance of two or more new bone lesions on bone scan. Progression at the first scheduled reassessment at Week 13 required a confirmatory scan 6 or more weeks later. Participants who did not reach the endpoint were right censored at their last assessment.
