Evaluation of Safety,Pharmacokinetics and Efficacy of CAZ-AVI With Metronidazole in Children Aged 3 Months to 18 Years Old With Complicated Intra-abdominal Infections (cIAIs).
This study will assess the safety , efficacy and pharmacokinetics of ceftazidime avibactam and metronidazole versus meropenem in paediatric population (from 3 months to less than 18 years of age )with complicated intra-abdominal infections (cIAIs)
Favorable microbiological response was achieved when all baseline pathogens were eradicated or presumed eradicated based on investigator's discretion. EOIV visit occurred within 24 hours after completion of last infusion of the study drug. EOT visit occurred within 48 hours after completion of last dose of oral switch therapy or at time of premature discontinuation/early withdrawal from study if on oral switch therapy (which occurred within the maximum study treatment duration of 15 days). EOIV visit occurred within 24 hours after completion of last infusion of the study drug. TOC visit occurred within 8 to 15 days after last dose of any study drug (IV or oral). LFU visit occurred within 20 to 35 days after last dose of study treatment (IV or oral).
Favorable microbiological response was achieved when all baseline pathogens were eradicated or presumed eradicated based on investigator's discretion. EOIV visit occurred within 24 hours after completion of last infusion of the study drug. EOT visit occurred within 48 hours after completion of last dose of oral switch therapy or at time of premature discontinuation/early withdrawal from study if on oral switch therapy (which occurred within the maximum study treatment duration of 15 days). TOC visit occurred within 8 to 15 days after last dose of any study drug (IV or oral). LFU visit occurred within 20 to 35 days after last dose of study treatment (IV or oral).
Participants with Creatinine clearance(CrCL) >=50 milliliter per minute (mL/min) received 10 milligram per kilogram (mg/kg) intravenous(IV) infusion of metronidazole over 20 to 30 minutes along with 2 hour IV infusion of CAZ/AVI in following manner: 1)Age 6 to less than(<)18 years: 2000 mg CAZ/500 mg AVI (body weight >=40 kg), 50 mg/kg CAZ/12.5 mg/kg AVI (body weight <40 kg), 2) Age 6 months to <6 years: 50 mg/kg CAZ/12.5 mg/kg AVI, 3)Age 3 months to <6 months: 40 mg/kg CAZ/10 mg/kg AVI. Both infusions were administered to participants every 8 hours for a minimum of 72 hours and up to a maximum duration of 15 days. Dose of CAZ-AVI was drops below to 50% if CrCl of participant drops below to 50mL/min, and participant was removed from study therapy, if CrCl decreased below 30mL/min. After having 72 hours of IV treatment, participants had option to switch to an oral therapy at investigator's discretion.
