WPAI: LBP is 6-question participant rated questionnaire that measures the effect of participant's chronic low back pain (CLBP) on general health and symptom severity on work productivity and regular activities. It yields 4 sub-scores: work time missed due to pain (absenteeism), impairment while working (presenteeism), overall work impairment (work productivity) and activity impairment (daily activity impairment). These sub-scores are expressed as an impairment percentage (range from 0 to 100), with higher numbers indicating greater impairment and less productivity. Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
EQ-5D-5L is a standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consists of two components: a health state profile and an optional visual analogue scale (VAS). EQ-5D health state profile is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Individual dimension scores ranged from 1.0 (least impairment of health state) to 5.0 (most impairment of health state). Each dimension has 5 levels: 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems, and 5=extreme problems. The health utility score for a participant with no problems in all 5 items is 1 for all countries (except for Zimbabwe where it is 0.9), and is reduced where a participant reports greater levels of problems across the five dimensions.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Average Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Worst Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain at its worst, during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.
