The PASI quantifies the severity of a participant's psoriasis based on both, "lesion severity" and the "percent of body surface area (BSA)" affected. PASI is a composite scoring by the investigator of degree of erythema, induration, and scaling (each scored separately) for each of 4 body regions (head and neck, upper limbs, trunk [including axillae and groin], and lower limbs [including buttocks]), with adjustment for the percent of BSA involved for each body region and for the proportion of the body region to the whole body. The PASI score can vary in increments of 0.1 and range from 0.0 to 72.0, with higher scores representing greater severity of psoriasis. PASI 75 response was defined as at least a 75 percent (%) reduction in PASI relative to Baseline. The statistical analysis was for the data at Week 16.
The PASI quantifies the severity of a participant's psoriasis based on both, "lesion severity" and the "percent of body surface area (BSA)" affected. PASI is a composite scoring by the investigator of degree of erythema, induration, and scaling (each scored separately) for each of 4 body regions (head and neck, upper limbs, trunk [including axillae and groin], and lower limbs [including buttocks]), with adjustment for the percent of BSA involved for each body region and for the proportion of the body region to the whole body. The PASI score can vary in increments of 0.1 and range from 0.0 to 72.0, with higher scores representing greater severity of psoriasis. PASI 100 response was defined as at least a 100 percent (%) reduction in PASI relative to Baseline.
The PASI quantifies the severity of a participant's psoriasis based on both lesion severity and the percentage of body surface area (BSA) affected. PASI is a composite scoring by the investigator of degree of erythema, induration, and scaling (each scored separately) for each of 4 body regions (head and neck, upper limbs, trunk [including axillae and groin], and lower limbs [including buttocks]), with adjustment for the percent of BSA involved for each body region and for the proportion of the body region to the whole body. The PASI score can vary in increments of 0.1 and range from 0.0 to 72.0, with higher scores representing greater severity of psoriasis. PASI 90 response was defined as at least a 90% reduction in PASI relative to baseline. The statistical analysis was for the data at Week 16.
Treatment-related adverse event (AE) was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. Serious AE (SAE) was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. In this outcome measure, an AE was considered treatment-emergent if the event started on or after the first dosing day and time/start time but before the last dose plus the lag time. Relatedness to investigational product (PF-06826647 or placebo) was assessed by the investigator (Yes/No). Participants with multiple occurrences of an AE within a category were counted once within the category.
This multicenter study is being conducted to provide additional PF-06826647 safety and tolerability data, and to further explore the clinical efficacy of PF-06826647 in the treatment of moderate to severe plaque psoriasis. Additionally, the study is intended to enable selection of oral dose and dosing regimen for the future clinical development of PF-06826647.
The Psoriasis Symptom Inventory (PSI) is a self administered 8-item questionnaire that measures the severity of psoriasis symptoms over the past 24 hours and the past 7 days. The measure includes concepts of itch, pain, burning, stinging, cracking, scaling, flaking, and redness. Participants were asked to respond to each item using a 5-point Likert response scale: 0: not all severe, 1: mild, 2: moderate, 3: severe and 4: very severe. The outcome of PSI is the sum of the scores for the 8 items. The total score range of PSI is 0-32. A negative change from baseline means a better outcome and the bigger score decrease means a better outcome. The statistical analysis was for the data at Week 16.
