The LVEF was the ratio of blood ejected during systole to blood in the ventricle at the end of diastole. LVEF was measured by cardiac magnetic resonance image (MRI) or echocardiogram. The same method of cardiac imaging was used consistently within a single participant. Cardiac MRIs were read by a central imaging vendor and echocardiograms were read locally at each site. The LVEF values measured by cardiac MRI and echocardiogram are combined in the following presentation. The analysis of covariance (ANCOVA) model was used to analyze the change from baseline for domagrozumab compared to placebo on LVEF. The baseline result, age, use of angiotensin receptor blocker (ARB)/beta blocker/angiotensin converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor and treatment were included as fixed effects in the model.
6MWD evaluated ambulation ability by measuring the distance walked in 6 minutes. MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline on 6MWD for the natural history control group compared to placebo group (Sequence 3). This MMRM was established to assess the appropriateness on using the natural history control group as a comparator. The natural history control group was established by filtering the CINRG natural history database. Participants who met the following requirements at baseline and had evaluable 6MWD data on Week 49 were included in this group: 1) age: 6 to <16 years; 2)treatment of glucocorticoid steroids >=6 months prior to baseline and continuous use until the latest visit week; 3) 4SC: 2-15.9 seconds; 4) participants who were ambulatory at baseline; 5) LVEF: >=55% or missing.
The NSAA is a 17-item test that measured gross motor function. Each individual item received a score of 0-unable to perform independently, 1-able to perform with assistance, or 2-able to perform without assistance. A total score was achieved by summing all the individual items. The total score could range from 0 to 34 (fully-independent function). MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline for domagrozumab compared to placebo. The stratification factor, baseline result, treatment, time and treatment by time interaction were included as fixed effects in the model. Participants were included as a random effect and the model was fit with an unstructured covariance for the repeated measures.
The PUL was used to assess motor performance of the upper limb. The PUL scale includes 22 items; an entry item defining the starting functional level, and 21 items subdivided into three levels: shoulder (4 items), middle (9 items) and distal (8 items). Scoring options per item may not be uniform and may vary from 0-1 and 0-6, according to the performance, with higher values corresponding to better performance. A total maximum score of 74 is achieved by adding the individual level scores. A subset analysis was performed by categorizing participants into 3 subsets according to the baseline 4SC time. MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline .The stratification factor, baseline result, treatment, time and treatment by time interaction were included as fixed effects in the model. Participants were included as a random effect and the model was fit with an unstructured covariance for the repeated measures.
The PUL was used to assess motor performance of the upper limb. The PUL scale includes 22 items; an entry item defining the starting functional level, and 21 items subdivided into three levels: shoulder (4 items), middle (9 items) and distal (8 items). Scoring options per item may not be uniform and may vary from 0-1 and 0-6, according to the performance, with higher values corresponding to better performance. A total maximum score of 74 is achieved by adding the individual level scores. MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline for domagrozumab compared to placebo. The stratification factor, baseline result, treatment, time and treatment by time interaction were included as fixed effects in the model. Participants were included as a random effect and the model was fit with an unstructured covariance for the repeated measures.
FVC was measured by spirometry to evaluate respiratory muscle function. MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline on FVC for domagrozumab compared to the natural history control group. The natural history control group was established by filtering the CINRG natural history database. Participants who met the following requirements at baseline and had evaluable FVC data on Week 97 were included in this group: 1) age: 6 to <16 years; 2) treatment of glucocorticoid steroids >=6 months prior to baseline and continuous use until the latest visit week; 3) 4SC: 2-15.9 seconds; 4 participants who were ambulatory at baseline; 5) LVEF: >=55% or missing.
The NSAA is a 17-item test that measured gross motor function. The total score could range from 0 to 34 (fully-independent function). MMRM was used to analyze the change from baseline on NSAA for domagrozumab compared to the natural history control group. The natural history control group was established by filtering the CINRG natural history database. Participants who met the following requirements at baseline and had evaluable NSAA data on Week 97 were included in this group: 1) age: 6 to <16 years; 2) treatment of glucocorticoid steroids >=6 months prior to baseline and continuous use until the latest visit week; 3) 4SC: 2-15.9 seconds; 4 participants who were ambulatory at baseline; 5) LVEF: >=55% or missing.
