Percentage of participants with objective response based on assessment of complete response (CR) or partial response (PR) according to Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) version 1.1. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. A treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in a participant who received study drug. Treatment-emergent AEs were those with initial onset or increasing in severity after the first dose of study medication. All AEs were graded by the investigator according to the NCI CTCAE version 4.03. Grade 1 AEs are mild AEs; Grade 2 AEs are moderate AEs; Grade 3 AEs are severe AEs, Grade 4 AEs are life-threatening consequences and Grade 5 AEs are deaths related to AEs. Each AE was counted once for the participant in the most severe severity.
The disease control rate (DCR) was defined as the percentage of participants with a confirmed CR, PR or SD according to the appropriate analysis set. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions and non-target disease, with the exception of nodal disease. All nodes, both target and non-target, must decrease to normal (short axis <10 mm). No new lesions. PR was defined as >=30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target lesions. The short axis was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. No unequivocal progression of non-target disease. No new lesions. SD was defined as neither sufficient shrinkage to qualify for PR nor sufficient increase to qualify for PD, taking as reference the smallest sum diameters while on study.
