Following parameters were analyzed for laboratory examination: hematology (anemia, hemoglobin increased, lymphocyte count decreased, lymphocyte count increased, neutrophil count decreased, platelet count decreased, white blood cell decreased); chemistries (increase of alanine aminotransferase, alkaline phosphatase, aspartate aminotransferase, blood bilirubin, CPK, creatinine, gamma-glutamyl transferase [GGT], lipase, and serum amylase); urinalysis (proteinuria); coagulation (activated partial thromboplastin time prolonged, international normalized ratio [INR] increased). Grades of severity were defined by CTCAE v4.03. Grade 0 = No Change from normal or reference range (this grade is not included in the CTCAE v4.03 document but may used in certain circumstances). Grade 1 = mild adverse event (AE). Grade 2 = moderate AE; Grade 3 = severe AE. Grade 4 = life-threatening consequences; urgent intervention indicated. Grade 5 = death related to AE.
A Dose Escalation Study Of PF-06801591 In Melanoma, Head And Neck Cancer (SCCHN), Ovarian, Sarcoma, Non-Small Cell Lung Cancer, Urothelial Carcinoma or Other Solid Tumors
DOSD was analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier approach for each tumor type. Stable disease (SD) was defined as not qualifying for complete response (CR), partial response (PR), or progression. All target lesions must have been assessed. Stable could follow PR only in the rare case that the sum increased by less than 20% from the nadir, but enough that a previously documented 30% decrease no longer held. CR was defined as complete disappearance of all target lesions with the exception of nodal disease. All target nodes must have decreased to normal size (short axis < 10 mm). All target lesions must have been assessed. PR was defined as greater than or equal to 30% decrease under baseline of the sum of diameters of all target measurable lesions. The short diameter was used in the sum for target nodes, while the longest diameter was used in the sum for all other target lesions. All target lesions must have been assessed.
