An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received investigational product without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly; medically important events. A treatment emergent AE was defined as an event that emerged during the treatment period that was absent before treatment or worsened during the treatment period relative to the pretreatment state. AEs included both serious and all non-serious adverse events (irrespective of frequency threshold used to report other AEs in safety section).
A Study of Tofacitinib in Patients With Ulcerative Colitis in Stable Remission
Remission as per total mayo score was defined by a total mayo score of 2 points or lower, with no individual subscore exceeding 1 point and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Mayo score is an instrument designed to measure disease activity of UC. It consisted of 4 subscores: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, findings of flexible sigmoidoscopy and physician global assessment (PGA), each subscore graded from 0 to 3 with higher scores indicating more severe disease. PGA included 3 criteria: participant's recollection of abdominal discomfort, general sense of wellbeing and other observations such as physical findings and performance status. Individual subscores were summed up to give a total mayo score range of 0 to 12, where higher scores indicating more severe disease.
This study is a follow up study for subjects with Ulcerative Colitis (UC) in stable remission designed to evaluate flexible dosing of CP-690,550.
Laboratory abnormalities leading to study treatment discontinuation: 2 sequential neutrophil counts <750 neutrophils per cubic millimeter (mm^3); 2 sequential lymphocyte counts <500 lymphocytes/mm^3; 2 sequential hemoglobin <8.0 grams per deciliter; 2 sequential platelet counts <75000 platelets/mm^3; 2 sequential AST or ALT elevations >=3*ULN with at least one total bilirubin value >=2*ULN; 2 sequential AST or ALT elevations >=3*ULN accompanied by signs or symptoms consistent with hepatic injury; 2 sequential AST or ALT elevations >=5*ULN; 2 sequential increases in creatinine >50% and >0.5 milligrams per deciliter over A3921139 baseline; 2 sequential CK elevations >10*ULN unless the causality is known not to be medically serious (eg, exercise induced).
Remission as per partial mayo score was defined as partial mayo score of 2 points or lower, with no individual subscore exceeding 1 point and a rectal bleeding subscore of 0. Partial mayo score was an instrument designed to measure disease activity of UC without endoscopy. It consisted of 3 subscores: stool frequency, rectal bleeding and PGA with each subscore graded from 0 to 3 with higher scores indicating more severe disease. PGA included 3 criteria: participant's recollection of abdominal discomfort, general sense of wellbeing and other observations such as physical findings and performance status. Individual subscores were summed up to give a total partial mayo score range from 0 (normal or inactive disease) to 9 (severe disease) with higher scores indicating more severe disease.
Time to loss of remission(flare): time from first drug administration until time of meeting loss of remission criteria based on modified mayo score. Loss of remission: meeting at least (>=)1 criteria: increase from Baseline in rectal bleeding subscore by >=1 point and increase in endoscopic subscore by >=1 point; increase from Baseline in rectal bleeding subscore by >=2 points and endoscopic subscore >0; increase in stool frequency subscore by >=2 points and increase in endoscopic subscore by >=1 point; increase in endoscopic subscore by >=2 points. Modified mayo score included 3 components: stool frequency, rectal bleeding and endoscopic subscores: Modified mayo score included 3 components: stool frequency, rectal bleeding and endoscopic subscores, each subscore graded from 0 to 3 with higher scores for each score=more severe disease. All scores summed up to give total modified mayo score range from 0 to 9; higher scores=more severe disease.
Clinical response was defined as a decrease from baseline in mayo score of at least 3 points and at least 30 percent, with an accompanying decrease in the rectal bleeding subscore of at least 1 point or an absolute rectal bleeding subscore of 0 or 1. Mayo score is an instrument designed to measure disease activity of UC. It consisted of 4 subscores: stool frequency, rectal bleeding, findings of flexible sigmoidoscopy and PGA, each sub score graded from 0 to 3 with higher scores indicating more severe disease. PGA included 3 criteria: participant's recollection of abdominal discomfort, general sense of wellbeing and other observations such as physical findings and performance status. Individual subscores were summed up to give a mayo score range of 0 to 12, where higher scores indicating more severe disease.