The exposure response of Ritlecitinib (PF-06651600) on the regrowth of scalp hair was characterized using a Bayesian three-parameter hyperbolic Emax model for the SALT score <=20 at Week 24 with an additional term for effect of loading dose. In Emax exposure-response model the response function was the log odds of the percentage of participants with response based on SALT <=20 at Week 24, which was fit on the logistic scale and then back-transformed to percentage. The effect of loading dose is included as fixed factor in the model. The variable that represents loading dose has values of 1 for groups 200/50 mg once daily and 200/30 mg once daily and of 0 for the remaining groups. SALT is a quantitative assessment of AA severity based on the scalp hair loss. The SALT score can vary from 0 (normal) to 100 (severe), with higher scores representing increased severity of disease.
HADS is a validated 14-item PRO measure used to assess states of anxiety and depression over the past week. Items were rated on a 4-point severity scale. The HADS produces 2 scales, one for anxiety (HADS-A) and one for depression (HADS-D), differentiating the two states with established normal score cut-offs. The instrument have been validated for use by adolescents aged 12 and older. Each subscale comprised of 7 items and the participant responds as to how each item applies to him/her over the past week prior to baseline visit, on 4-point response scale. Separate scores were calculated for anxiety and depression with score ranges from 0 (no presence of anxiety or depression) to 3 (severe feeling of anxiety or depression). Total score range was from 0 to 21 for depression subscale; higher score indicating greater severity of depression symptoms.
PF-06651600 for the Treatment of Alopecia Areata
AAPPO scale is 11-item self-administered questionnaire that measured hair loss, emotional symptoms, and activity limitations over past week. Items 1-4 assessed current hair loss, eyebrow loss, eyelash loss and body hair loss and were analyzed separately on scale of 0-4, with 0 ='no hair loss' and 4='complete hair loss'. Items 5-8 assessed emotional symptoms. Response choices on these items were scored from 0 ='never' to 4='always'. Items 9-11 assessed activity limitations. Response choices on these items were scored from 0='not at all' to 4='completely'. Change from baseline in AAPPO emotional symptoms sub score were calculated as mean of items 5-8 and ranged from 0(never) to 4(always), where higher scores indicated more emotional symptoms. Change from baseline in AAPPO activity limitations sub score was calculated as mean of items 9-11 and ranged from 0(not at all) to 4(completely), where higher scores indicated more activity limitations. Baseline was defined as pre-dose on Day 1.
HADS is a validated 14-item PRO measure used to assess states of anxiety and depression over the past week. Items were rated on a 4-point severity scale. The HADS produces 2 scales, one for anxiety (HADS-A) and one for depression (HADS-D), differentiating the two states with established normal score cut-offs. The instrument have been validated for use by adolescents aged 12 and older. Each subscale comprised of 7 items and the participant responds as to how each item applies to him/her over the past week prior to baseline visit, on 4-point response scale. Separate scores were calculated for anxiety and depression with score ranges from 0 (no presence of anxiety or depression) to 3 (severe feeling of anxiety or depression). Total score range was from 0 to 21 for depression subscale; higher score indicating greater severity of depression symptoms. Baseline was defined as pre-dose on Day 1.
HADS is a validated 14-item PRO measure used to assessed states of anxiety and depression over the past week. Items were rated on a 4-point severity scale. The HADS produces 2 scales, one for anxiety (HADS-A) and one for depression (HADS-D), differentiating the two states with established normal score cut-offs. The instrument have been validated for use by adolescents aged 12 and older. Each subscale comprised of 7 items and the participant responds as to how each item applies to him/her over the past week prior to baseline visit, on 4-point response scale. Separate scores were calculated for anxiety and depression with score ranges from 0 (no presence of anxiety or depression) to 3 (severe feeling of anxiety or depression). Total score range was from 0 to 21 for anxiety subscale; higher score indicating greater severity of anxiety symptoms.
The exposure response of Ritlecitinib (PF-06651600) on the regrowth of scalp hair was characterized using a Bayesian three-parameter hyperbolic Emax model for the SALT score <=10 at Week 24 with an additional term for effect of loading dose. In Emax exposure-response model the response function was the log odds of the percentage of participants with response based on SALT <=10 at Week 24, which was fit on the logistic scale and then back-transformed to percentage. The effect of loading dose is included as fixed factor in the model. The variable that represents loading dose has values of 1 for groups 200/50 mg once daily and 200/30 mg once daily and of 0 for the remaining groups. SALT is a quantitative assessment of AA severity based on the scalp hair loss. The SALT score can vary from 0 (normal) to 100 (severe), with higher scores representing increased severity of disease.
This is a global Phase 2b/3 study to evaluate the safety and effectiveness of an investigational study drug (called PF-06651600) in adults and adolescents (12 years and older) who have 50% or greater scalp hair loss. The study is placebo-controlled, meaning that some patients entering the study will not receive active study drug but will receive tablets with no active ingredients (a placebo). This is a dose-ranging study, investigating 5 different dosing regimens. It will be double-blinded, meaning that the sponsor, the study doctors, the staff, and the patients will not know whether a patient is on active study drug (or the dose) or placebo.
HADS is a validated 14-item PRO measure used to assess states of anxiety and depression over the past week. Items were rated on a 4-point severity scale. The HADS produces 2 scales, one for anxiety (HADS-A) and one for depression (HADS-D), differentiating the two states with established normal score cut-offs. The instrument have been validated for use by adolescents aged 12 and older. Each subscale comprised of 7 items and the participant responds as to how each item applies to him/her over the past week prior to baseline visit, on 4-point response scale. Separate scores were calculated for anxiety and depression with score ranges from 0 (no presence of anxiety or depression) to 3 (severe feeling of anxiety or depression). Total score range was from 0 to 21 for anxiety subscale; higher score indicating greater severity of anxiety symptoms. Baseline was defined as pre-dose on Day 1.