Participants were assessed for their treatment experience using DCOA 1 questionnaire completed by participants (8-17 years old). Participants were asked 4 questions from Section I of the IPAQ PRO tool related to participant's injection signs and symptoms and used a 11-point scale: 0=no pain to 10=worst possible pain; 0=no stinging to 10=worst possible stinging; 0=no bruising to 10=worst possible bruising; and 0=no bleeding to 10=worst possible bleeding, respectively. The total score was sum of all questions; scores were transformed from raw scores and converted to a 0 to 100 scale; a lower score for injection signs and symptoms meant a better outcome.
An AE was any untoward medical occurrence in a participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. SAE was any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that: resulted in death, was life threatening (immediate risk of death), required inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization, resulted in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions), resulted in congenital anomaly/birth defect. Treatment-emergent AEs (TEAEs) were defined as events that occurred between first dose of study drug up to 35 days after last dose of study drug. Related TEAEs were those AEs who had relation to the study treatment and was judged by investigator.
Participants were assessed for their treatment burden using DCOA 1 questionnaire completed by participant/caregiver dyads. The participant life interference questionnaire component of the DCOA 1 had 7 questions (life interference [5 questions]: a measure of life interference [daily activities/social activities/leisure/night away from home/travel]; life interference-changes to life routine [1 question]: a measure of how often changes are made to life routine; and life interference-bother of growth hormone [GH] injections [1 question]: a measure of how often the growth hormone injections cause bother) and all questions used a 5-point scale: 1= never, 2= rarely, 3= sometimes, 4= often, 5= always. The overall life interference total score was sum of all 7 questions, scores were transformed from raw scores and converted to a 0 to 100 scale; a lower score meant less life interference (better outcome).
Caregivers of participants were asked a question "Which injection schedule interfered less?" from Section II of the IPAQ PRO tool related to caregiver life interference and were assessed for 5 activities: daily activities (Activity 1), social activities (Activity 2), recreation/leisure activities (Activity 3), spending night away from home (Activity 4) and travel (Activity 5). Preference was expressed by choosing from any 1 option for each activity from: 1) weekly injection schedule interfered less (Somatrogon); 2) daily injection schedule interfered less (Genotropin); 3) no difference. The caregivers responded for the participants, and in actual they respond to the number of participants only but per caregiver responses.
Patient Perception of Treatment Burden in Weekly Versus Daily Growth Hormone Injections in Children With GHD
This is an open label randomized 24 week crossover trial assessing the treatment burden of a weekly growth hormone injection regimen (somatrogon) compared to a daily growth hormone injection regimen (Genotropin). Approximately 90 children with growth hormone deficiency who have been stable on treatment with daily Genotropin will be enrolled.