Geboes index is a structured six-grade classification system ordered as follows: 0, structural changes (sub-grade: 0-0.3); 1, chronic inflammatory infiltrate (sub-grade: 1-1.3); 2, lamina propria neutrophils and eosinophils (sub-grade: 2A-2B.3); 3, neutrophils in epithelium (sub-grade: 3-3.3); 4, crypt destruction (sub-grade: 4-4.3); and 5, erosion and ulceration (sub-grade: 5-5.4). The final index ranges from 0 to 5.4, with low score associated with no inflammation or less inflammation and high score associated with severe inflammation or ulceration. Geboes index remission was defined as Geboes index < 3 and Grade 3 < 3.1 at week 12. Participants with missing values were handled by observed case approach (the missing data were used as is). The percentage of participants achieving Geboes index remission was calculated based on the number of participants with observed data.
The Mayo score consists of 4 subscores (Endoscopic, stool frequency, rectal bleeding and Physician's global assessment [PGA]), each graded 0 to 3 with the higher score indicating more severe disease activity. Modified clinical remission is defined as a modified total Mayo Score (total Mayo score excluding the PGA subscore) <=2, no individual subscore >1, traditional endoscopic subscore <=1 (where mild friability was scored as of 1; moderate or severe friability was scored as 2) and rectal bleeding subscore=0. Participants with missing values were handled by treatment failure approach (participants who had missing value for any reasons were considered as treatment failures).
Treatment-emergent AEs are those with initial onset or that worsen in severity after the first dose of the study medication. All AEs in the table below were treatment-emergent AEs. An serious adverse event (SAE) is any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that: results in death; is life threatening (immediate risk of death); requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); results in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or that is considered to be an important medical event that may jeopardize the participant or may require intervention to prevent one of the other AE outcomes. Severe AEs were defined as AEs that interfered significantly with participant's usual function. Both SAEs and severe AEs were according to the investigator's assessment.
Placebo for PF-06687234 was administered as subcutaneous injection on Day 1, Week 1 (Day 8), Week 2 (Day 15), Week 3 (Day 22), Week 4 (Day 29), Week 5 (Day 36), Week 6 (Day 43), Week 7 (Day 50), Week 8 (Day 57), Week 9 (Day 64), Week 10 (Day 71) and Week 11 (Day 78) for a total 12 doses. Remicade or protocol specified infliximab biosimilar was administered as an IV infusion on Day 1, Week 8 and Week 16 for a total of 3 doses for participants on infliximab every 8 weeks, and Day 1, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18 for participants on infliximab every 6 weeks.
The purpose of this study is to determine if PF-06687234 is effective and safe as add-on therapy to infliximab in subjects with active ulcerative colitis who are not in remission.
The Mayo score is determined by the summation of 4 subscores (Endoscopic, stool frequency, rectal bleeding and Physician's global assessment [PGA]), each graded 0 (normal) to 3 (worst). Derived partial mayo score is defined as total Mayo score excluding the endoscopic subscore (stool frequency, rectal bleeding and PGA only), ranging from 0 (normal) to 9 (the most severe). The percentages of participants with change from baseline in derived partial Mayo score of <=2 with no individual subscore >1 at Weeks 2, 4, 8 and 12 were calculated for this endpoint. Participants with missing values were handled by observed case approach (the missing data were used as is). Generalized Linear Mixed Model (GLMM) was used with fixed effects of treatment, visit and treatment by visit interaction.
Treatment-emergent AEs are those with initial onset or that worsen in severity after the first dose of the study medication. All AEs in the table below were treatment-emergent AEs. An SAE is any untoward medical occurrence at any dose that: results in death; is life threatening (immediate risk of death); requires inpatient hospitalization or prolongation of existing hospitalization; results in persistent or significant disability/incapacity (substantial disruption of the ability to conduct normal life functions); results in congenital anomaly/birth defect; or that is considered to be an important medical event that may jeopardize the participant or may require intervention to prevent one of the other AE outcomes. Severe AEs were defined as AEs that interfered significantly with participant's usual function. Both SAEs and severe AEs were according to the investigator's assessment. Treatment-related AEs were also determined by the investigator.
The Mayo score consists of 4 subscores (Endoscopic, stool frequency, rectal bleeding and Physician's global assessment [PGA]), each graded 0 to 3 with the higher score indicating more severe disease activity. Modified clinical remission is defined as a modified total Mayo Score (total Mayo score excluding the PGA subscore) with endoscopic subscore = 0 or 1 (where any friability was scored as a mayo endoscopic subscore of 2), stool frequency subscore = 0 or 1, and rectal bleeding subscore = 0. Participants with missing values were handled by treatment failure approach (participants who had missing value for any reasons were considered as treatment failures).
PF-06687234 was administered as a 20 mg subcutaneous injection on Day 1, Week 1 (Day 8), Week 2 (Day 15), Week 3 (Day 22), Week 4 (Day 29), Week 5 (Day 36), Week 6 (Day 43), Week 7 (Day 50), Week 8 (Day 57), Week 9 (Day 64), Week 10 (Day 71) and Week 11 (Day 78) for a total 12 doses. Remicade or protocol specified infliximab biosimilar was administered as an IV infusion on Day 1, Week 8 and Week 16 for a total of 3 doses for participants on infliximab every 8 weeks, and Day 1, Week 6, Week 12 and Week 18 for participants on infliximab every 6 weeks.
