A Safety and Efficacy Study of Oral MDV3100 in Chemotherapy-Naive Patients With Progressive Metastatic Prostate Cancer
The purpose of this study is to determine the benefit of enzalutamide versus placebo as assessed by overall survival and progression-free survival in patients with progressive metastatic prostate cancer who have failed androgen deprivation therapy but not yet received chemotherapy.
Time to PSA progression was defined as the time from randomization to date of first confirmed observation of PSA progression for each patient. For patients with PSA declines at week 13, the PSA progression date was defined as the date that a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 ng/mL above the nadir was documented, and confirmed 3 or more weeks later. For patients with no PSA decline at week 13, the PSA progression date was defined as the date that a ≥ 25% increase and an absolute increase of ≥ 2 ng/mL above baseline was documented, and confirmed 3 or more weeks later. For patients who did not have confirmed PSA progression at the time of the analysis data cutoff, time to PSA progression was censored at the date of the last PSA assessment showing no evidence of confirmed PSA progression or the analysis data cutoff date, whichever was first. Time to PSA progression for patients with no postbaseline assessments was censored on the date of randomization.
An AE is any untoward medical occurrence in participant who received study drug without regard to possibility of causal relationship. As per NCI CTCAE, Grade 3 events =medically significant but not immediately life-threatening, unacceptable or intolerable events, significantly interrupting usual daily activity, require systemic drug therapy/other treatment, Grade 4 events =participant to be in imminent danger of death. Grade 5 events =death. A treatment-emergent AE (TEAE) was defined as an AE that occurred from the date and time of the first dose of study drug up to a maximum duration of 6.5 years. Number of participants with AEs of any of the Grade 3 or above (Grade 4, 5) were reported.
Radiographic progression-free survival was defined as the time from randomization to the first objective evidence of radiographic disease progression assessed by independent central radiology review or death due to any cause within 168 days after treatment discontinuation, whichever was first. Radiographic disease progression was evaluated by CT scan or MRI and radionuclide bone scans at regularly scheduled visits. Radiographic disease progression in bone required a confirmatory scan. Radiographic disease progression in soft tissue did not require a confirmatory scan for purposes of analysis. Radiographic disease progression was evaluated by independent central radiology review using RECIST 1.1 for soft tissue disease and PCWG2 guidelines for bone disease. Patients who did not reach the endpoint were censored at their last assessment.
