WPAI: LBP is 6-question participant rated questionnaire that measures the effect of participant's chronic low back pain (CLBP) on general health and symptom severity on work productivity and regular activities. It yields 4 sub-scores: work time missed due to pain (absenteeism), impairment while working (presenteeism), overall work impairment (work productivity) and activity impairment (daily activity impairment). These sub-scores are expressed as an impairment percentage (range from 0 to 100), with higher numbers indicating greater impairment and less productivity. Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
EQ-5D-5L is a standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score. EQ-5D-5L consists of two components: a health state profile and an optional visual analogue scale (VAS). EQ-5D health state profile is comprised of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression. Individual dimension scores ranged from 1.0 (least impairment of health state) to 5.0 (most impairment of health state). Each dimension has 5 levels: 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems, and 5=extreme problems. The health utility score for a participant with no problems in all 5 items is 1 for all countries (except for Zimbabwe where it is 0.9), and is reduced where a participant reports greater levels of problems across the five dimensions.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Average Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Worst Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain at its worst, during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.
Orthostatic hypotension was defined as postural change (supine to standing) that met the following criteria: For systolic BP <=150 mmHg (mean supine): Reduction in systolic BP>=20 mmHg or reduction in diastolic BP>=10 mmHg at the 1 and/or 3 minute standing BP measurements. For systolic BP >150 mmHg (mean supine): Reduction in systolic BP>=30 mmHg or reduction in diastolic BP>=15 mmHg at the 1 and/or 3 minute standing BP measurements. If the 1 minute or 3 minute standing BP in a sequence met the orthostatic hypotension criteria, then that sequence was considered positive. If 2 of 2 or 2 of 3 sequences were positive, then orthostatic hypotension was considered confirmed. Pre-specified intent of study for safety summaries until W80 was to summarize data by 4 arms. Data not collected after W16 in placebo arm for this OM, as those who met criteria to continue, switched to active treatment with tanezumab after W16.
TSQM v.II: self-administered 11-item validated scale that quantified participant's level of satisfaction with study medication (7 questions scored on 7-point Likert scale [1= extremely dissatisfied, 2=very dissatisfied, 3=dissatisfied, 4=somewhat satisfied, 5=satisfied, 6=very satisfied, 7=extremely satisfied]), effectiveness and side effects/tolerability (3 questions scored on 5 point Likert scale [1= extremely dissatisfied, 2=very dissatisfied, 3=somewhat dissatisfied, 4=slightly dissatisfied, 5=not at all dissatisfied], 1 question on 2 point scale [0 =No, 1=Yes]). 11 questions of TSQM were used to calculate 4 endpoints of effectiveness, side effects, convenience and global satisfaction, each scored on a 0-100 scale with 100=best level of satisfaction. Pre-specified intent of study was to compare tanezumab Vs placebo for data up to & including W16 & comparisons of tanezumab Vs tramadol for data up to & including W56.
Treatment-related AE was any untoward medical occurrence attributed to study drug in participant who received study drug. SAE was an AE resulting in any of the following outcomes or deemed significant for any other reason: death; initial or prolonged inpatient hospitalization; life-threatening experience (immediate risk of dying); persistent or significant disability/incapacity; congenital anomaly. Treatment-emergent were events between first dose of study drug and up to W56 that were absent before treatment or that worsened relative to pre-treatment state. Relatedness to study drug was assessed by the investigator. Pre-specified intent of study for summaries for the entire treatment period (up to week 56), data was summarized by 3 arms.
The RMDQ is a self-administered, widely used health status measure index of how well participants with LBP are able to function with regard to daily activities. It measures pain and function, using 24 items describing limitations to everyday life that can be caused by LBP. The total score of the RMDQ is the total number of items checked ranging from 0 (no disability) to 24 (maximum disability), where higher scores indicated greater disability. Percentage of participants with cumulative reduction (as percent) (>0 %; >= 10 %, 20 %, 30 %, 40 %, 50 %, 60 %, 70 %, 80 %, 90% and =100 %) in RMDQ from Baseline to weeks 16, 24 and 56 were reported, participants (%) are reported more than once in categories specified.Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
EQ-5D-5L: standardized participant completed questionnaire that measures health-related quality of life and translates that score into an index value or utility score.EQ-5D-5L consists of 2 components: a health state profile and an optional VAS.EQ-5D health state profile comprises of 5 dimensions: mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort and anxiety/depression.Individual dimension scores ranged from 1.0(least impairment of health state) to 5.0(most impairment of health state). Each dimension has 5 levels: 1=no problems, 2=slight problems, 3=moderate problems, 4=severe problems, and 5=extreme problems.Responses from five domains were used to calculate a single utility index (Overall health utility score) where values are less than equal to (<=) 1.Overall health utility score for a participant with no problems in all 5 items is 1 for all countries (except for Zimbabwe where it is 0.9), and reduced where participant reports greater levels of problems across five dimensions.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Average Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
This study will investigate the efficacy and safety of tanezumab 5 mg and 10 mg administered by subcutaneous injection seven times at 8 week intervals (56 weeks). The primary objective of this study is to evaluate the effectiveness of tanezumab 10 mg and 5 mg compared to placebo for the treatment of chronic low back pain. Secondary objectives are to evaluate the long-term safety and effectiveness of tanezumab 10 mg and 5 mg compared to placebo for the treatment of chronic low back pain. In addition, the study will evaluate the effectiveness and long term safety profile of tanezumab treatment for chronic low back pain compared to tramadol Prolonged Release (PR), a medication commonly utilized for the treatment of chronic low back pain.
PGA of LBP was assessed by asking a question to participants: "Considering all the ways your low back pain affects you, how are you doing today?" Participants responded on a 5 point Likert scale ranging from 1-5, using IRT, where 1=very good (asymptomatic and no limitation of normal activities); 2=good (mild symptoms and no limitation of normal activities); 3=fair (moderate symptoms and limitation of some normal activities); 4=poor (severe symptoms and inability to carry out most normal activities); and 5=very poor (very severe symptoms which are intolerable and inability to carry out all normal activities). Higher scores indicated worsening of condition. Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
Average LBP was assessed on an 11-point NRS captured through an IRT. The LBPI score was captured once a week for week 64. Participants described their average LBP during the past 24 hours on a scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain), where higher scores indicated higher pain. Percentage of participants with reduction in LBPI of at least (>=) 30%, 50%, 70% and 90% at weeks 2, 4, 8, 12, 16, 24, 32, 40, 48 and 56 compared to baseline were classified as responders to LBPI and are reported here, participants (%) are reported more than once in categories specified.Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.Also, intent of study was to compare tanezumab Vs placebo for data up to & including W16 & comparisons of tanezumab Vs tramadol for data up to & including W56.
BPI-sf is a self-administered questionnaire developed to assess the severity of pain and pain interference on daily functions during 24 hours prior to evaluation. Severity of pain was measured based on questions 1 to 4 of pain at its 'worst', 'least', 'average' and 'right now'. For the Worst Pain item of the BPI-sf scale (11 point NRS scale; range: 0 [no pain] to 10 [pain as bad as you can imagine]), participants were asked to rate their pain by marking an "X" in one of the boxes that best described their pain at its worst, during 24 hours prior to evaluation, higher scores indicated greater pain severity. Question 5 (7-items) assessed level of pain interference on daily activities.Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
A Phase 3 Study of Tanezumab for Chronic Low Back Pain
mPRTI: self-administered questionnaire containing participant reported treatment impact assessment (to assess participant satisfaction),participant global preference assessment (to assess previous treatment and preference to continue using the investigational product) & participant willingness to use drug again assessment. To assess participants willingness to use drug again, participants responded using IRT on 5 point likert scale from 1-5, where, 1= yes, I would definitely want to use the same drug again, 2= I might want to use the same drug again, 3= I am not sure, 4= I might not want to use the same drug again, 5= no, I definitely would not want to use the same drug again. Higher scores indicate lesser willingness to use the investigational product. Pre-specified intent of study was to compare tanezumab Vs placebo for data up to & including W16 & comparisons of tanezumab Vs tramadol for data up to & including W56.
PGA of LBP was assessed by asking a question to participants: "Considering all the ways your low back pain affects you, how are you doing today?" Participants responded on a 5 point Likert scale ranging from 1-5, using IRT, where 1=very good (asymptomatic and no limitation of normal activities); 2=good (mild symptoms and no limitation of normal activities); 3=fair (moderate symptoms and limitation of some normal activities); 4=poor (severe symptoms and inability to carry out most normal activities); and 5=very poor (very severe symptoms which are intolerable and inability to carry out all normal activities). Higher scores indicated worsening of condition.
Average LBP was assessed on an 11-point NRS captured through an IRT. LBPI score was captured once a week for week 64. Participants described their average LBP during the past 24 hours on a scale ranging from 0 (no pain) to 10 (worst possible pain), where higher scores indicated higher pain.Percentage of participants with cumulative reduction (as percent) (greater than [>] 0%; >= 10, 20, 30, 40, 50, 60, 70, 80, 90 and equals to [=] 100 %) in LBPI from baseline to weeks 16, 24 and 56 were reported, participants (%) are reported more than once in categories specified.Missing data was imputed using mixed BOCF/LOCF.Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.Also, intent of study was to compare tanezumab Vs placebo for data up to & including W16 & comparisons of tanezumab Vs tramadol for data up to & including W56.
mPRTI : self-administered questionnaire containing participant reported treatment impact assessment (to assess participant satisfaction),participant global preference assessment (to assess previous treatment & preference to continue using investigational product) & participant willingness to use drug again assessment. To assess preference to continue using investigational product, participants responded using IRT on 5 point likert scale from 1-5, where, 1= yes, I definitely prefer drug that I am receiving now, 2= I have a slight preference for drug that I am receiving now, 3= I have no preference either way, 4= I have a slight preference for my previous treatment, 5= No, I definitely prefer my previous treatment. Higher scores indicate lesser preference to use investigational product. Pre-specified intent of study was to compare tanezumab Vs placebo for data up to & including W16 & comparisons of tanezumab Vs tramadol for data up to & including W56.
The RMDQ is a self-administered, widely used health status measure index of how well participants with LBP are able to function with regard to daily activities. It measures pain and function, using 24 items describing limitations to everyday life that can be caused by LBP. The total score of the RMDQ is the total number of items checked ranging from 0 (no disability) to 24 (maximum disability), where higher scores indicated greater disability. Pre-specified intent of study for efficacy data up to W16 was to analyze participants who received placebo from Day1 and then received tanezumab 5/10 mg at W16,together,in placebo arm.Data has been reported per four arms.
