BACKGROUND
What are clinical studies?
Clinical studies aim to answer specific questions about new or existing treatments, procedures, or
vaccines and involve patients with health conditions or healthy volunteers. Clinical studies happen
in several phases from phase 1 to 4.
This study was a phase 2. Phase 2 studies aim to find out if a new drug works and what side effects
people had when they took different doses. In this study, a new drug called ravulizumab was tested
in a small group of patients. If it is found to be safe, then it can be tested in a larger group.
What is paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria?
Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria, also called PNH, is a very rare, life-threatening, lifelong blood
disorder. In PNH, some or all of the red blood cells lack important protective proteins. Without
these protective proteins, the body’s natural defense system, also called the immune system,
destroys the red blood cells. This process is known as hemolysis.
Red blood cell missing Red blood cell Red blood cell
protective proteins attacked destroyed
For people living with PNH, hemolysis is always happening and can result in serious health problems.
During hemolysis, an enzyme called lactate dehydrogenase, or LDH, is released into the blood.
LDH levels can be measured by a blood test to know how much hemolysis is happening in the body.
What are the symptoms of PNH?
The most common symptoms of PNH include feeling tired, difficulty
swallowing, trouble concentrating or thinking, shortness of breath, stomach
pain, dark-colored urine, and, for men, difficulty keeping an erection.
The lack of healthy red blood cells, known as anemia or being anemic,
is a serious complication of PNH, which often results in patients needing
blood transfusions.
Life-threatening complications from PNH can include blood clots, kidney failure, and other
organ damage.
Protocol, ALXN1210-PNH-201 SPONSOR CONTACT INFORMATION:
Europe, 2015-002674-20 1-888-765-4747
© Certara USA, Inc. 2020. All rights reserved United States, NCT02605993 medinfo@alexion.com 2